03.07.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO, BOOKER CALL ON PRESIDENT TO AWARD SCIENTIFIC MEDALS March 7th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ), along with six additional Senators and 15 Representatives, urged the President to begin awarding the National Medal of Science and the National Medal of Technology and Innovation. President Trump has not awarded any National Medals during his presidency, while every previous president has done so since each Medal was established. “The National Medals celebrate our leadership in the sciences and technology,” the Members wrote. “You have stressed the importance of ensuring that young Americans enter science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Awarding National Medals is a step you alone can take, and so we urge you to do so.” The National Medal of Science and the National Medal of Technology are the highest U.S. government honors recognizing scientific achievement and contributions to the promotion of technology. The awards have gone to some of the greatest scientists and innovators since the awards’ inception, including Sandra Faber, who helped design the Hubble and Keck telescopes, Steve Jobs, Bill Gates, and many more. The full text of the letter can be found HERE. ###
03.07.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO STATEMENT ON THE HOUSE RESOLUTION CONDEMNING ANTI-SEMITISM AND ANTI-MUSLIM BIGOTRY March 7th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement on the House Resolution Condemning anti-Semitism: “I just received the text of the Resolution condemning anti-Semitism and anti-Muslim bigotry at my office. I’ve read it and encourage my constituents to read it as well. “Racism and prejudice in any form are unacceptable and this resolution makes clear that intolerance has no place in Congress or in our country. “I will vote for the resolution.” The full text of the resolution can be read HERE. ###
03.07.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO STATEMENT ON THE RESIGNATION OF FDA COMMISIONER DR. SCOTT GOTTLIEB March 7th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairwoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement on the resignation of FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb: “It is with regret that I learned that Dr. Scott Gottlieb is stepping down as Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration. He has served the public well by working diligently to protect the health of the American people. His leadership will be missed and I wish him my very best. He has my gratitude for his important service to the people of our country.” ###
03.05.2019	+ SHARE OVER 125 LOCAL GOVERNMENTS AND 130 PUBLIC UTILITIES IN 47 STATES VOICE SUPPORT FOR ESHOO BILL TO EMPOWER LOCAL 5G DEPLOYMENT March 5th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C.— 126 local government leaders and 132 public power utilities across 47 states endorsed Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo’s (D-CA) Accelerating Wireless Broadband Development by Empowering Local Communities Act of 2019. The bill overturns the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations limiting the ability of local governments to regulate the deployment of 5G wireless infrastructure. “The FCC allowed industry to write the regulations leading to a complete freezing out of local governments from having a say in how 5G infrastructure is deployed,” Eshoo said. “From New York City to San Jose, over 250 local governments and public utilities support H.R. 530 to reinstate local communities’ voices in 5G deployment. The benefits of 5G will be substantial, and I’m committed to making sure the gains made are equitable.” Support for Rep. Eshoo’s H.R. 530, the Accelerating Wireless Broadband Development by Empowering Local Communities Act of 2019, includes: 126 mayors, city councils, town councils, county executives, and boards of supervisors Representing 42 million Americans Including six of the ten most populous cities in the U.S. Including formal resolutions of support adopted by 10 local governments 132 public utilities and associations of public utilities Statewide associations in California, Florida, Virginia, and Nebraska National groups including the National League of Cities, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Association of Counties, and the American Public Power Association Background Last year the FCC adopted regulations limiting the abilities of cities and states to regulate small cell sites (e.g., pole attachments) needed for the deployment of 5G. The actions limit the type and amount of fees cities and states may charge, set “shot clocks” as low as 60 days for cities and states to authorize proposals, and limit non-fee requirements cities and states may institute. The regulations began taking effect on January 14, 2019. On January 14, 2019, Congresswoman Eshoo introduced H.R. 530, the Accelerating Wireless Broadband Development by Empowering Local Communities Act of 2019, to overturn the FCC’s regulations. A full list of supporters of Eshoo’s legislation can be found HERE, and the text of the legislation can be found HERE. ###
03.04.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO LAUNCHES 2019 CONGRESSIONAL ART COMPETITION IN CALIFORNIA’S 18TH DISTRICT March 4th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced today this year’s district-wide Congressional Art Competition to discover and celebrate talented high school artists and their work. “For over 30 years, the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged artistic talent among our youth,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’m proud to keep this tradition flourishing by launching this year’s competition in California’s 18th Congressional District.” About the Competition Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has partnered with Members of Congress to sponsor a nationwide high school visual art competition to recognize and encourage artistic talent around the country. To date, more than 650,000 high school students have participated in the Congressional Art Competition across the United States. All high school students from throughout the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate. Students can participate by submitting their works of art to Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by 5 p.m. PST on Friday, April 12th. A local reception will be held to announce the winner and honor all participants at a later date. The winning artist whose work is chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists has the honor of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of the nation’s Capitol for one year. He or she will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with other talented young artists at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found HERE on Rep. Eshoo’s website. ###
03.01.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO’S BIPARTISAN LEGISLATION TO PROTECT CONSUMERS FROM UNWANTED ROBOCALLS AND TEXTS March 1st, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) reintroduced H.R. 1421, the Help Americans Never Get Unwanted Phone calls (HANGUP) Act, to protect anyone with a federally-backed loan (student loans, mortgages, veteran loans, farming loans) from unwanted robocalls and texts. Last year, Americans received over 26 billion robocalls, which is up 46% from the year before. Too many of these were from debt collectors. “The American people are fed up with being harassed by robocalls and texts,” said Rep. Eshoo. “What Congress had instituted to protect consumers was rolled back in 2015, subjecting consumers to these incessant barrages. The bipartisan HANGUP Act cracks down on the unacceptable 26 billion robocalls made last year and stops debt collectors from going after Americans who have difficulty paying their federal student loans.” Eshoo’s bipartisan legislation repeals a provision in the Budget Act of 2015 that allows debt collectors to robocall or text without consent to those who have a debt owed or guaranteed by the federal government. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) provided statutory protection to consumers until 2015. Text of the legislation can be found here. ###
02.14.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO, MARKEY INTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO CRACK DOWN ON SURPRISE TELEPHONE, CABLE, AND INTERNET FEES February 14th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced the Truth-In-Billing, Remedies, and User Empowerment over Fees (‘TRUE Fees’) Act, legislation that requires phone, cable and Internet providers to include all charges in the prices they advertise for services. The legislation also provides remedies for consumers when they have been wrongfully charged. “Customers deserve to know exactly what they’re paying for in their monthly cable and Internet service bills. All too often they’re sold a service for one price, only to be blindsided by higher bills at the end of the month from tacked on ‘service’ or ‘administrative’ fees,” Rep. Eshoo said. “These fees add up to hundreds of millions of dollars each year for cable and Internet providers at the expense of consumers who have little to no option than to pay up. The TRUE Fees Act is commonsense legislation that requires companies to be transparent about their prices and empowers consumers to take action if they’ve been taken for a ride.” “For too long customers have been surprised each month to find that their cable, phone and internet bills are much higher than the advertised price. The TRUE Fees Act would put an end to these advertising practices that only confuse consumers about the true costs. Consumers also should not be suddenly saddled with higher prices, and this bill not only requires providers to give consumers notice about any price increase but also to allow consumers to then end a contract without incurring a costly termination fee,” Senator Edward J. Markey said. “If phone, cable and internet companies won’t be fully transparent with consumers, then Congress should act. I thank Congresswoman Eshoo for her leadership on the TRUE Fees Act, and look forward to working with all of my colleagues as this legislation moves forward.” “Consumers deserve a fair shake when it comes to understanding the costs of the services they sign up for. So kudos to Rep. Eshoo and Sen. Markey for their work to make bills simpler and keep consumers better informed.” – FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel “When consumers sign up for phone, cable, or internet access service, they should know with certainty then and there what they are expected to pay each month. Unfortunately, these days, surprise bills and confusing fees are not uncommon. I applaud Sen. Markey and Rep. Eshoo for fighting for greater transparency in bills and advertising.” – FCC Commissioner Geoffrey Starks “Congresswoman Eshoo and Senator Markey’s TRUE Fees Act helps protect consumer budgets from surprise hidden or misleading fees on their phone, cable, and internet bills,” said Olivia Wein, staff attorney at the National Consumer Law Center. “Low-income consumers face enough challenges in paying for essential communications services. Surprise fees and confusing billing practices only make it that much harder on fragile family budgets,” Wein noted. “This legislation is simple, straightforward, and effective. The TRUE Fees Act would address the out-of-control fee problem in the telecommunications marketplace and deliver much-needed transparency for cable and internet providers’ unnecessarily-complicated billing practices,” said Jonathan Schwantes, senior policy counsel for Consumer Reports. “We’ve heard from more than 115,000 consumers who’ve had enough of cable and internet providers’ ever increasing bills riddled with confusing, mandatory fees buried in the fine print. We thank Senator Markey and Representative Eshoo for their leadership to address this growing fee problem and ensure consumer budgets aren’t busted by unexpected fees. We urge their colleagues in Congress to support and move this bill forward.” “Consumers should be able to see and compare the real cost of communications services, not be fooled by hidden fees,” said Susan Grant. Director of Consumer Protection and Privacy, Consumer Federation of America. “Congresswoman Eshoo and Senator Markey have taken an important step toward this goal by introducing the TRUE Fees Act.” “Below-the-line fees are one of the most persistent and universal frustrations with communications services,” said John Bergmayer, Senior Counsel at Public Knowledge. “This bill is a great way to address them. With this bill, Rep. Eshoo and Sen. Markey are empowering consumers to make smarter choices by giving subscribers the information they need to decide what service to buy.” Background The TRUE Fees Act requires phone, cable, and internet providers to include fees, charges, and surcharges in the prices they advertise for service; allows customers to end their contract without early termination fees if their provider increases prices; prevents hikes on equipment fees unless providers improve equipment; and prohibits forced arbitration clauses for wrongful billing errors. The House Legislation is co-sponsored Reps. Mark Takano, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Tim Ryan, Earl Blumenauer, Jamie Raskin, Joe Courtney, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Janice D. Schakowsky, and Mike Thompson. The Senate legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Tina Smith (D-Minn.). The TRUE Fees Act has been endorsed by the National Consumer Law Center, on behalf of its low-income clients; Consumer Reports; Consumer Federation of America; and Public Knowledge. A copy of the legislation can be found here. ###
02.06.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO HOLDS HEARING ON IMPACTS OF HARMFUL LAWSUIT CHALLENGING THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT. ANNOUNCES HEARING NEXT WEEK TO EXAMINE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S SABOTAGE OF THE ACA February 6th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Chairwoman of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, held the subcommittee’s first hearing of the 116th Congress to examine the impacts of the Texas v. United States court case on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and on Americans with pre-existing conditions. “Health care was the single most important issue to voters in the 2018 election, yet the Affordable Care Act is still under attack nearly ten years after the landmark bill was signed into law,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The stakes in Texas vs. United States couldn’t be higher. If the ACA is struck down, 130 million Americans with pre-existing conditions could be denied coverage or charged higher rates; 13 million low-income Americans will lose coverage under the expansion of Medicaid; and private insurance plans will no longer be required to provide the essential benefits of mental health care, emergency services, and maternity and newborn care. This hearing helps the American people better understand what’s at stake if the ACA is struck down and lays the groundwork for the Democratic House to defend and strengthen the ACA.” Chairwoman Eshoo also announced a legislative hearing next week on three bills that will begin to reverse the Trump Administration’s sabotage of the ACA. “Next week the subcommittee will hold a legislative hearing on proposals to reverse the Trump Administration’s expansion of junk insurance plans, also known as short-term limited duration insurance plans. The hearing will also examine legislation to restore outreach and enrollment funding that has been slashed by the Trump Administration as well as legislation to reverse the Trump Administration’s guidance on 1332 waivers that would allow states to undermine the ACA’s protections for pre-existing conditions and harm patients’ access to care.” Background Last February, 20 Attorneys General and Governors sued the federal government, challenging the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act following the repeal of the individual mandate in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. In December, a federal judge declared the entire ACA unconstitutional in Texas v. United States. The ruling was appealed by 20 Attorneys General, led by California’s Xavier Beccera, and the judge issued a stay while the appeal is pending. A copy of Chairwoman Eshoo’s opening statement can be found here. # # #
01.31.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO, PASCRELL HAIL UPCOMING HEARING ON TRUMP TAX RETURNS LEGISLATION January 31st, 2019 WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09) issued a joint statement following the announcement by the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight that it will hold a hearing on February 7th to assess their legislation, H.R. 273, the Presidential Tax Transparency Act. The legislation requires sitting presidents and vice presidents, and candidates for the presidency and vice-presidency of major parties, to publicly disclose their 10 most recent federal income tax returns. “Next week’s hearing on the Presidential Tax Transparency Act by the House Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight is a welcome sign that transparency remains a central focus of our new Congress,” said Reps. Eshoo and Pascrell. “Before 2016, presidential candidates routinely disclosed their tax returns. Donald Trump refused to clear that low bar, and as a result the American people remain in the dark about the extent of his financial entanglements and potential conflicts of interest. We look forward to using this first hearing to discuss the critical importance of full tax disclosure for any man or woman seeking the presidency and how our Presidential Tax Transparency Act would create permanent sunlight for our nation.” According to the Tax History Project, every president since 1976 has released their tax returns while in office, but this practice is not required by current law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act requires sitting presidents and vice presidents, and candidates for the presidency and vice-presidency of major parties, to submit their 10 most recent federal income tax returns to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and make them available to the public. “Major parties” are defined in the tax code as parties whose candidate received more than 25 percent of the popular vote in the previous presidential election. If a president or candidate fails to disclose their tax returns, the IRS is required to provide redacted copies to the FEC for public disclosure. # # #
01.15.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO ELECTED CHAIR OF HOUSE HEALTH SUBCOMMITTEE January 15th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) released the following statement after Democratic Members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee voted to elect her to chair the Health Subcommittee: “The 2018 midterm elections were won on the issue of health care and the American people now expect us to deliver. I’m grateful to my colleagues for choosing me to help lead the effort in the House to strengthen the Affordable Care Act, reduce the price of prescription drugs, and continue to make critically important investments in the National Institutes of Health.” Rep. Eshoo was elected to the Energy and Commerce Committee in 1995, and has served on the Health Subcommittee for 14 of her 24 years on the Committee. Of the 41 bills she has authored that have been signed into law by four presidents, more than half have been health related. The Energy and Commerce Committee is the oldest continuous standing committee in the U.S. House of Representatives. It was originally established in 1795 to regulate interstate and foreign commerce. Today, the Committee has the broadest jurisdiction of any authorizing committee in Congress. # # #
01.15.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO INTRODUCES LEGISLATION TO RESTORE LOCAL CONTROL IN DEPLOYMENT OF 5G January 15th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) introduced H.R. 530, the Accelerating Wireless Broadband Development by Empowering Local Communities Act of 2019, legislation to overturn Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulations limiting the ability of local governments to regulate the deployment of 5G wireless infrastructure. “Having served in local government for a decade on the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors, I understand and respect the important role that state and local governments play in protecting the welfare of their residents,” said Rep. Eshoo. “5G is essential for our country’s communications network and economy, but it must be deployed responsibly and equitably. The FCC let industry write these regulations without sufficient input from local leaders. This has led to regulations that restrict cities from requiring carriers to meet the needs of communities in which they want to operate.” “The FCC forced Congress to act by failing to listen to reasonable input from communities across the country, cowering to industry interests, and failing to put the public interests first. This legislation will preserve the ability of local communities to negotiate fair, market-based broadband deployment agreements and close the digital divide that exists for 34 million low-income and rural Americans,” said Sam Liccardo, Mayor of San Jose. “We want to thank Rep. Eshoo for her leadership on this issue.” “We applaud Congresswoman Eshoo for her leadership on behalf of local governments,” said Clarence Anthony, CEO and Executive Director of the National League of Cities. “Cities, towns and villages are eager to welcome new technologies like 5G, but must retain the authority to protect the diverse needs of residents and communities. Federal agencies should work more closely with local leaders to understand those needs, which the FCC’s actions failed to do.” “Counties are committed to ensuring that all residents have access to affordable broadband while timely 5G facilities and services are deployed. As we achieve these goals, we must also fulfill our responsibilities as trustees of public property and rights-of-way, without adding unnecessary red tape,” said Matthew Chase, Executive Director of the National Association of Counties. “We thank Representative Eshoo for introducing a bill that preserves the role of counties and other local governments as true partners in advancing 5G technology everywhere.” “We welcome Congresswoman Eshoo’s effort to set aside the Federal Communications Commission’s actions that unnecessarily benefit one industry at the expense of our communities,” said Nancy L. Werner, General Counsel of the National Association of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors. “They do nothing to ensure that all communities—rich, poor, urban, rural, and everything in between—will see the benefits of increased broadband deployment. Local governments have the ultimate responsibility for safeguarding their communities.” Background On August 2, 2018 and September 26, 2018, the FCC adopted regulations limiting the abilities of cities and states to regulate small cell sites (e.g., pole attachments) needed for the deployment of 5G. The actions limit the type and amount of fees cities and states may charge, set “shot clocks” as low as 60 days for cities and states to authorize proposals, and limit non-fee requirements cities and states may institute. The regulations began taking effect on January 14, 2019. The City of San Jose is leading a coalition of nearly 100 cities, towns, counties, and associations of localities in suing the FCC arguing that the agency lacks the statutory authority to issue such regulations. The Cities of Burlingame, San Bruno, and San Francisco have also joined the City of San Jose in its lawsuit. Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-14) joined Rep. Eshoo as a cosponsor of the bill. # # #
01.09.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO, MCEACHIN REINTRODUCE LEGISLATION TO MAKE ELECTION DAY A FEDERAL HOLIDAY January 9th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and A. Donald McEachin (D-VA) reintroduced the Election Day Holiday Act, legislation that will make Election Day a federal holiday. The right to vote is fundamental in our democracy, yet U.S. voter turnout is consistently among the lowest of all established democracies around the world. A 2014 study found that among those who didn’t vote, 35 percent didn’t have time to do so because of work or school. The Election Holiday Act makes Election Day a federal holiday so more Americans have the time they need to vote and participate in our democracy. “People should not be forced to choose between their job or family and exercising their right to vote.” Rep. Eshoo said. “At a time when our democracy needs to be strengthened, and when many states are restricting access to the ballot box, it’s more important than ever for Congress to reaffirm our commitment to the most fundamental aspect of democracy, the right to vote. Strong voter turnout is essential to a healthy democracy, and this legislation ensures more voices are heard in the political process.” “I am proud to introduce the Election Day Holiday Act again this Congress with Congresswoman Eshoo to require that our country treats Election Day as a holiday. We must do all we can to remove barriers to the ballot box. I fought for voters’ rights by introducing similar legislation during my time as a member of Virginia’s General Assembly,” said Congressman Donald McEachin. “The right to vote is sacred and should be protected. Our democracy depends on this fundamental principle.” Reps. Eshoo and McEachin first introduced the Election Day Holiday Act in the 115th Congress with 30 cosponsors. The Election Day Holiday Act is also included in H.R. 1, the For the People Act, the sweeping reform and anti-corruption package introduced by House Democrats to restore our democracy and return political power to the American people. ###
01.09.2019	+ SHARE ESHOO, PASCRELL INTRODUCE LEGISLATION REQUIRING PRESIDENTS, PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES TO RELEASE TAX RETURNS January 9th, 2019 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. (NJ-09) introduced the Presidential Tax Transparency Act, legislation requiring sitting presidents and vice presidents, and candidates for the presidency and vice-presidency of major parties, to publicly disclose their 10 most recent federal income tax returns. “The American people expect those who seek or hold the highest office in the land to be open and transparent about their tax returns,” Congresswoman Anna Eshoo said. “Tax returns contain vital information for voters and the public, including whether an individual has paid any taxes; whether they made charitable donations; and whether they took advantage of tax loopholes or offshore tax shelters. Since the Watergate era, and up to the 2016 Presidential election, presidents and candidates have publicly disclosed their tax returns voluntarily but this bipartisan practice has never been required by law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act, which I first introduced during the 2016 presidential race, makes this important precedent the law of the land.” “While we continue to work to expose Donald Trump’s tax returns to vital congressional sunlight, this legislation will codify that future candidates cannot repeat Trump’s cover-up,” said Congressman Bill Pascrell, Jr. “Being able to scrutinize the tax returns of a man or woman seeking to occupy the most powerful position on earth is a low bar, and one that candidates long abided by until 2016. Americans have a right to know if their President is a crook. Imposing this requirement will ensure that transparency and ethical behavior are minimum requirements for any presidential candidate.” Background According to the Tax History Project, every president since 1976 has released their tax returns while in office, but this practice is not required by current law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act requires sitting presidents and vice presidents, and candidates for the presidency and vice-presidency of major parties, to submit their 10 most recent federal income tax returns to the Federal Election Commission (FEC) and make them available to the public. “Major parties” are defined in the tax code as parties whose candidate received more than 25 percent of the popular vote in the previous presidential election. If a president or candidate fails to disclose their tax returns, the IRS is required to provide redacted copies to the FEC for public disclosure. Congresswoman Eshoo introduced similar legislation in the 114th and 115th Congresses. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act is also included in H.R. 1, the For the People Act, the sweeping reform and anti-corruption package introduced by House Democrats to restore our democracy and return political power to the American people. # # #
12.16.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Departure of Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke December 16th, 2018 Palo Alto, CA – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo released the following statement after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke announced he will leave the administration at the end of the year: “Few cabinet secretaries have violated the public trust and used their office for such undisguised personal gain as Secretary Zinke. During his toxic tenure at the Department of the Interior, he has ignored his responsibilities to act in the public interest and shown he is willing to sell out our nation’s public lands and natural resources to the highest bidder. “The election of a democratic majority in the House sent a clear message to the Trump Administration that the business-as-usual dealings of the most corrupt cabinet in American history will no longer be tolerated. “Yesterday’s announcement is welcome news for our environment and the principle of public accountability in government. “Good riddance.” ###
12.15.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Federal Court Decision Declaring the Affordable Care Act Unconstitutional December 15th, 2018 Palo Alto, CA – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo released the following statement after a federal district court decision in Texas v. U.S. declared the Affordable Care Act unconstitutional: “Judge O’Connor’s ruling is based on politics not the law, and is another example of Republican’s unrelenting efforts to undermine the Affordable Care Act and strip protections from the more than 130 million Americans who have preexisting health conditions. “The American people spoke loudly and clearly on November 6th. They demanded that no one be discriminated against because they have a preexisting condition, and poll after poll has demonstrated overwhelming bipartisan support of the American people. “I will continue to defend the Affordable Care in the next Congress to ensure that the 130 million Americans who are protected today will retain this benefit, and help more to be insured. The Affordable Care Act remains the health insurance coverage for Members of Congress and their families. If it’s good enough for them, the law should remain in place for everyone else.” ###
12.15.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Speier, Panetta Release Further Updated FAA Initiative Response to Address Aircraft Noise Concerns of the Constituents of Congressional Districts 14, 18 and 20 December 15th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. —Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) released a further updated version of the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) response to recommendations made by the San Francisco Airport/Community Roundtable and the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals. “The Federal Aviation Administration released their updated response to the collective recommendations of the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals and the San Francisco International Airport/Community Roundtable. These two bodies developed 104 consensus-based recommendations and sub-recommendations, amounting to a total of 203 items which the FAA has worked to address. The FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns of Santa Cruz/Santa Clara/San Mateo/San Francisco Counties Further Update on Phase Two can be viewed here. ###
12.13.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Jones Introduce Legislation Prohibiting Military Operations Against Iran Without Congressional Consent December 13th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Walter Jones (R-NC) introduced the Prevention of Unconstitutional War with Iran Act, legislation prohibiting the use of any funds for military operations in or against Iran without Congressional authorization. The legislation follows continued threats from the President to take military action against Iran after withdrawing from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or the Iran Nuclear Agreement. The Prevention of Unconstitutional War with Iran Act will ensure any decision to take military action against Iran must first be authorized by Congress which has the sole authority to declare war under Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution. “The President’s decision to walk away from the JCPOA is an abdication of U.S. global leadership and his continued threats to wage war against Iran leaves our country without any clear strategy for preventing a nuclear-armed Iran from moving forward,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Military action should only be used as a measure of last resort and this legislation will ensure that any decision to do so is debated and considered by Congress in front of the American people.” “J Street applauds Representative Anna Eshoo and her colleagues for their leadership on this important bill. As the current Administration continues to violate the JCPOA and dangerously escalates tensions with Iran, now is the time for Congress to step in and remind President Trump that he does not have the authority to launch another war of choice in the Middle East,” said J Street, the political home for pro-Israel pro-peace Americans. ###
12.11.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lance Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Infant Health to Become Law December 11th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today bipartisan legislation authored by Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Congressman Leonard Lance (R-NJ) to reduce infant deaths related to premature births passed the House of Representatives and will now be sent to the President for his signature. S. 3029, the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Reauthorization Act, will specifically expand research, education and intervention activities aimed at preventing premature births. “Every year in the U.S., ten percent of babies are born prematurely, putting them and their mothers at an increased risk of complicated health problems,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Since shepherding this legislation into law in 2006, the PREEMIE Act has helped researchers and doctors identify the causes of premature births and work to prevent them. The number of preterm births decreased from 2007 to 2014, but they’ve begun to rise again. I look forward to the President signing this reauthorization into law to ensure that every child has a healthy start to life.” “There may be no greater calling than to help infants thrive in the early days of life. By working together and getting this legislation signed into law we can continue to reduce premature birth rates and confront childhood disabilities that many young people face. This is good and important work and the kind of positive difference federal efforts can make in the lives of many,” said Rep. Lance. “We welcome today’s vote on the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act and thank Congresswoman Eshoo and Congressman Lance for their strong leadership in ensuring babies in this country are born strong and healthy,” said March of Dimes President Stacey D. Stewart. “After a decade of decline, the preterm birth rate has risen the past three years, which is unacceptable for a country with our vast resources. This bill will go a long way in reducing the number of babies that are being born too sick and too soon.” This legislation reauthorizes the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) research and data collection on infants born prematurely and programs at the Health Resources and Services Administration to improve the treatment and outcome of infants born prematurely. These programs include grants to help doctors and the public understand the potential risk factors for having a preterm baby, such as smoking, and provides grants to screen and treat expectant mothers for substance use disorders, including opioid use disorders. This reauthorization also includes updated language to incorporate maternal health. ###
12.03.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th Congressional District App Challenge Winner December 3rd, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced the winner of the 2018 Congressional App Challenge, Anna Quinlan of Menlo Atherton School. Her App, A Smarter Insulin Pump assists diabetics with maintaining normal blood glucose levels 24/7. While other products exist on the market to track and notify, A Smarter Insulin Pump integrates more personalized data such as food intake and notification tools to make it easier to manage the symptoms of diabetes. “Anna Quinlan developed this innovative app after hearing the complaints of a diabetic friend whose insulin pump didn’t alert her of her low glucose levels. This app is practical and will help so many manage their diabetes. Bravo to Anna Quinlan and every participant who demonstrated great knowhow, tech savvy and enormous potential,” said Rep. Eshoo. About the Congressional App Challenge Congresswoman Eshoo is a founding Co-Chair of the Congressional App Challenge. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this bipartisan competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all participating congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education fields. Apps are judged based on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 18th Congressional District was chosen by an independent panel of expert judges. Each winner of the Congressional App Challenge will receive $250 in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Credits and their App will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building and on House.gov for a year. ###
12.01.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Passing of President George H.W. Bush December 1st, 2018 Palo Alto, CA – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo released the following statement on the death of President George H.W. Bush, who passed away at the age of 94: “Last night our country lost one of the greatest of patriots, President George Herbert Walker Bush. His entire life was spent in service to our country, first as a fighter pilot in World War II; as a Member of Congress; as Ambassador to China; as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations; as Chairman of the Republican National Committee; as Director of the CIA; as Vice President; and as the 41st President of the United States. “President Bush was a humble man and a statesman. His lifelong values were his faith, his family and his country. “He is now reunited with the great love of his life, Barbara Pierce Bush, and their daughter Robin. “President Bush’s legacy is a great one and how he lived his life will always stand as a model for generations to come. “On behalf of those I am so privileged to represent, we offer our condolences to the entire Bush family and thank them for sharing their father, grandfather and great-grandfather with the country he so loved and served with dignity, kindness and goodness.” ###
11.27.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Smith Bill Providing Relief to Genocide Victims in Iraq and Syria to Become Law November 27th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, legislation sponsored by Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ) to provide emergency relief to victims of the ISIS genocide in Iraq and Syria passed the House of Representatives and will now be sent to the President for his signature. H.R. 390, the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act requires the U.S. government to direct humanitarian aid to entities assisting displaced religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria targeted for genocide by ISIS. The legislation also includes important provisions that will help the international community document the crimes against humanity that have been committed by ISIS, hold the perpetrators accountable and prevent another genocide from occurring. “Tens of thousands of religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria were targeted for genocide by ISIS between 2014 and 2017,” Rep. Eshoo said. “As survivors return to their homes and begin rebuilding their communities, the United States government must make it a priority to help families in need of assistance now, while ensuring the perpetrators of these crimes against humanity are held accountable. H.R. 390 will aid in these efforts and send a powerful message to these communities that we haven’t forgotten them. I thank Chairman Smith for his passionate leadership on this issue and I look forward to the President swiftly signing this legislation into law.” “When genocide or other atrocity crimes are perpetrated, the United States should direct humanitarian, stabilization, and recovery aid to enable these people to survive–especially when they are minorities whose existence as a people is at-risk,” Rep. Smith stated on the House Floor before the vote. “HR 390 would ensure our actions match our words.” H.R. 390 is supported by various groups, including the Knights of Columbus, Family Research Council, U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission (Southern Baptist Convention), In Defense of Christians, 21st Century Wilberforce Initiative, ADF International, Baylor University, Commission for International Justice and Accountability, Aid the Church in Need USA, Open Doors, Chaldean Assyrian Syriac Business Alliance, A Demand for Action, Yezidi Human Rights Organization International, Religious Freedom Institute, Center for Religious Freedom (Hudson Institute), Christian Solidarity Worldwide, Syrian Accountability Project, Genocide Watch, Civitas Maxima, Iraq Foundation, EPIC, Community of Sant’Egidio and International Christian Concern. ###
11.16.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lofgren Introduce Legislation to Protect Work Authorization for Highly Skilled Immigrants November 16th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) introduced the H-4 Employment Protection Act, legislation prohibiting the Trump Administration from revoking an Obama-era rule that extends work authorization to the spouses of H-1B visa holders, including thousands of immigrants in Silicon Valley. The current Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regulations allow certain H-4 dependent spouses of H-1B visa holders who are stuck in green card backlogs to obtain employment authorization, allowing them to pursue their own professional goals and contribute to the U.S. economy. Many H-4 visa holders are highly skilled professionals, and DHS extended eligibility for employment authorization to them in recognition of their potential economic contribution, as well as the economic hardship facing the families of many H1-B workers waiting for their green cards—particularly those who cannot live in high-cost areas on a single income. Since the rule was implemented, over 100,000 workers, mainly women, have received employment authorization, improving U.S. competitiveness lessening the economic burden on thousands of H-1B workers and their families. The H-4 Employment Protection Act prohibits the Trump Administration from revoking this important rule, which it is expected to do by the end of the year. “Protecting work authorization for these H-4 visa holders is a matter of both economic fairness and family unity,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Eliminating this benefit would create a painful choice for many immigrants to either split up their families or return to their home countries and use their talents to compete against American businesses.” “These are American citizens-in-waiting, stuck in line for their number to come up,” Rep. Lofgren said. “The Trump Administration believes they should sit on their hands and do nothing, even though many are accomplished, qualified, and highly-skilled. Prohibiting H-1b dependent spouses from working is of no benefit to our country, and if allowed to move forward, many of these families that can contribute so much to our workforce will simply move to countries with a more sensible approach to immigration. This much needed bill will block the Trump Administration from needlessly harming our economy and the lives of skilled immigrant families.” In March 2018, Reps. Eshoo and Lofgren led 13 Members of Congress in writing to DHS Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, urging her to reconsider DHS’s proposal to revoke eligibility for employment authorization to H-4 dependent spouses. ###
11.16.2018	+ SHARE Anna’s Recommended Reading: How to protect yourself and your home from wildfire smoke November 16th, 2018 San Jose Mercury News How to protect yourself and your home from wildfire smoke Rose Meily How to protect yourself and your home from wildfire smoke Many families have been impacted by the Camp, Woolsey and Hill fires, as firefighters struggle to contain them. The Camp fire, which has been proclaimed the most destructive fire in California history, has already claimed more than 40 lives, and that number is expected to rise. More than 6,400 homes have been destroyed. The fires are affecting Bay Area residents who, due to the smoke from the fires, have been under air quality alerts for the past week. “Our hearts go out to the victims of the fires. We have learned that many in our Realtor family are among the thousands of residents who have lost their homes,” said Bill Moody, president of the Silicon Valley Association of Realtors. Moody said the California Association of Realtors has a Disaster Relief Fund to help members of its Realtor family, staff and association members who have incurred losses due to the wildfires. C.A.R. has also sent information to Realtor members on how they can help those affected by the fire. Moody called on consumers to take steps to protect themselves from the wildfire smoke. “Here in the Bay Area, the air quality has been very poor and it is affecting the health of many residents. Please heed the air quality alerts issued by the Bay Area Air District, as breathing the unhealthy air can be dangerous.” said Moody. “Older adults and children whose lungs are still developing, and people who have heart or lung diseases or asthma are at higher risk from wildfire smoke. Consult your health care provider right away if you are having breathing problems.” The Silicon Valley Association of Realtors shares the following tips from various agencies, including the Center for Disease Control and Protection and the Environmental Protection Agency, to protect consumers and their home from wildfire smoke. Pay attention to air quality alerts. Stay informed by visiting www.sparetheair.org, or better yet, sign up for Spare the Air Text Alerts by texting the word “START” to the number 817-57. You can also visit https://airnow.gov/, or download an air quality app. Stay indoors with windows and doors closed. Now is not the time to do outdoor activities, like mowing, trimming bushes, or running. Protect yourself from smoke. If you need to be outside, do not use a dust mask or bandana; instead, use a clean N95 mask or greater that fits snugly on your face. Run the air conditioner. Keep your air conditioner’s fresh-air intake closed and make sure your air filter is clean. If you do not have an air conditioner and it is too warm to stay inside with the windows closed, seek shelter elsewhere. Do not add to indoor or outdoor air pollution. Do not burn candles or use gas, propane, wood-burning stoves, fireplaces, or aerosol sprays. Do not fry or broil meat, smoke tobacco products, or vacuum. It is illegal for Bay Area residents and businesses to use their fireplaces, wood stoves, pellet stoves, outdoor fire pits or any other wood-burning devices during a Spare the Air Alert. Create a clean air room. Designate a room in your home which has few windows. Set up a portable air cleaner there to reduce indoor air pollution. Take it easy. Avoiding strenuous activities will help reduce the smoke you inhale. Reduce smoke in your vehicle. When on the road, close your car windows and vents. Run the air conditioner in recirculate mode. Moody also advises residents to visit the Santa Clara County Fire Department website at www.sccfd.org/rsg and learn about wildfire safety measures. “You can never be sure about the future. We all should take preventive measures to protect our home and family from a wildfire,” said Moody.
11.09.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Bid to Chair Health Subcommittee at Energy and Commerce November 9th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — In a letter to her colleagues today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced that she is seeking their support to serve as the Chair of the Health Subcommittee of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Eshoo was first elected to Congress in 1992 on a platform of health care priorities, and of the 40 bills Eshoo has authored and been signed into law by three presidents, more than half are health care related. “The 2018 midterm elections were won on the issue of health care and the American people now expect us to deliver,” Rep. Eshoo wrote. Eshoo will work to advance issues that are most important to the American people, including: strengthening the Affordable Care Act; protecting those with preexisting conditions; drug pricing; strengthening Medicare and Medicaid; lowering health care costs for all Americans; maintaining investments in biomedical research and development; and advancing consumer protections in health insurance. Rep. Eshoo has served on the Energy and Commerce Committee since 1995; served as the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee from 2011 to 2017; and as a member of the Health Subcommittee for 14 years. The full text of Rep. Eshoo’s announcement letter is available below. November 9, 2018 Dear Energy and Commerce Committee Colleague: It’s a privilege to serve with you as a Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. As we begin to prepare for a new Congress, I’m writing to seek your support to serve as Chair of the Health Subcommittee in the 116th Congress. As you know, due to the retirement of our friend Gene Green, the leadership position is now open. In this leadership role, I will always seek your valuable input so we’re a real team, working to strengthen our health care system, protect consumers, and develop innovative solutions to make health care more affordable and accessible. I’m most grateful to Ranking Member Pallone for his support of my candidacy, and now I ask for yours. I was first elected to Congress in 1992 on a platform of health care priorities following a decade of service on the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors. As President of the Board, I crafted the Health Plan of San Mateo County, the second county organized health system created in the State of California and one of the oldest in the nation. I joined the Energy and Commerce Committee in my second term in 1995, and have served on the Health Subcommittee for 14 of my 24 years on E&C. Of the 40 bills I’ve authored that have been signed into law by three presidents, more than half have been health care related. I think my bipartisan accomplishments demonstrate the ability to achieve results and reflect a clear vision for America’s future across biotechnology; women’s health; health insurance reforms; pancreatic cancer; pediatric health; medical device reform and public health security. The 2018 midterm elections were won on the issue of health care and the American people now expect us to deliver. The House Democratic Caucus outlined an ambitious agenda in our “For The People” platform to ensure our health care system meets the needs of all Americans. This agenda and the important input of the Members of the E&C Committee will guide my work as Chair of the Health Subcommittee including: tackling drug pricing by examining the entire drug supply chain and focusing on safety, affordability and innovation; working to strengthen the Affordable Care Act by protecting those with preexisting conditions; strengthening Medicare and Medicaid; lowering health care costs for all Americans; maintaining investments in biomedical research and development; and advancing consumer protections for medical products. As we begin a new Congress in the Majority, I’d be grateful and proud to lead the Health Subcommittee, working with you to ensure that we are productive on the issues that are most important to the American people. I welcome your suggestions and questions, and I’d be honored to have your support. With every gratitude, Anna G. Eshoo Member of Congress
10.01.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Passage of Net Neutrality Legislation in California October 1st, 2018 PALO ALTO, CA — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after California Governor Jerry Brown signed into law SB 822, legislation to enact the strongest Net Neutrality protections in the country: “Bravo to Governor Brown and the lawmakers in my home state for working tirelessly to restore strong Net Neutrality protections in California. A free and open Internet is essential to prosperity and improving the quality of life for all Americans, and this law ensures that California’s online ecosystem can continue to thrive.” “It’s now time for the rest of the country to follow California’s lead. The void created by the FCC when the Commission walked away from net neutrality is vast and we’ve already witnessed examples of some of the worst practices that can take place without clear Net Neutrality laws, including the throttling of Santa Clara County Fire’s data services during the largest fire in California history. I’m confident the FCC’s repeal of Net Neutrality last year will ultimately be overturned by the D.C. Circuit, but in the meantime, every single state should pass legislation similar to California’s to protect the free and open Internet.” ###
09.28.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Increase Transparency of Telephone, Cable and Internet Fees September 28th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) introduced the Truth-In-Billing, Remedies, and User Empowerment over Fees (‘TRUE Fees’) Act, legislation that requires phone, cable and Internet providers to include all charges in the prices they advertise for service, and provides remedies for consumers when they have been wrongfully charged. The TRUE Fees Act gives consumers more information about what they’re being charged, requires phone, cable and Internet providers to notify consumers when their prices go up, and gives consumers options to get out of their contract if they think their provider is taking advantage of them without having to pay extra charges to switch services. “Customers deserve to know exactly what they’re paying for when it comes to monthly cable and Internet service bills. Today, they’re sold a service for one price, only to be blindsided by higher bills at the end of the month from tacked on ‘service’ or ‘administrative’ fees,” Rep. Eshoo said. “These ‘below-the-line’ fees add up to hundreds of millions of dollars each year for cable and Internet service providers at the expense of consumers who have little to no option than to pay up. The TRUE Fees Act is commonsense legislation that brings transparency to consumers and empowers them when it comes to phone, cable and Internet fees.” Background Specifically, the True Fees Act requires cable and Internet providers to include all charges in the prices they advertise for service; allows customers to end their contract without early termination fees if the provider increases fees during the term of the contract; prevents arbitrary price hikes on equipment fees unless there is actually an improvement made to the equipment; and prohibits forced arbitration clauses for wrongful billing errors. ###
09.25.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Brooks Legislation Passes Full House September 25th, 2018 ‘PAHPA’ Combats Biodefense Threats WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today the House passed the bipartisan legislation of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Susan Brooks (R-IN) along with Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) to strengthen the country’s existing preparedness and response programs. H.R. 6378, the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act (PAHPA) ensures that our nation is prepared to respond to a wide range of public health emergencies, whether man-made or occurring through a natural disaster or infectious disease. “The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act that the House overwhelmingly passed today is critical to our national security. The legislation updates the original PAHPA by directing federal agencies to respond to new and emerging threats to strengthen our nation’s existing preparedness and response programs. The reauthorization meets the challenges of today and the future,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I applaud today’s passage in the House and I look forward to the Senate swiftly considering PAHPA so that it can be signed into law before September 30th.” “It has been 17 years since anthrax attacks infected more than 17 people and ended five people’s lives,” said Rep. Brooks. “Since then, the threat of a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear incident has not dissipated, but instead continues to grow. Everyday our adversaries are looking for more effective and faster ways to produce a threat. I am proud this comprehensive bill ensures our health care professionals are trained to respond to possible pandemic outbreaks, prioritizes the further development of our national stockpile of vaccines, medical equipment and diagnostics, and establishes new advisory groups focused on protecting vulnerable populations such as senior citizens and people with disabilities during public health threats and emergencies. It reflects extensive feedback from the full range of medical and public health preparedness and response stakeholders in order to best examine our response as a nation to threats, and to ensure that moving forward, we have clear procedures, resources and support in place to keep Americans safe. PAHPA was first signed into law in 2006, and I am proud to lead this critically important reauthorization legislation.” “I commend Reps. Brooks and Eshoo for their bipartisan leadership to reauthorize PAHPA,” said Ranking Member Pallone. “This vitally important public health bill will support public health departments and their workforce as well as the development of new treatments and the stockpiling of supplies that will be deployed to communities nationwide in the case of an emergency. Our national preparedness and response capabilities will be better prepared to respond to public health threats thanks to the passage of PAHPA.” “Today, the House took an important step towards keeping our families safe in the worst-case scenarios of a dangerous disease outbreak or bioterrorism attack,” said Chairman Walden. “By working across the aisle, Reps. Eshoo and Brooks advanced vital improvements to our federal framework for emergency preparedness and made important and potentially life-savings reforms to modernize our readiness, enhance federal authorities, and improve information sharing.” Background The legislation strengthens and improves our national preparedness and response for public health emergencies through our hospitals, state and local health providers, and by accelerating medical countermeasure research and development. Specifically, the legislation focuses on the needs of special populations including children, people with disabilities and seniors before and during a public health emergency. It codifies the Public Health Emergency Medical Countermeasure Enterprise and the duties of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR), while maintaining the important role of the Centers for Disease Control in emergency and response activities. The legislation also provides the authorization and federal resources to invest in programs related to Pandemic Influenza and Emerging Infectious Diseases. In addition, PAHPA: Reauthorizes funding to improve bioterrorism and other public health emergency preparedness and response activities such as the Hospital Preparedness Program, the Public Health Emergency Preparedness Cooperative Agreement, Project BioShield, and BARDA for the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures (MCMs). Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act (PAHPA) expires on September 30, 2018. ###
09.25.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, McEachin Introduce Legislation to Make Election Day a Federal Holiday September 25th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and A. Donald McEachin (VA-04) introduced the Election Day Holiday Act, legislation that will make Election Day a federal holiday. National voter turnout has declined since 1964, and in 2014, reached its lowest level since World War II. Promoting greater participation in our elections increases the democratic legitimacy of our government and ensures more voices are heard in the political process. The Election Day Holiday Act makes voting easier and gives Americans an opportunity to participate in the proud American tradition of self-governance. “The right to vote is fundamental in our democracy, yet U.S. voter turnout is consistently among the lowest of all established democracies around the world,” Congresswoman Anna Eshoo said. “At a time when our democracy is under threat from foreign governments and many states are restricting access to the ballot box, this legislation will give more Americans the time they need to vote and participate in our democracy.” “Our democracy is strongest when Americans participate and vote. It is beyond time that we make this element of civic engagement easier for every American,” said Congressman Donald McEachin. “I have fought for voters’ rights by introducing similar legislation during my time as a member of Virginia’s General Assembly. I am proud to introduce the Election Day Holiday Act with Congresswoman Eshoo to require that Election Day be treated as a holiday. At a time when our elections are under attack from outside and within our country, it is more important than ever for us to do all we can to remove barriers to the ballot box.” “Nothing is more important to strengthening our democracy than ensuring equal access to the ballot box,” said Stanford Professor Adam Bonica, author of the 7/26/2018 New York Times Op-Ed, What’s Good for Democracy Is Also Good for Democrats. “Making Election Day a national holiday is a simple but effective way to remove a key barrier to voting that disproportionately affects the young and the working class.” The text of the bill can be found here. ###
09.17.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Kavanaugh September 17th, 2018 PALO ALTO, CA — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement: “I’m proud of my constituent for the courage she has displayed to come forward to tell her full story to the American people. In weighing her privacy and the consequences to herself and her family, she has demonstrated her willingness to risk these factors to present the truth. “I am grateful to her for weighing these equities and choosing to speak out on one of the most consequential decisions in our country, an appointment to the highest Court in the land. “In a democracy we always seek the truth and honor it.” ###
09.14.2018	+ SHARE ICYMI: Bipartisan Group of Lawmakers Introduce Bill to Stabilize Pending Interstate Sales Tax Chaos September 14th, 2018 Washington, D.C — This week, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05), Congressman Jeff Duncan (SC-03), and Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) introduced the Online Sales Simplicity and Small Business Relief Act to clarify interstate sales tax collection requirements in light of the Supreme Court’s decision in Wayfair v. South Dakota. Rep. Eshoo: “The Internet is a tremendous engine for economic growth, job creation and innovation in our country,” said Rep. Eshoo. I support efforts to level the playing field for brick and mortar retailers while ensuring that state and local tax jurisdictions receive the revenue they are owed. Congress must ensure the South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. decision by the Supreme Court does not become a nightmare for American businesses and small online sellers who could be forced to comply with up to 10,000 different taxing jurisdictions across the U.S. Our legislation establishes commonsense protections for small sellers and ensures businesses are better prepared to collect sales taxes in the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision.” Rep. Sensenbrenner: “This bipartisan legislation reins in the taxation free-for-all created by the Supreme Court’s ruling in Wayfair. Online sellers need clarity and stability in the sales tax arena. Our bill will protect small businesses and Internet entrepreneurs from excessive regulatory burdens. Throughout the Fifth Congressional District, I continually hear from businesses that they need ‘certainty.’ This bill provides that.” Background In June, the Supreme Court handed down a ruling in Wayfair v. South Dakota that overturned decades of precedent regarding online and interstate sales tax collection requirements. In the Wayfair decision, the Court struck down the “physical presence” standard established under National Bellas Hess, Inc. v. Department of Revenue of Ill. and Quill Corp. v. North Dakota. Under that precedent, out of state sellers, also known as remote sellers, were not required to collect sales tax on transactions made in a state in which they did not have a “physical presence,” such as an office, store, or warehouse. Moving forward, all remote sellers that continue to do out of state business will be required to navigate the more than 10,000 different tax jurisdictions each time they complete a transaction. While some retailers can absorb the costs of the additional regulatory burden, thousands of independent online entrepreneurs will be harmed. How the bill works The Online Sales Simplicity and Small Business Relief Act bans retroactive taxation, establishes an orderly phase-in of compliance obligations, and creates a small business exemption. Specifically, it bars states from imposing sales tax collection duties on remote sellers for any sale that occurred prior to June 21, 2018—the date of the Wayfair decision. It also prevents states from imposing sales tax collection duties before January 1, 2019. Finally, it provides a $10 million exemption for small business sellers, until the states produce a compact, approved by Congress, to simplify collection to the point where no small business exemption is necessary. You can view the full the text of the bill here.
08.28.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Markey Lead Members of Congress in Amicus Brief to Overturn Net Neutrality Repeal August 28th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA.), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Senator Ed J. Markey (D-Mass.) and 103 members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals today to overturn the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) recent repeal of net neutrality protections. In 2015, the FCC established strong, legally sound protections to prevent the largest Internet Service Providers (ISPs) from throttling, assessing a toll or blocking content. In 2017, the FCC voted to eviscerate those protections. Since then, consumer advocates, tech companies, small businesses, and 22 state Attorneys General have mobilized to appeal this decision in the D.C. Circuit Court. Eshoo and Markey’s Amicus Brief supports them in the ongoing court fight. “The Internet is one of the greatest inventions in human history and it’s an American invention. It’s our responsibility to protect it as a force to drive innovation, expand our economy, and promote free speech and our democracy,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Over 20 years ago Senator Markey and I served as conferees in the lead up to the passage of the 1996 Telecommunications Act which was written to be technologically neutral and forward-looking” Eshoo continued. “As Members of Congress charged with overseeing the FCC, we are uniquely situated to spell out to the Court exactly what Congress intended by the Communications Act. It was established that there would always be a cop on the beat to protect the public in communications, regardless of advances in technology. That is what our brief sets out for the Court.” “Both the plain language and Congressional intent behind the Telecommunications Act of 1996 that Congresswoman Eshoo and I helped author make clear that today, broadband access to the internet is a telecommunications service,” Sen. Markey said. “But Chairman Pai and his Republican FCC colleagues ignored the statute, our intent, and consumer perception when it reclassified broadband back to an information service and eviscerated the net neutrality rules. They are on the wrong side of history. Whether in the halls of Congress or the halls of the courts, the fight for net neutrality is the fight for our online future, and we will prevail.” A copy of the amicus brief can be found here. ###
08.26.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Death of Senator John McCain August 26th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the death of Senator John McCain: “The death of Senator John McCain has left our country and the world in mourning. He was the embodiment of the best of America. He devoted his entire adult life in service to our country, from his naval career, to prisoner of war for five and a half years, to Congress and to the United States Senate. “In his book The Restless Wave, Senator McCain wrote ‘I made a small place for myself in the story of America and the history of my times.’ Senator McCain was much more than a small place in our nation’s story. He was a legendary patriot with an unwavering commitment to public service and the greater good. My prayers are with his wife Cindy, his mother, and the entire McCain family. May God rest his noble soul.” ###
08.24.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pelosi, Members Demand Investigation into Verizon Throttling of Santa Clara County Fire Department’s Data August 24th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) sent a letter with 11 Northern California Members to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) demanding an investigation into whether Verizon’s throttling of the ‘unlimited’ data plan of the Santa Clara County Fire Department were ‘unfair or deceptive,’ pursuant to Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. According to a Declaration to the D.C. Circuit, County Fire contracted with Verizon for an ‘unlimited’ data plan but experienced heavy throttling when they had reached their ‘cap’. These reduced speeds severely undermined department personnel’s ability to respond to the Mendocino Complex Fire, the largest wildfire in the history of California. When the County department contacted Verizon directly about the reduced speeds and asked them to restore speeds to essential transfer speed, they were told that County Fire would have to switch to a new data plan at more than twice the cost. “It is unacceptable for communications providers to deceive their customers, but when the consumer in question is a government entity tasked with fire and emergency services, we can’t afford to wait a moment longer,” the Members wrote. “The FTC must investigate whether Verizon and other communications companies are being unfair or deceptive in the services they’re offering to public safety entities, and if so, to determine what remedies are appropriate to ensure our first responders have adequate service when lives are on the line.” “Unfortunately, with its repeal of the 2015 Open Internet Order, the FCC has abdicated its jurisdiction over broadband communications and walked away from protecting consumers, including public safety agencies,” the Members continued. “We, therefore, call on the FTC to protect consumers from unfair or deceptive acts or practices stemming from this incident.” The letter was also signed by Representatives Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), John Garamendi (CA-3), Jared Huffman (CA-2), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Jerry McNerney (CA-9), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Mike Thompson (CA-5). The text of the letter can be found here. ###
08.22.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Manafort Guilty Verdict and Cohen Guilty Plea August 22nd, 2018 Palo Alto, CA – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released this statement following the conviction of Paul Manafort on multiple felony charges of tax and bank fraud, and the guilty plea by Michael Cohen of tax fraud, bank fraud and campaign finance violations: “There are few comparable moments in our nation’s history to yesterday’s simultaneous conviction of the President’s former campaign Chairman Paul Manafort and the guilty plea of the President’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen. “In the face of mounting criminal evidence against the President and his inner circle, the likelihood the President will interfere in the Special Counsel’s investigation to prevent more evidence from coming to light increases every day. Congress must move quickly to protect the Special Counsel from any obstruction so the American people get the full truth of Russia’s interference in our national election and any crimes the President may have committed.” ###
08.10.2018	+ SHARE ICYMI: CA Congressional Delegation Raises Concerns with HHS Over Home Care Workers’ Rights August 10th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – On August 10th Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) led California’s Democratic congressional delegation in a letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar expressing concern over the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) proposed rule to restrict home care workers’ ability to voluntarily have union dues or health insurance automatically deducted from their paychecks. This proposal would have a disproportionate impact on California as they have the largest consumer direct home and community based service program in the nation. “The home care workforce—which is 90 percent women, the majority of whom are women of color—is critical to the success of home and community based services and the ability to deliver high-quality home and community care,” wrote the lawmakers. “In California and across the nation, unions have partnered with home care workers to begin to stabilize and grow the workforce, raising wages and ensuring access to benefits like health insurance coverage and skills training to improve job conditions.” The lawmakers continued, “If implemented as HHS currently intends, the proposed rule would unnecessarily deepen a growing care crisis. By making it more difficult for home care workers to join unions, the proposal will hinder the state’s ability to combat high turnover rates through increased pay, professional growth opportunities, and countering the isolation that has been found responsible for workforce instability and the deficit of workers. The negative impact of the proposed rule would not only be felt by the home care workers, but by the thousands of seniors and people with disabilities that rely on them to deliver care every day.” The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
08.09.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Collapse of the Sinclair/Tribune Merger August 9th, 2018 “The collapse of the proposed merger between Sinclair Broadcast Group and Tribune Media is a huge win for consumers. If approved, Sinclair would have controlled 73 percent of the market in the U.S., the largest broadcast company in the country. It would have had damaging effects on the integrity and diversity of our broadcast media. “In a democracy, there should be many voices to the many, not fewer and I’m glad that this mega-merger is dead.”
07.26.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Crowley, Pascrell Urge IRS and FEC to Seek Trump’s Tax Returns Through Investigation July 26th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo, (D-CA-18), Joe Crowley (D-NY-14), Bill Pascrell, Jr. (D-NJ-09) and 91 House members sent a letter to the heads of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Federal Election Commission (FEC) demanding the agencies launch an investigation of President Donald Trump and the Trump Foundation, and obtain the president’s tax returns. “For decades, presidents and presidential candidates have voluntarily disclosed their tax returns. By refusing to make his tax returns public, the President implies he is hiding important information from the American people,” the Members write. “Tax returns contain vital information such as whether the candidate paid taxes; what they own; how much they’ve borrowed and from whom; whether they’ve made charitable donations; and whether they’ve taken advantage of tax loopholes or offshore tax shelters.” On June 14, New York State Attorney General Barbara Underwood filed a civil suit against President Trump for persistently misusing funds from the Trump Foundation to benefit himself and his businesses. The letter urges the IRS and FEC to follow-up on Attorney General Underwood’s recommendation to investigate the president and his Foundation. Due to Attorney General Underwood’s accusation of tax fraud, federal investigators would have the authority to obtain the president’s tax returns and make them publicly available for the first time. “As Members of Congress who support transparency and accountability, we urge you to investigate this matter to determine whether the President broke the law and abused our tax system, and to refer the matter to the Department of Justice for criminal prosecution if the evidence warrants,” the Members continued. Eshoo has led the charge in the House for full disclosure of the President’s tax returns. Her bipartisan legislation, the Presidential Tax Transparency Act requires the current president and all future presidents and presidential candidates to release their tax returns to the public. The text of the letter can be found HERE. ###
07.17.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Trump-Putin Summit July 17th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), a former member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement on the Trump-Putin Summit: “When President Trump took the Oath of Office, he pledged to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States against enemies foreign and domestic. Yesterday he trashed this oath and brought great shame to the U.S. and the presidency itself by standing with Mr. Putin, an enemy of democracy. The President accepted the word of the former head of the KGB over the findings of the U.S. intelligence community, the Senate Intelligence Committee, the Director of National Intelligence, the FBI and the Justice Department that Russia attacked our democracy by blatant interference in our national election. “July 16, 2018 will be noted by historians as the day that the President of the United States betrayed our country.” ###
07.16.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Brooks Introduce Legislation to Combat Biodefense Threats July 16th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congresswomen Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Susan Brooks (R-IN), along with Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR02) and Ranking Member Frank Pallone (D-NJ06) H.R. 6378, the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness and Advancing Innovation Act (PAHPA), a bipartisan effort to ensure that our nation is prepared to respond to a wide range of public health emergencies, whether man made or occurring through a natural disaster or infectious disease. Congress must pass this reauthorization legislation this year to keep PAHPA programs funded past September 30, 2018. “The September 11th attacks on our country and the deadly anthrax attacks that followed in 2001 motivated me and former Rep. Richard Burr to create PAHPA to coordinate responses to public health emergencies and develop necessary medical countermeasures,” Rep. Eshoo said. “PAHPA updates the original legislation to meet the challenges of today, such as the demands placed on our heath care response systems by the increasing number and severity of natural disasters, the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance, and the continued need to develop medical countermeasure products for which there is not a commercial market. I look forward to continuing to partner with Rep. Brooks to swiftly reauthorize this legislation before it expires in September.” “Strengthening our country’s national preparedness and response efforts for public health emergencies is critically important as the threats we are facing are constantly changing,” said Rep. Brooks. “We face threats from devastating hurricanes and viruses such as Ebola or Nipah, as well as ongoing threats of chemical, biological, radiological or nuclear attacks from terrorist organizations or foreign countries who wish to do us harm. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation in the House with original PAHPA author Representative Eshoo, along with Representatives Walden and Pallone, as it will ensure our health care professionals are trained to respond to possible pandemic outbreaks, prioritize the further development of our national stockpile of vaccines, medical equipment and diagnostics, and establish new advisory groups focused on protecting vulnerable populations such as senior citizens and people with disabilities during public health threats and emergencies.” Background The legislation strengthens and improves our national preparedness and response for public health emergencies through our hospitals, state and local health providers, and by accelerating medical countermeasure research and development. Specifically, the legislation focuses on the needs of special populations including children, people with disabilities and seniors before and during a public health emergency. It codifies the Public Health Emergency Medical Countermeasure Enterprise and the duties of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR), while maintaining the important role of the Centers for Disease Control in emergency and response activities. The legislation also provides the authorization and federal resources to invest in programs related to Pandemic Influenza and Emerging Infectious Diseases. In addition, PAHPA: Creates a Public Health Emergency Response Fund for the Secretary of Health and Human Services to use as a bridge when we face an outbreak like Ebola or the deadly Nipah virus so that immediate funding is available that Congress can then supplement with an emergency appropriations bill. Reauthorizes funding to improve bioterrorism and other public health emergency preparedness and response activities such as the Hospital Preparedness Program, the Public Health Emergency Preparedness Cooperative Agreement, Project BioShield, and BARDA for the advanced research and development of medical countermeasures (MCMs). The text of the legislation is attached here. A section by section summary of the legislation can be found here. ###
06.22.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo to Administration: Where are the Children? June 22nd, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) sent a letter to Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar regarding the children placed in the care of HHS as a result of the Trump Administration’s zero-tolerance policy. In her letter, Eshoo requests information as to whether any of the children have been transported and are currently being housed in the 18th Congressional District. The Executive Order signed by the President does not provide any guidance as to how the approximately 2,500 young children that have been disbursed across the country will be reunited with their parents. Eshoo’s letter inquires what steps HHS is taking to ensure that the children are reunited with their parents. “Press reports indicate as many as 2,500 children have been separated from their parents, however HHS, has not been forthcoming about where and in what conditions the children are being housed, and how the Administration plans to reunite them with their families,” Eshoo writes. “As the Representative of California’s 18th Congressional District, I have an obligation to represent all my constituents, including separated children who may now be living there.” The text of the letter can be found here. ###
06.22.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Goodlatte, Sensenbrenner Statement on SCOTUS Decision on Online Sales Tax Issue June 22nd, 2018 Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), and Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in the case of South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. The Court ruled 5-4 to overturn the long-standing physical presence rule of Quill Corp. v. North Dakota. With today’s decision the Court, for the first time, allows states to extend their authority beyond their borders to require out-of-state sellers to collect taxes on online sales. “The Court’s reversal of Quill’s physical presence principle is a nightmare for American businesses and small online sellers, who will now have to comply with the different tax rates and rules of, and be subject to audits by, over 10,000 taxing jurisdictions across the U.S. in which they have no say at the ballot box or representation in state and local government. “This decision will have broad ramifications well beyond the sales tax arena. The physical presence rule the Court overturned today preserved the political accountability that is essential to deter complex compliance burdens for small businesses. Today’s decision will stifle online commerce, close businesses, and ultimately harm consumers. “The dominant issues under debate in this case involved policy, not law. The briefs filed with the Court were filled with discussions of economics, the efficacy of software, trends in the retail industry, and myriad other non-legal questions. Congress is the appropriate institution to resolve these policy questions, not the Supreme Court.” ###
06.20.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo to Travel to U.S. Border to Examine Detention Center June 20th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced today that she will travel to McAllen and Brownsville, Texas on Friday, June 22nd to tour the McAllen Border Patrol Processing Center and the Port Isabel ICE Detention Center. Eshoo hopes to witness firsthand how families have been affected by the Trump Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents. “Ripping children away from their parents is inhumane, goes against our laws, and is a form of child abuse. Our immigration laws provide a special status to refugees fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries,” Eshoo said. “No previous president from either party has interpreted these laws to require mass separation of families. The President has chosen to enforce his policy of zero intolerance, inflicting more suffering on vulnerable refugees and their families, and he can reverse it by instructing his Administration to stop it.” “The Executive Order signed by the President today to detain families indefinitely instead of separating them does nothing to end the blanket criminal prosecution of asylum seekers. I hope that my visit to the detention centers in Texas will bring some solace to the children and families who are being held because of the President’s policy that is not supported by the majority of the American people.” ###
06.13.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lance Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Improve Infant Health June 13th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) introduced H.R. 6085, the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Reauthorization Act, legislation to reduce infant deaths related to premature births. The legislation will specifically expand research, education and intervention activities aimed at preventing premature births. “Every year, ten percent of babies are born prematurely putting them and their mothers at an increased risk of complicated health problems,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Since shepherding this legislation into law in 2006, the PREEMIE Act has helped researchers and doctors identify the causes of premature births and work to prevent them. The number of preterm births decreased from 2007 to 2014, but they’ve begun to rise again. I look forward to swiftly reauthorizing this important program to ensure that every child has a healthy start to life.” “Working together we can continue to reduce premature birth rates and confront childhood disabilities that many young people face. Thanks to great partners like the March of Dimes, this bipartisan legislation will keep up the momentum to help pregnant women. We need to reauthorize the bipartisan PREEMIE Act to accelerate research, education and intervention so we can help more women and reduce premature births. I commend Congresswoman Eshoo for her leadership on his issue,” said Rep. Lance. “The PREEMIE Act of 2018 renews Congress’s commitment to preventing and treating premature birth and its complications, which are the leading contributor to the death of infants across our nation,” stated March of Dimes President Stacey D. Stewart. “The PREEMIE Act is an investment in our country’s future. The March of Dimes is grateful to Reps. Anna Eshoo and Leonard Lance for being steadfast champions for moms and babies.” This legislation reauthorizes the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) research and data collection on infants born prematurely and programs at the Health Resources and Services Administration improve the treatment and outcome of infants born premature. These programs include grants to help doctors and the public understand the potential risk factors for having a preterm baby, such as smoking, and grants to screen and treat expectant mothers for substance use disorders, including opioid use disorders. This reauthorization also includes updated language to incorporate maternal health. A companion bill was introduced in the Senate by Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) on June 7, 2018. ###
06.11.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Names Matthew McMurray as D.C. Chief of Staff June 11th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced that effective immediately, Matthew McMurray will be Chief of Staff of her Washington, D.C. office. McMurray has served as Eshoo’s Legislative Director since 2016 and previously as Senior Legislative Assistant. McMurray began his career on Capitol Hill as an intern in the late Congresswoman Louise M. Slaughter’s (D-NY) office, advancing to the position of Legislative Assistant, and advising her on various legislative issues. McMurray grew up in Canton, New York and earned a Bachelor’s Degree in Politics from the State University of New York at Potsdam and a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics from the State University of New York at Buffalo. He also holds a Master’s Degree in Public Policy from American University. Karen Chapman will remain Eshoo’s District Chief of Staff as McMurray assumes the position in Eshoo’s D.C. office. ###
06.06.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo: ZTE… A ‘Clear and Direct Challenge to Our National Security’ June 6th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, urged Department of Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross to reinstate the Department’s denial of export privileges against Chinese telecommunications manufacturer ZTE. In her letter to the Secretary, Rep. Eshoo outlined the serious transgressions of ZTE. In April 2018, the U.S. blocked ZTE’s access to U.S. suppliers, saying the company violated a 2017 sanctions settlement related to trading with Iran and North Korea and then lied about the violations. Secretary Ross’s Commerce Department also found that ZTE paid full bonuses to employees who engaged in illegal conduct, and then lied about it to U.S. authorities. “Your number-one responsibility and mine is contained in our Oath of Office: to ‘protect and defend’ our citizens from enemies external and internal. We cannot make deals with foreign entities with a history of compromising our telecommunications sector when it presents a clear and direct challenge to our national security,” Rep. Eshoo wrote. “I urge you to rescind your decision to entertain any U.S. relationship with ZTE, to closely reexamine potential conflicts with other foreign companies, and to publicly reinforce that commitment.” The full text of the letter can be found here.
06.06.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Kicks Off Fourth Annual Congressional App Challenge June 6th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today the launch of the fourth annual Congressional App Challenge for the 18th Congressional District. Established by Congresswoman Eshoo and Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event that invites high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education disciplines. “This is an extraordinary opportunity for students in our Congressional District and I’m excited to help foster their interest in science, technology, engineering and math education,” said Rep. Eshoo, who co-chaired the inaugural competition. “The next decade is estimated to create approximately 8.5 million STEM job opportunities, but during that same time it is also estimated that the U.S. will face a shortage of one million STEM graduates. The Congressional App Challenge seeks to address this disparity by encouraging students to create their own app and to pursue an education in STEM fields.” About the 2018 Congressional App Challenge The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or are eligible to attend a public high school located in the 18th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must create a YouTube or VIMEO video explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process. Rep. Eshoo’s office will be accepting submissions between June 5th and October 15th. The submitted apps will be judged by an appointed panel of individuals within the academic, software and entrepreneurial fields. The winning student’s app in each participating congressional district will be displayed in an exhibit at the U.S. Capitol. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found here on Congresswoman Eshoo’s website, or at CongressionalAppChallenge.us. ###
05.09.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President’s Decision to Withdraw from the Iran Nuclear Agreement May 9th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump announced that the United States will withdraw from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “The President’s decision to walk away from the Iran Nuclear Agreement (JCPOA) represents an abdication of U.S. leadership. This move plunges America’s relations with our European allies into uncertainty and sends a message to the world that the word of the United States can no longer be trusted. “The JCPOA is more than an American-Iranian agreement. Five world powers (Germany, France, the U.K., Russia and China) all joined together to produce a plan with unprecedented concessions from Iran, together with the most rigorous inspections, restrictions and verifications regiment ever negotiated. By withdrawing from the agreement without any clear strategy for preventing a nuclear-armed Iran moving forward, the President has opened the door to the past—an Iran building nuclear weapons which is chilling and extremely dangerous. “The JCPOA has forced Iran to give up 98 percent of its stockpile of enriched uranium, reduced its centrifuges by 75 percent, permanently agree not to pursue a nuclear weapon, and included automatic sanctions that would ‘snap back’ into place if any of these commitments were violated. Since its implementation in January 2016, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has certified Iran’s compliance with the agreement ten times. “The agreement was working. World leaders and military and intelligence agencies around the globe, including 100 bipartisan national security veterans, 26 former top-ranking Israeli military and security officials, and over 500 French, British and German Members of Parliament agree that the JCPOA was working and that withdrawing from the agreement will lead to dire consequences. “When the JCPOA formally took effect over two years ago, the world was only 90 days away from Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon. The decision of the President is a green light to Iran to resume its nuclear capabilities.” ###
05.03.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th District Winner of Congressional Art Competition May 3rd, 2018 PALO ALTO, Calif. — On May 1st Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced the 18th Congressional District winner of the Congressional Art Competition together with students, parents and teachers. This year, Eshoo’s office received 93 entries from students attending 17 high schools in her Congressional District. 1st Place: Jennifer Wu Palo Alto High School Name of Artwork: Chatter “I’m exceedingly proud of the exceptional works of art produced by the student artists in my District,” Eshoo said in a statement. “Creativity and freedom of expression are bedrock American values and the Congressional Art Competition advances both. Congratulations to Jennifer and every student who have embraced art to express themselves.” A photo of Rep. Eshoo with Jennifer Wu is below. About the Congressional Art Competition Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has hosted an annual visual art competition for high school students to recognize artistic talent throughout the nation. Attracting more than 650,000 participants nationwide to date, the competition calls for submissions of paintings, drawings, collages, photographs and computer-generated art. Judging in the 18th Congressional District competition is done by an independent panel of art community members. This year’s judging panel included: Kit Coleman, Mahmut Keskekci and Linda Covello. The winning artwork from each congressional district is exhibited for a full year at the U.S. Capitol. The winner receives two round-trip tickets to Washington D.C. for the annual awards ceremony and launch of the exhibition courtesy of Southwest Airlines. Each congressional district winner also receives a one-year subscription to Adobe Creative Cloud™, scholarship opportunities from the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD), and other contributions from national sponsors. # # #
04.27.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Speier, Panetta Release FAA Update on Aircraft Noise in Three Congressional Districts (14, 18 and 20) April 27th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C—Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) released an update provided by the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) response to recommendations made by the San Francisco Airport/Community Roundtable and the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals. The FAA’s update comes after Reps. Eshoo, Speier, and Panetta formally requested an update on the progress of the FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns of Santa Cruz/Santa Clara/San Mateo/San Francisco Counties. To date, the FAA has addressed 101 of the 203 items identified by the Select Committee and the SFO Roundtable. As stated in the FAA’s Executive Summary, ‘This April 2018 Further Update on Phase Two shares the current status of the FAA’s efforts on 12 topics that collectively total 10 Select Committee items and 24 SFO Roundtable items. Each topic references the specific Select Committee recommendation(s) and/or SFO Roundtable recommendation(s), from the November 2017 Update Phase Two ‘Response Tables’ and ‘Appendices.’ These 12 topics include the FAA’s progress on the following: Class B Redesign; BSR Overlay; BSR Overlay Ad-Hoc Subcommittee; BDEGA In-Trail Spacing; BDEGA ‘Down the Bay’ procedure; NIITE/HUSSH/CNDEL to GOBBS and South; use of time-based flow management tools for sequencing; Woodside VOR OTA revision; evaluation of BRIXX altitudes; RNAV Visual Approach to SFO’s Runway 28L; OAK departure procedure that flies down the Bay; and separately – not related to any Select Committee or SFO Roundtable recommendation — the FAA’s own action to implement the recent SERFR 3 Amendment. ###
04.27.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Protect Consumers from Unwanted Robocalls and Texts April 27th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) introduced legislation to protect anyone with a federal loan (student loans, mortgages, veterans loans, farming loans) from unwanted robocalls and texts, specifically to their mobile phones. The Help Americans Never Get Unwanted Phone calls (HANGUP) Act rescinds an enacted provision in the Budget Act of 2015 exempting debt collectors from a longstanding law prohibiting them from robocalling without consent to the mobile phones of those who have a debt owed or guaranteed by the federal government. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) has provided statutory protection to consumers until now. “No one should be subjected to harassing or unwanted robocalls, whether they come from a government contractor or anywhere else,” Eshoo said. “Congress took action to crack down on these unwanted calls through the 1991 TCPA, but the provision in the Budget Act of 2015 rolled back important consumer protections in the 27 year old law. The HANGUP Act restores these critical protections for consumers by establishing a statutory roadblock to unwanted robocalls and texts from government contractors.” A similar companion bill was introduced in the Senate in 2017 by Senator Ed Markey (D-MA). Text of the legislation can be found here. ###
04.24.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Anniversary of the Armenian Genocide April 24th, 2018 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo issued the following statement marking one hundred and three years since the beginning of the Armenian Genocide: “On this day 103 years ago the world bore witness to the systematic and deliberate annihilation of 1.5 million Armenians, Assyrians, Greeks and other minorities by the Ottoman Empire. “Over 100 years after the fact, the United States government has yet to make an official statement labeling the atrocities carried out against these minorities as what they were: genocide. I’m proud to have cosponsored the Armenian Genocide Resolution in every Congress I’ve served in to formally recognize one of the darkest chapters in human history, and I will not rest until we are successful. “Let us take the time today to remember the 1.5 million people who were taken from us—parents, grandparents, brothers, sisters, aunts, uncles and cousins. Each succeeding generation will hold them in their hearts and we will never forget. May we honor them by rising to the occasion and living by the words of 1 JOHN 3:18, “our love should not be just words and talk; it must be true love, which shows itself in action.”
04.22.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Earth Day April 22nd, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement in recognition of Earth Day, which began on April 22, 1970: “Every April 22nd we recognize Earth Day to renew our commitments to protecting the planet we call home. Now more than ever, we must preserve the environment and its resources for future generations. We’ve made significant strides since 1970, but the current Administration threatens that progress through its withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, the repeal of the Clean Power Plan, and the recent weakening of fuel economy standards – all of which represent a stunning abdication of American leadership. “On this Earth Day, I pledge to continue fighting to build a healthier, more sustainable world for generations to come.” ###
04.20.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Passing of Former First Lady Barbara Bush April 20th, 2018 This week our country lost a great patriot, First Lady Barbara Bush. She was entirely devoted to her husband, President George Herbert Walker Bush, their children, and the nation. She had an unwavering commitment to public service, and her nationwide literacy effort benefitted millions of American children. God rest this dignified woman who was the rock of her family and a force for good in our country. ##
04.17.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on U.S. Airstrikes in Syria April 17th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump launched airstrikes against the Syrian regime on Friday, following a brutal chemical weapons attack on civilians in Douma: “The horrors of the Assad reign of brutality and his flagrant disregard for international law by using chemical weapons on his own people provoked a joint response of strikes by the U.S., France and the U.K. “However, these strikes do not represent a policy for the region. Three important steps need to be taken: The Administration should present its policy and how it plans to implement it to Congress. The Congress needs to debate and pass legislation regarding a new Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF). The Intelligence Community should conduct a full classified briefing to Congress relative to Syria and the defenders of Assad: Iran and Russia.” ###
04.03.2018	+ SHARE Social Security Town Hall Resources April 3rd, 2018 Thank you to all who attended the Social Security Town Hall on 4/2. Below you will find resources on the Social Security 2100 Act. larson-eshoo social security flyer Social Security 2100 – One Page 2017_Paralyzed Veterans of America_Social Security 2100 Act FINAL_LTR_Office of the Chief Actuary 2017_Social Security Works_Social Security 2100 Act 2017_NCPSSM_Social Security 2100 Act https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/blog/2018/03/new-medicare-cards-coming-soon my Social Security How to Create an Online Account FAQ: Creating a my Social Security Account
03.21.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo, Clarke Urge FCC Chairman to Protect Lifeline Program March 21st, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Congresswoman Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY) sent a letter signed by over 60 House members to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai, urging him to protect the Lifeline program which provides access to phone and broadband services to over 13 million low-income Americans, the majority of whom earn less than $10,000 a year. The FCC recently voted 3 to 2 on party lines to proceed with a new proposal that will make it more difficult for eligible households to attain Lifeline’s services and remove nearly 8 million current participants out of the program. The FCC’s plan includes establishing caps on the Lifeline program, mandating co-pays from participants, and invalidating 4 out of 5 of the current providers of Lifeline services. The letter urges the Chairman to abandon this proposal and instead, move forward with reforms like the National Verifier, which ensures oversight of Lifeline. “The Lifeline Program is essential for millions of Americans who use their devices to find jobs, schedule doctor’s appointments, complete their school assignments, call 9-1-1 during an emergency or to communicate with their loved ones,” the Members wrote. “Policymakers at all levels of government are united in their desire to close the digital divide, but the FCC should be strengthening Lifeline which has brought connectivity to millions of Americans.” Since the program was created in 1985 under President Ronald Reagan, Lifeline has provided a discount on phone services for low-income consumers to ensure that all Americans have the opportunities and security that phone services bring, including being able to connect to jobs, family and emergency services. The full text of the letter can be found here.
03.20.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation Requiring Transparency of Foreign Agents March 20th, 2018 Eshoo Legislation Would Require American Media Outlets to Disclose Source of State-Sponsored Programming like RT (Formerly Russia Today) Intelligence Community Concluded in 2017 that RT influenced 2016 Elections WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) introduced the Foreign Entities Reform Act of 2018 (FERA), legislation that amends the Communications Act to provide additional disclosure requirements for the content of any entities registered as “foreign agents” with the Department of Justice. The bill would require broadcast, cable, and satellite companies to publicly disclose the source of registered foreign state-based content, such as RT, that is being distributed to American consumers. It would also require announcements for the duration of the content when any of the broadcast is backed by a registered foreign entity. “It’s a fundamental principle in the American media system that the public has a right to know who is behind the programming on our public airwaves,” Eshoo said. “Given RT’s efforts to hide its true intentions over American airwaves, it is critical for the American people to have a clearer picture of the true source of all programming from foreign agents, particularly state-based propaganda. An informed electorate is essential in a democracy, and providing this information will empower citizens to think critically and decide for themselves who is speaking to them and whether they can trust the information carried over our most foundational media outlets.” Background The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) currently has “political file” requirements for broadcast, cable, and satellite transmissions. American content providers are required to publish information regarding the source and funding of political advertisements to the public. The Commission also requires broadcasters to follow “sponsorship identification” rules, which requires them to announce on air and publicly disclose the source of any paid-for broadcasts. Using that same rationale, FERA would apply similar disclosure principles and reporting requirements for broadcasters, cable, or satellite entities when they air or transmit content coming from foreign agents registered under the Federal Agents Registration Act (FARA). FARA requires persons acting as agents of foreign principals in a political or quasi-political capacity to make periodic public disclosure of their relationship with the foreign principal, as well as activities, receipts and disbursements in support of those activities. Eshoo has written to FCC Chairman Pai five times regarding issues arising over-the-air television broadcast of RT, formerly Russia Today. RT has a history of meddling in elections dating back to 2012 when it pushed anti-U.S. messaging to undermine trust in U.S. democracy. The U.S. intelligence community concluded in January 2017 that RT influenced the 2016 elections by serving as a platform for Kremlin messaging to Russian and international audiences. ###
03.06.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Passage of RAY BAUM’S Act March 6th, 2018 FCC Reauthorization Bill Includes Two Eshoo Legislative Priorities that will Reduce Cost of Broadband Deployment and Improve 9-1-1 Call-Location Accuracy WASHINGTON, D.C— As the House passed the RAY BAUM’S Act today to reauthorize the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced two major legislative wins in the final bill, including her bills ‘Dig Once’ and the RESPONSE Act. “The RAY BAUM’s Act is the product of many long hours of hard work to achieve a bipartisan, bicameral compromise, and while no bill is perfect, this Act contains many solid policy advancements for digital communications in the 21st century,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’m especially proud to see two pieces of legislation I’ve championed for many years included in this package.” “Dig Once will make it easier for states and broadband providers to enter new and underserved markets by laying the broadband conduit during construction of roads. This will reduce costs drastically and increase access for communities across the country,” Eshoo continued. “The RESPONSE Act will provide first responders with the precise location of a 9-1-1 caller, whether they’re on the 20th floor of a hotel or the 30th story of an office building. Every second counts in lives saved during emergencies, and location technology is essential for first responders to save the lives of those in danger.” Background Eshoo’s ‘Dig Once’ policy mandates the inclusion of broadband conduit—plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable—during the construction of any road receiving federal funding. This practice will eliminate the need to dig up recently-paved roads to expand broadband infrastructure, significantly reducing the cost of increasing Internet access to underserved communities across the country. The RESPONSE Act requires the FCC to conclude a proceeding requiring all 9-1-1 calls, including those made from Multi-Line Telephone Systems (MTS) to provide first responders with the precise location of a 9-1-1 caller. This will ensure that anyone dialing 9-1-1 from a MTS, commonly found in office buildings and hotels, will have their specific location sent to first responders. ###
02.28.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches Congressional Art Competition February 28th, 2018 Palo Alto, CA— Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) launched the 2018 Congressional Art Competition to discover and celebrate talented high school artists throughout California’s 18th Congressional District. “Creativity and freedom of expression are bedrock American values,” Eshoo said. “For over 30 years the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged the artistic talent of high school students across our country, and I’m proud to advance this tradition by launching this year’s competition in our Congressional District.” About the Competition All high school students from the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate and exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students may submit their artwork for consideration by delivering it to Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by Friday, April 13th. A community reception will be held to honor all participants and announce the winner of this year’s competition. The winning artist, whose work is chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists, has the distinction of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of the U.S. Capitol Building for one year. He or she will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C. and be invited to attend a reception at the Capitol with other talented young artists from across the country, where their artwork will be unveiled. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found on Rep. Eshoo’s website. # # #
01.31.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo: State of our Union is Divided January 31st, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump’s State of the Union address: “When President Trump was sworn into office, he promised to unite and rebuild America and restore its promise for all of our citizens. Instead, one year later the state of our union is bitterly divided. “The President spent his first year in office advancing dangerous proposals to strip away health care from millions of Americans, handing a massive tax cut to the wealthiest in America, and introducing a mass deportation and anti-immigrant agenda. He preached of unity tonight while behind the cameras he has spent the last year rejecting bipartisan proposals on critical issues like health care and immigration. “If the President is serious about working on bipartisan issues like infrastructure that he spoke of tonight, I will gladly work with him. Although he failed to mention technology in his infrastructure vision, I will work to ensure important priorities such as broadband deployment, public safety infrastructure and strong cyber security protections are included in the plan. But first, we must come together to solve the urgent, over-due priorities Republicans have put on the backburner for the last year, including providing protection for the over 800,000 DREAMers who face deportation in the coming weeks. “President Trump’s rhetoric tonight unfortunately does not match reality. Unity and strength in our country cannot be achieved by closing our doors to the hopeless and favoring the wealthy over working American families. As soon as President Trump is ready to get serious and enact policies that benefit all Americans, then I am willing to work with him.” ###
01.23.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Short-Term Government Funding Bill January 23rd, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after voting against the short-term government funding bill: “I’m relieved that the senseless shutdown of the federal government has ended, but the underlying reasons that led to it have not gone away. “I have voted against all four Continuing Resolutions (CRs) brought before the House of Representatives because they are only stop-gap measures — not a budget which addresses the needs of my constituents and the American people. Despite complete control of the government — the White House, the Senate and the House of Representatives — the majority have failed to essentially govern by not producing a budget. There’s a difference between just keeping the lights on (CRs) and having a budget, a precise road map that ultimately is a statement of our national values. “CRs continue to take a toll on our country, damaging both our defense and domestic operations, with one-third of the non-defense domestic budget going toward national security – to veterans, homeland security, the State Department, and Justice Department counterterrorism initiatives. CRs have come to represent negligence and incompetence. Secretary of Defense Mattis said CRs “just create unpredictability … It makes us rigid. We cannot deal with new and revealing threats. We know our enemies are not standing still. So it’s about as unwise as can be.” “The so-called governance by CRs have brought us the following: Disaster funding ignored. No funding for the opioid crisis which is claiming more American lives today than auto accidents. Community Health Centers serving millions of Americans across our country and in my congressional district are careening toward running out of funds. The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) only funded by pitting children against children by ransacking a public health fund that covers vaccinations, leaving 9 million children in the brink. The critical needs of NIH, CDC, and FDA not met. “And while not a CR issue, the 2017 decision of the President to remove the legal status of 800,000 individuals who were brought to the U.S. as children, leaving them subject to deportation, must be dealt with by Congress. Despite the 83 percent support of the American people, the Speaker of the House refuses to allow bipartisan legislation to be voted on to resolve yet another issue of urgency. “Every issue listed enjoys bipartisan support, yet this support is neither respected nor acted upon. Continuing to run a great nation with 10, 20 or 30 day CRs, ignores our national security and domestic challenges, and is an abdication of leadership. “The wrong kind of history has been made with the first government shutdown with one party in command of the executive and legislative branches. Now the just-passed CR gives Congress until February 8th to help restore the confidence of the American people who deserve so much more. I will give my all to help us get there.” ###
01.19.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo and McKinley Introduce Legislation to Expand Broadband Choice in Local Communities January 19th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Congressman David B. McKinley (R-WV) introduced the CLIMB ONCE Act, legislation to cut down on the time and cost of deploying new broadband equipment on utility poles. When deploying broadband, providers often need access to utility or telephone poles to string fiber or other equipment. These poles have a number of other wires and equipment attached to them such as telephone lines and cable television wires. Before a new provider can attach its equipment to the pole, the other owners of equipment on the pole need to be asked to assess and potentially move their wires to make room. This is known as “make ready” work and it can often be a costly and cumbersome process because each individual equipment owner sends their own contractor to move their equipment before new equipment can be installed. “One touch” make-ready policies allow for a list of pre-approved contractors that pole owners agree on to handle make-ready work, eliminating the need for multiple contractors to perform the work. In jurisdictions that already implement one-touch-make-ready, or “climb once” policies, consumers experience lower prices, better service, and more choice. The CLIMB ONCE Act ensures that no federal laws can impede the ability of states and localities to implement “climb once” policies if they choose to, and directs the FCC to establish best practices and model policies that states and local governments may use to shape their own one-touch-make-ready implementation. The CLIMB ONCE Act is the third in a series of bills Eshoo introduced on broadband access with the goals of expanding access, reducing costs, and increasing consumer choice. “These bills are a set of commonsense, targeted proposals designed to empower states and local governments to bridge the digital divide because far too many consumers lack access to a choice of providers. With ‘climb once’ policies, broadband deployment becomes more efficient and less expensive when fewer construction crews are needed to prepare and attach new equipment to poles. A more efficient ‘make ready’ process can make communities more attractive to new broadband providers, leading to better service, lower prices, faster speeds and more choices for consumers,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bipartisan legislation follows up on our “dig once” bill, aimed at deploying state-of-the-art broadband infrastructure. These two bills combined will provide a major lift to rural states like West Virginia. Internet access is crucial to compete in the 21st Century economy, and we’ve seen firsthand how it creates jobs and spurs economic development,” said Rep. David B. McKinley. Read more about the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2018 and the Community Broadband Act here and here. Full bill text here. ###
01.18.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Increase Broadband Access in Local Communities January 18th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Ro Khanna (D-CA), Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), Mark Pocan (D-WI), and Jared Polis (D-CO) introduced the Community Broadband Act, legislation that will empower local communities to ensure their residents have broadband access by preserving the right to provide community-owned service to consumers. According to the Congressional Research Service, twenty states have passed laws that either restrict or outright prohibit local communities from investing local dollars in building their own broadband networks. These laws shield incumbent internet service providers from competition and tie the hands of communities that want to improve broadband options or build-out to unserved areas which private providers refuse to connect. A recent study from Harvard University found that in nearly all cases, community-owned ISPs’ pricing were lower than the incumbent ISPs – sometimes by as much as 50%. The Community Broadband Act prohibits states from writing laws that inhibit local governments from building their own broadband, preserving the local right to self-determination in connecting communities. “Broadband Internet is the most vital tool of the 21st Century economy,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Unfortunately, millions of Americans are still acutely impacted by a complete lack of or an inferior broadband connection. The Community Broadband Act is an important step in bridging the digital divide and will help local governments enable connectivity, increase economic growth and create jobs.” “I’m once again happy to be an original cosponsor of the Community Broadband Act. This bill gives communities another tool to help meet the broadband needs of their citizens. All too often, communities around the country struggle to get service from private providers, and where people can get service all too often it’s too slow and costs too much. Communities that build out their own broadband networks offer competitive options that not only bring service to the unserved, but also promote competition in underserved areas. This policy can help urban and rural districts alike and bring 21st Century opportunities to communities throughout the nation that have been left behind,” said Rep. Doyle. “In the 21st century, the internet is an economic necessity. 34 million Americans still lack broadband access. The Community Broadband Act will empower communities and provide low-cost, high speed internet service to underserved areas. I’m proud to cosponsor Congresswoman Eshoo’s important bill,” said Rep. Khanna. “There are too many parts of Texas where people can’t get on the internet to look for a job, take an online course, read the news, or stay in touch with loved ones. Close to half of rural Texas communities lack access to high-speed internet, that’s almost two million Texans. This bill will help ensure that more Texans are able to get online,” said Rep. O’Rourke. “Our communities must be connected in order to compete in today’s global economy. In too many cases, rural communities – across Colorado and across our country – don’t have access to one of the 21st century’s most fundamental tools: high-speed broadband internet. We need to ensure these communities are afforded the same opportunities, and internet speed, so they can continue to thrive and flourish,” said Rep. Polis. The Community Broadband Act is the second in a series of bills Congresswoman Eshoo is introducing that are all designed to expand broadband access in local communities across the country. The first bill, the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2018 mandates the inclusion of broadband conduit- plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable- during the construction of any road receiving federal funding. Read more about the bill here. Full bill text here ###
01.17.2018	+ SHARE Eshoo and McKinley Introduce ‘Dig Once’ Legislation to Reduce Cost of Expanding Broadband January 17th, 2018 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Congressman David B. McKinley (R-WV) introduced the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2018. This commonsense legislation, commonly referred to as ‘Dig Once’, would mandate the inclusion of broadband conduit—plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable—during the construction of any road receiving federal funding. This practice will eliminate the need to dig up recently-paved roads to expand broadband infrastructure, significantly reducing the cost of increasing Internet access to underserved communities across the country. “Broadband networks are critical to our country’s economic success by facilitating job creation, new business growth, and connectivity to important Internet services,” said Congresswoman Eshoo, who introduced similar legislation in 2009, 2011, and 2015. “Today our information highways are just as important as our interstate highways.” This creative, bipartisan proposal will reduce costs drastically. “By laying broadband conduit during construction of roads that receive federal funding, broadband providers can later install fiber-optic cable without costly excavation of newly built roads,” explained Rep. Eshoo. The Federal Highway Administration estimates it is ten times more expensive to lay fiber under an existing road, than to dig a channel for it when the road is being fixed or built. “This bipartisan legislation makes it easier to deploy state-of-the-art broadband infrastructure, which will provide a major lift to rural communities nationwide. Internet access is crucial to compete in the 21st Century economy, and we’ve seen firsthand how it creates jobs and spurs economic development,” said Rep. David B. McKinley. “Digging up existing roads to install fiber-optic cable is ten times more expensive than laying it at the outset. This solution will save costs and increase access for rural states like West Virginia.” The Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2018 is the first in a series of bills Congresswoman Eshoo will be introducing to expand broadband access in local communities across the country. Full bill text here. ###
12.19.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on House Passage of GOP Tax Bill December 19th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after the House passed the “conferenced” version of the GOP Tax Bill: “Today House Republicans passed their tax plan that is a direct assault on the middle class, adds a minimum of $1.5 trillion to our national debt, and further exacerbates the widening gap between the wealthiest in America and everyone else. “According to a recent New York Times editorial, the top 1 percent of the population already controls 40 percent of the country’s wealth. The final tax bill widens that gap by raising taxes on 86 million middle-class households, while bestowing the wealthiest one percent of our country and multinational companies with 83% of the benefits. “The bill bulldozes the state and local tax (SALT) deduction, impacting nearly 200,000 of my constituents who claimed an average deduction of $31,193 in 2015. This is a critical deduction that many middle class families depend on, and by capping the SALT deduction there will be an increase of taxes for many families in my Congressional District and across California. State and local governments in high-tax regions will also face immediate pressure to reduce their budgets, threatening vital services such as education, law enforcement, and public health. “The bill also repeals the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate to purchase health insurance. This will result in an estimated 13 million people losing their health insurance and will cause premium increases for those that are insured due to a shrinking insurance pool. “Adding insult to injury, the President will see a major financial windfall from a provision that was slipped into the bill at the last minute to benefit wealthy real estate investors like himself. His real estate businesses are organized as “pass through” companies where the income from the business “passes through” to the individual’s tax returns. Under this bill, the President will be allowed to deduct up to 20% of the income earned from these “pass through” businesses from his overall personal tax burden. However, without the release of his tax returns, the American people are in the dark about how much the President will further enrich himself and his friends.” “This bill is the largest corporate tax cut in our nation’s history but it compromises the future well-being of our country and its people. Instead of reforming the tax code to expand our economy, the bill expands our debt. Instead of motivating more Americans to pursue higher education, more to own their own homes, more to move up the economic ladder, the bill sacrifices our values and vision for a plan that has never worked in the past.” ###
12.18.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pallone, Torres Introduce Legislation to Fund and Improve 9-1-1 Systems December 18th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Co-Chair of the Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus, Frank Pallone (NJ-06), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and Norma Torres (CA-35) introduced legislation to upgrade our nation’s 9-1-1 call centers to meet the demands of rapidly changing communications technology. The Next Generation (NG) 9-1-1 Act of 2017 strengthens federal efforts to help state and local governments to transition to NG9-1-1 technology by providing new federal funding, technical assistance, and training, while ensuring 9-1-1 is kept under state and local control. “Our 9-1-1 call centers are the first point of contact for Americans in an emergency situation, but they rely on technology that has been in place since the time of the first 9-1-1 call 50 years ago,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need to make certain the public safety community has all the tools it needs to serve and protect our communities because in life-threatening situations, seconds matter. This legislation will help bring our 9-1-1 call centers into the 21st Century.” “In the wake of so many natural disasters this year, it’s clearer than ever that we need to upgrade our 9-1-1 systems to be more secure and resilient. Americans deserve access to better technology when they call 9-1-1—that means ensuring that 9-1-1 knows your location when you place a call at the very least. I’m proud that we’re introducing legislation that will help save lives and modernize our 9-1-1 centers,” Ranking Member Pallone said. “As someone who spent seventeen years as a 9-1-1 dispatcher, I know first-hand the demands and stress of the job,” Rep. Torres said. “Dispatchers must process powerful pleas for help and deliver the information in just seconds to our first responders. I’ll never forget my experience in the job – where I was asked to interpret callers’ information only from the limited information they could share over the phone. The transition to a new system won’t be easy, but NextGen 9-1-1 will provide our dispatchers with greater tools to save lives – tools I could have used to expedite help to those I was trying to help. The Next Generation (NG) 9-1-1 Act of 2017 will bridge the gap between what is needed and what is possible.” NG9-1-1 allows people to communicate with 9-1-1 call centers the same way they communicate with each other. When faced with an emergency, people will be able to send text messages, pictures, videos and other information captured by the devices we use today to 9-1-1 call centers, which currently rely on aging infrastructure and outdated technology. These call centers will be able to process and pass this information seamlessly to first responders across jurisdictions so they have the most accurate information about an emergency. Progress on 9-1-1 has been slow though, largely due to lack of funds and local resources. Earlier this year, Senator Nelson and Senator Klobuchar introduced the NG 9-1-1 Act in the Senate. With the introduction of the NG 9-1-1 Act in the House, Congress is one-step closer to expanding the federal NG9-1-1 grant program, establishing an advisory board to recommend updates to the definition of NG9-1-1, and providing assistance to NG9-1-1 systems to help them guard against cyberattacks. ###
12.14.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC’s Vote to Eliminate Net Neutrality Protections December 14th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee released a statement today after the Republican Federal Communications Commission voted to scrap all net neutrality protections. “FCC Chairman Ajit Pai fulfilled his promise today to destroy the free and open Internet, but tomorrow the battle commences. It’s clear that the Chairman’s idea has been rejected in the court of public opinion with tens of millions of Americans weighing in. Now the issue will be judged in the courts. Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) and I will be leading an Amicus Brief for the anticipated litigation very soon. “The net neutrality rules currently in place have advanced competition and innovation and have created more startups and entrepreneurs. Investment in the online ecosystem has thrived, with innovative new apps and more buildout of broadband. The rules have worked well and eliminating them hurts businesses, creators and consumers alike. “Organizations from A-Z oppose Chairman Pai’s proposal and support the current rules. That list includes over 1,200 startups, 200 online companies, over a dozen state Attorneys General, over sixty Mayors across the country, 52 civil and human rights organizations, 120,000 libraries, 41 small Internet providers, more than 900 online video creators, 22 of the pioneers and technologists who contributed to creating the Internet itself, and the tens of millions of Americans who continue to weigh in every day. Even Congressional Republicans are now coming out saying that these rules need to be preserved. “A free and open Internet is essential to prosperity and improving the quality of life for all Americans, and it must be protected. I look forward to continuing this fight.” ###
12.07.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on House Impeachment Vote December 7th, 2017 Washington, D.C.- Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following yesterday’s vote to begin impeachment proceedings against President Trump. “On December 6th I voted to table Representative Green’s impeachment resolution. I did so because the resolution itself did not put forward impeachable offenses. Rather, it enumerated offensive words and actions that violate my sensibilities, but do not constitute ‘treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors’ as is stated in the U.S. Constitution. “I believe there is a strong case to be made for obstruction of justice by the President and I look forward to Special Counsel Mueller completing his criminal investigation which will become the basis for impeachment of the President. “I encourage my constituents to read the Resolution, as I did.” https://algreen.house.gov/sites/algreen.house.gov/files/GREETE_037_xml.pdf
12.05.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces App Challenge Winner for the 18th Congressional District December 5th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) announced the winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge today. Olivia Chang of Palo Alto High School won this year’s competition with her App, Mere, which allows users to journal, rate their mood and upload photos from the day. The App simplifies the journaling process which studies have shown helps promote self-esteem. Congresswoman Eshoo, a founding Co-Chair of the 2015 bipartisan competition said: “Olivia saw the benefits that journaling had among her peers and developed an App to make it easier for everyone to do. Her App is innovative and will help users daily as they document their thoughts and emotions. Bravo to Olivia and every participant this year who demonstrated great knowhow, tech savvy and enormous potential.” About the Congressional App Challenge Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this bipartisan competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all participating congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education fields. Apps are judged based on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 18th Congressional District was chosen by an independent panel of expert judges. Each winner of the Congressional App Challenge will receive $250 in Amazon Web Services (AWS) Credits and their App will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol Building and on House.gov for a year. # # #
11.21.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Evisceration of Net Neutrality November 21st, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement today following the Federal Communications Commission Chairman’s proposal to scrap net neutrality: “Today, FCC Chairman Ajit Pai confirmed his long-term goal to unravel net neutrality protections, demonstrating that he is on the wrong side of history, startups, consumers and the public interest. As millions of Americans voice their support for a free and open internet, Chairman Pai’s proposal hands the internet over to the largest Internet Service Providers (ISPs) who can throttle, assess a toll or block content. “The net neutrality protections have advanced competition and innovation, created more startups and entrepreneurs, and have been judicially approved. Repealing these protections is an assault on what has made the internet what it is… an open and dynamic platform. This is not the end of a battle but the beginning of a new one that I will engage in to protect the open internet for my constituents and all Americans.” ###
11.17.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Speier, Panetta Release Updated FAA Responses on Aircraft Noise Concerns in Three Congressional Districts (14, 18, 20) November 17th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C—Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) released the updated final version of the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) response to recommendations made by the San Francisco Airport/Community Roundtable and the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals. The updated FAA’s response includes Appendices that explain the FAA’s decision-making process and updates on recommendations that were previously under technical evaluation by the agency, as well as implementation timelines for those recommendations deemed feasible. “Today we release the FAA’s report and responses to our region’s recommendations to address the impacts of the NextGen program, and we share the frustration of our constituents with regard to how long this evaluation has taken to produce. As we have previously stated, we are grateful to the Select Committee, the SFO Airport/Community Roundtable and community leaders for their hard work, and for the countless hours of public hearings, technical briefings and document review that have taken place. This was a public, thorough and deliberative process. We thank FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta, Western Pacific Regional Administrator Dennis Roberts and the staff at Air Traffic Operations and Mission Support for their ongoing diligent work to address the complex issues that challenge our region. We are reassured by the FAA’s statement in the Executive Summary on Page 2 which states, “This report does not represent the end of our work. The FAA continues to commit to work collaboratively with communities and local Members of Congress to address a wide range of noise concerns.” As representatives of the various affected communities throughout the region, we will continue to work together to ensure that the timelines outlined in the report are maintained by the FAA.” While the Select Committee concluded its work at the end of last year, the SFO Airport/Community Roundtable will continue its work for aircraft noise mitigation on behalf of the residents of San Francisco and San Mateo Counties. Rep. Speier applauded the FAA’s decision to implement a nighttime departure path for most southbound flights that will fly over the Bay and Pacific Ocean instead of over people’s homes while they sleep. She expressed disappointment that some very promising recommendations were not deemed feasible by the FAA in this report. She urges the SFO Airport/Community Roundtable to review these “non-feasible” recommendations to determine if they can be refined to become acceptable. Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Panetta, representing parts of Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties have followed up on the Select Committee’s recommendation for a permanent venue in the South Bay to address aircraft noise concerns for the currently unrepresented cities in their Congressional Districts. A copy of the Members’ letter co-authored with Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17) can be viewed here. ###
11.16.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Passage of House GOP Tax Plan November 16th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement after voting against the House Republican tax plan: “The Republican tax bill that passed the House today is an assault on the middle class and it will do lasting damage to our country. The bill is a dishonest ‘bait and switch’ for the 36 million middle class families who will see their taxes increase under this plan to pay for tax cuts for the wealthiest 1% of Americans and multinational companies. It is paid for by eliminating the few remaining benefits in the tax code for the middle-class and adding $1.7 trillion to the national debt, leaving it to our children and grandchildren to pay for. “Most importantly for my constituents, this bill bulldozes the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. Almost 200,000 of my constituents claimed an average state and local tax deduction of $31,193 in 2015. In fact, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy found that California stands to be the biggest overall loser in this plan and faces a $12.1 billion tax increase in 2027 alone. Scaling back the SALT deduction will raise taxes for the middle class, and will cause state and local governments to reduce public services that make life better for everyone. “The bill also takes aim at the most valuable asset of the middle class: their home. It limits the mortgage interest deduction used by homeowners to $500,000 worth of mortgage debt, and eliminates the deduction for personal property losses resulting from natural disasters. Californians just experienced the worst wildfires in our state’s history with over 14,000 homes lost or damaged at a cost of at least $3 billion. Abandoning these families, I find to be especially cruel. “It takes direct aim at college students across the country, raising the future cost of higher education by $65 billion over 10 years by eliminating the deductibility of interest on student loans. It also taxes employer tuition assistance benefits for students and tuition waivers for graduate students by treating them as income, making it more expensive for future scientists, medical professionals, educators, and other leaders to get an education. “This bill is unfair, unbalanced, and fiscally irresponsible and it dims the future of our country by attacking the middle class, diminishing educational opportunities for students, and hurting older Americans.” Eshoo’s Floor remarks on the House GOP Tax Plan can be found here- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qDAD0nRJx2g&feature=youtu.be ###
11.16.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for FCC Chairman to Investigate RT & Sputnik November 16th, 2017 Eshoo Urges FCC Chairman for the third time to Investigate Russian Government Television and Radio’s use of U.S. Airwaves during 2016 Election WASHINGTON, D.C— On November 15th Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Aji Pai urging him once again to investigate two Russian state-sponsored media outlets: RT and Sputnik. This is Eshoo’s third letter to the Chairman since the U.S. Intelligence Community concluded that RT and Sputnik meddled in our national elections when they pushed anti-U.S. messaging over U.S. broadcast airwaves to undermine trust in U.S. democracy. Eshoo’s letter urges the Chairman to take ongoing allegations of Russian interference over U.S. airwaves seriously and launch an investigation to inquire the following, among others: Were RT and Sputnik transmitting over U.S. airwave licensee stations and were those broadcast stations in compliance with FCC foreign sponsorship disclosure rules at that time? For what percentage of airtime were the broadcasters transmitting broadcast from RT and Sputnik, respectively? If the broadcasters were not in compliance under the FCC’s foreign state sponsorship rules, what steps is the Commission taking to address those transgressions, including but not limited to the revocation of broadcast reauthorization of the U.S. stations? “It is increasingly clear that the ability of RT and Sputnik to broadcast over public airwaves without disclosing the true sponsor of this programming had harmful effects on the public interest,” Eshoo wrote. “American consumers have a right to know where their information is coming from, and whether the public interest is being compromised over the airwaves designated to serve them. It is the responsibility of the Commission to protect the public interest first, and I hope you will exercise your diligence by looking into these matters to prevent further subversion from taking place.” This letter comes on the heels of RT’s delayed registration under the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) last week, as ordered by the Department of Justice. Eshoo has twice written to Chairman Pai (May 3rd and Sept 18th) requesting the FCC to look into Russian interference over U.S. airwaves, which he has so far declined to do. The full text of the letter can be found here. ###
11.07.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges FCC Chairman to Include More Local Government Input on Broadband Deployment November 7th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) sent a letter with 13 other members to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai urging him to expand representation of state and local government officials on his Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee (BDAC). The FCC’s BDAC was formed to bring together representatives from local governments, community groups, the communications industry and consumers on how to rapidly deploy high-speed Internet access. However, as the board currently stands, more than three out of four seats are filled by representatives from the biggest wireless and cable companies such as AT&T, Comcast and Sprint, according to a report from the Center for Public Integrity. The report also found that of the numerous local government representatives that applied to join the BDAC, only one was originally selected to serve on the 30-member committee, which constitutes only 10% of voting membership. Eshoo’s letter urges the Chairman to expand representation of state and local government officials on the BDAC to adequately represent the broad array of voices whose input is necessary to develop inclusive solutions. “Broadband internet access is an essential service that American consumers and communities need in order to compete and fully participate in the 21st century. As Members of Congress who are committed to enacting policies that enhance broadband internet access across the U.S., we were encouraged by your decision in January to form the BDAC to advise the Commission on current regulatory barriers impeding the deployment of broadband,” the members wrote. “However, we are concerned that the composition of the 30-member BDAC relies too heavily on the input of industry voices and less on public officials who are responsible for protecting the public interest and who understand the issues and perspectives of local communities nationwide,” the members continued. The full text of the letter it attached. ###
11.03.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Reauthorization of CHIP & Community Health Centers Funding November 3rd, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement today after the passage of the reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program and Community Health Centers in the House of Representatives: “The Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Community Health Centers have consistently been popular bipartisan programs. These programs fund healthcare for millions of children in our country and provide resources to Community Health Centers in our Congressional District, including the Asian Americans for Community Involvement (AACI) Health Center in San Jose; the Indian Health Center of Santa Clara Valley; Planned Parenthood Mar Monte; and the Ravenswood Health Center on the border of my Congressional District in East Palo Alto. “Instead of reauthorizing these programs on a bipartisan basis, the package from Republicans offered a false choice- – in order to provide health care for some, Congress cut health care for others. The plan extends funding for CHIP and Community Health Centers by cutting millions from the Prevention and Public Health Fund, including vaccination programs, infectious disease prevention and chronic disease prevention. “The package also pays for these critical programs by raising premiums for Medicare beneficiaries and kicking individuals who purchase their health coverage on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) marketplaces off their insurance if they fail to pay their premiums on time. This could cause up to 688,000 Americans to lose their health insurance. “We’re reauthorizing CHIP and CHCs after they’ve already expired and funding them by taking away from equally needed programs. We’re a month late and many dollars shifted elsewhere. These pay-fors are unacceptable and for these reasons, I voted NO on this bill.” ###
10.13.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Trump’s Decision to Decertify Iran Deal October 13th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump announced that he will not certify Iran’s compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action: “When the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), or the Iran Deal, formally took effect on ‘Adoption Day’ two years ago, the world was only 90 days away from Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon. The JCPOA halted Iran’s pursuit to becoming a nuclear state. It brought unprecedented concessions from the Iranians, together with the most rigorous inspections, restrictions and verifications ever negotiated. Since its implementation in January 2016, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has certified Iran’s compliance with the agreement eight times and the Trump Administration has already certified Iran’s compliance twice. “The President’s refusal today to certify the JCPOA is the first step in unraveling the entire agreement. Threatening our relationship with our allies while also giving Iran the green light to resume their nuclear capabilities simply to fulfill a campaign promise could lead to another war in the Middle East and further the abdication of American leadership. “Two years ago, I warned my colleagues in Congress that abandoning this agreement would make the United States seem feckless, a nation whose word cannot be trusted by our international partners. The President’s decision today weakens our global leadership and escalates tensions in Iran.” ###
10.10.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the President’s Withdrawal of the Clean Power Plan October 10th, 2017 “The Trump Administration’s decision to begin the formal repeal of the Clean Power Plan is a monumental attack on the health of the American people. It will increase the output of carbon pollution in the air and do nothing to help the coal miners the President vowed to defend. The Clean Power Plan is a job creation plan, an economic policy and a climate policy. It represents a critical step to protecting our planet for our children and grandchildren, and without it, the U.S. cannot reach the goals established by the Paris Accords. “Even without the plan fully in effect, states like my home state of California are already moving ahead of the targets established by the Clean Power Plan, but federal help is crucial. These are not tangled senseless regulations. They are safety measures to protect the health of our people, our country and the planet.” ###
10.06.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Trump Administration Assault on Women’s Contraceptive Coverage October 6th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after the Trump Administration moved to end the federal requirement for employers to cover basic contraception in their health insurance plans. “Since President Trump’s first day in office, his administration and Republicans in Congress have relentlessly attacked the reproductive rights and access to health care for women. Today’s announcement from the Administration eliminating birth control coverage in the Affordable Care Act is no different. 62 million women have benefited from the birth control coverage and because of this expanded access, the rate of unintended pregnancies and abortion is at a 40-year low. “Shame on the President for this dangerous rule that sets our country backward and limits a woman’s right to health care.” ###
09.18.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pallone, Doyle to FCC: Russia May be Using our Country’s Airwaves to Undermine Democracy September 18th, 2017 Members Urge FCC Chairman to Investigate Russian Government Radio’s use of U.S. Airwaves during 2016 Election WASHINGTON, D.C— Following recent press reports that Sputnik, a radio network funded by the Russian government allegedly used U.S. airwaves to influence the 2016 presidential election, Representatives Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) urged Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai to investigate the matter and enforce the public interest standard for licensed stations that broadcast the network. All three members are senior members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over the FCC. Several reports allege that Sputnik used U.S. airwaves to influence the 2016 presidential election by spreading false news reports attempting to undermine U.S. democracy, including reports that imply the U.S. election results were hacked or rigged. “Recent reports suggest that Sputnik was used as part of the Kremlin’s efforts to influence the 2016 election. In Washington, D.C., listeners need only tune their radios to 105.5 FM to hear the Russian government’s effort to influence U.S. policy,” the members wrote. “Disturbingly, this means the Kremlin’s propaganda messages are being broadcast over a license granted by the FCC.” The Communications Act of 1934 gives the FCC power to take action to ensure broadcast licenses act in the public interest, convenience and necessity. In the letter, the members ask Pai if the FCC will use this power to investigate whether broadcast licensees are contravening the public interest by retransmitting radio programing funded by the Russian government in an effort to influence U.S. polices and elections. The members further inquire what steps the FCC will take if these allegations prove true. In March, Eshoo and Doyle wrote to Chairman Pai regarding issues arising over-the-air television broadcast of RT, formerly Russia Today. RT has a history of meddling in elections dating back to 2012 when it pushed anti-U.S. messaging to undermine trust in U.S. democracy. The U.S. intelligence community concluded that it influenced the 2016 elections by serving as a platform for Kremlin messaging to Russian and international audiences. The text of the letter can be found here. ###
09.05.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Trump’s Decision to End DACA September 5th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that President Trump will terminate the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) initiative: “When President Obama established DACA in 2012, the program created a ray of hope for those who were brought to the United States as young children and they are Americans in every way except on paper. President Trump’s decision today to terminate this program diminishes that hope for the bright young DREAMers who now call America home. “Over 787,000 individuals have received relief from deportation under the DACA program, allowing them to obtain work permits, pursue higher education, obtain driver’s licenses, and contribute their talents to our nation. These children put their faith in our government when they chose to come out of the shadows and I will fight with all that I have to ensure Congress passes legislation to overrule the President’s irresponsible action and ensure that these children can remain in the only country they have ever known.” ### For additional information on the implementation of this decision, see the USCIS website and FAQ from the Department of Homeland Security.
08.22.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Trump’s Remarks on Afghanistan August 22nd, 2017 Washington, D.C.- Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s remarks on Afghanistan: “When the President spoke to the American people this week, he had the opportunity to articulate a clear path forward in Afghanistan to a war weary public. Instead, he merely outlined the basic goals past presidents have supported — stability and security to the region and ensuring the country will not be a safe-haven for terrorists. The war in Afghanistan is the longest engagement in U.S. history, with more than 2,400 American lives lost and billions of taxpayer dollars spent. The President further doubled down on this open-ended conflict by refusing to say how many additional troops he plans to put in harm’s way or giving a timeline for withdrawal. “By failing to even mention the word ‘Congress’ in his speech, the President believes he can move forward with a blank check for Afghanistan without Congress passing a new Authorization for the Use of Military Force (AUMF). We owe it to the thousands of servicemembers still fighting in Afghanistan to have this debate sixteen years after Congress first authorized military operations in Afghanistan after the September 11th attacks.” ###
07.28.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Collapse of Senate Trumpcare July 28th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after the Senate defeated the so-called “skinny” Trumpcare amendment early this morning: “The early morning defeat of the Senate’s Trumpcare bill is a direct result of the determination of the American people to organize, protest and make their voices heard. Now it’s time for Congress to work together to improve the Affordable Care Act with commonsense solutions which will improve health care for all Americans.” ###
07.26.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Kicks Off Third Annual Congressional App Challenge July 26th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today the launch of the third annual Congressional App Challenge for the 18th Congressional District. Established by Eshoo and Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event that invites high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education disciplines. “This is an extraordinary opportunity for students in our congressional district and I’m excited to help foster their interest in science, technology, engineering and math education,” said Eshoo, who co-chaired the inaugural competition. “The next decade is estimated to create approximately 8.5 million STEM job opportunities, but during that same time it is also estimated that the U.S. will face a shortage of 1 million STEM graduates. The Congressional App Challenge seeks to address this disparity by encouraging students to create their own app and pursue an education in STEM fields.” About the 2017 Congressional App Challenge The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or are eligible to attend a public high school located in the 18th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the Competition Submission Period between July 26th and November 1st. The submitted apps will be judged by an appointed panel of individuals within the academic, software and entrepreneurial fields. The winning student’s app in each participating congressional district will be displayed in a U.S. Capitol exhibit. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found at CongressionalAppChallenge.us. ###
07.25.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Speier, Panetta Release FAA Initiative Response to Address Aircraft Noise Concerns of Constituents of Congressional Districts 14, 18 and 20 July 25th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C—Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14), and Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) released the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) response to recommendations made by the San Francisco Airport/Community Roundtable and the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals. The FAA’s Initiative response includes recommendations determined to be feasible as well as not feasible from an operational and safety perspective. Among the many recommendations included in the document being released today are some that are still under technical evaluation by the FAA; an updated version of this report will later be released which will further categorize those under evaluation and will also include Appendices that will outline the FAA’s decision-making process. “We are grateful to all of our constituents and community leaders for their hard work, including countless hours of public hearings, technical briefings and document review. This was a public, thorough and deliberative process. We salute FAA Administrator Michael P. Huerta, Regional Administrator Dennis Roberts and the staff at Air Traffic Operations and Mission Support for their ongoing diligent work to address the complex issues that challenge our region. While the Select Committee concluded its work at the end of last year, the SFO Airport/Community Roundtable will continue its work for aircraft noise mitigation on behalf of the residents of San Francisco and San Mateo Counties, said Members. Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Panetta who both represent parts of Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties have followed up on the Select Committee’s recommendation for a permanent venue in the South Bay to address aircraft noise concerns for the currently unrepresented cities in their Congressional Districts. A copy of the Members’ letter co-authored with Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17) can be viewed here. “As Members of Congress who are also Members of the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus, we will continue to support legislative efforts in Congress to hold airlines and airports accountable to reduce aircraft noise which has impacted so many of our constituents and encourage the airline industry to adopt new technologies that will reduce noise,” said Rep. Speier, Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Panetta. The FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns of Santa Cruz/Santa Clara/San Mateo/San Francisco Counties Phase Two can be viewed here.
07.18.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Effort Calling on Trump Election Commission to Withdraw Voter Data Request July 18th, 2017 WASHINGTON— As the President prepares to convene the first meeting of his Advisory Commission on Election Integrity tomorrow, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo is leading a letter with over 70 Members of Congress urging the Commission’s Vice Chair Kris Kobach to withdraw his request for voter registration data due to significant security and privacy concerns. Eshoo’s letter highlights the substantial risk to the privacy and security of Americans if the personally identifiable information of American voters is transmitted to the federal government and stored in a central location. The request from the Commission includes requests for sensitive information criminals use to commit identity theft, including full names, dates of birth, and Social Security numbers. Eshoo’s letter highlights that sending such critical information through unsecure email and storing it in one place represents a significant security risk and creates a single point of attack for hackers. “The Trump Administration’s request for sensitive voter registration data from every State poses a severe risk to the privacy and security of the American people,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “The federal government has an obligation to protect the private information of Americans, but this request for personal voter data does the exact opposite. At a time when the personal information of Americans is under constant attack, requesting this sensitive information simply to satisfy a lie made up by the President to justify his loss of the popular vote is completely irresponsible and dangerous.” “It is my duty to ensure the integrity of our elections and to protect the voting rights and privacy of California voters,” said California Secretary of State Alex Padilla. “I won’t put voters’ information at risk by complying with the President’s irresponsible and unprecedented request for personal data. Neither will a vast majority of Republican and Democratic secretaries of state who have refused part or all of the commission’s request. I commend the California Congressional delegation for rightfully requesting that the commission’s request be withdrawn.” The Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity was created by Executive Order on May 11, 2017, after President Trump claimed without evidence that millions of people voted illegally in the 2016 Presidential election. A comprehensive 2014 study by the Washington Post found only 31 instances of in person voter fraud from 2000 to 2014, out of over more than one billion ballots cast. The Election Integrity Commission’s data request is currently on hold due to pending litigation alleging that the Commission failed to undertake a mandatory privacy assessment before issuing its request. To date, over 40 states have indicated that they will not fully comply with the Commission’s request for voter data. The full text of the letter can be found here.
07.15.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Fortenberry Condemn Turkey’s Seizure of Assyrian Church Properties July 15th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE), Co-Chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus released the following statement strongly condemning the Turkish government for seizing sacred church properties from the Assyrian people. “There are few things more sacred to the Assyrian people than the churches and monasteries that define their roots which date back to ancient Mesopotamia in 3500 B.C. The Turkish government’s latest actions are one more example of a deliberate and coordinated effort to eliminate the rights, history, and culture of the Assyrian people. Stealing millions of square feet of land, including two 1,500 year-old working monasteries is nothing more than religious persecution and threatens the Assyrian’s future in Turkey. As Co-Chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, we stand firm in condemning these actions by Turkey and call on the government to return the monasteries and churches to their rightful owners.” This week, it was reported that the Turkish government had begun seizing dozens of properties from the Syriac Orthodox Church, claiming that their ownership deeds had lapsed. Numerous monasteries and churches, as well as graveyards, have been given over to the state Treasury and now to Turkey’s Department of Religious Affairs. ###
07.12.2017	+ SHARE On Net Neutrality ‘Day of Action,’ Eshoo Urges Pai to Keep Critical Protections in Place July 12th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today is the Net Neutrality Day of Action, with companies across the country taking a stand against FCC Chairman Aji Pai’s efforts to unravel net neutrality protections and Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) has expressed her vigorous opposition in a letter to FCC Chairman Pai about his current proposal. Her letter references the views of several CEOs of startups who met with her at a recent roundtable in her Silicon Valley District. Eshoo emphasizes the critical need to consider the economic impacts that a repeal of the current net neutrality protections would have on startups and small businesses. “[…] the last few years have shown that Title II protections have enabled innovation and investment across the Internet ecosystem. The current rules are working well, and appropriately balance the needs of startups, small businesses, consumers, and ISPs,” Congresswoman Eshoo wrote. “Chris Riley, the Public Policy Director at Mozilla, stated it perfectly at our meeting when he referred to this debate as ‘reality versus illusion.’ While strong and enforceable net neutrality rules are widely supported and Internet quality continues to improve, large ISPs are nevertheless leading the effort to eliminate protections that have been proven to be essential for startups and small businesses.” Participants in Eshoo’s roundtable stressed that eliminating net neutrality protections will chill investment in one of the most dynamic sectors of our national economy. Several CEOs spoke about the damages that an elimination of the protections will have on startups and on consumers. Consumers must be protected from ISPs who are attempting to “cableize” the internet and drive up costs for better internet service. On March 7th FCC Chairman Ajit Pai began the process of overturning net neutrality, demonstrating that he is on the wrong side of history, consumers and the public interest. Pai intends to remove rules that advance competition, innovation, small businesses and entrepreneurs. The full text of the letter can be found here.
06.29.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Hatch, Markey, Brooks Introduce Legislation to Thwart Cyber Hacks June 29th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Following a worldwide cyber-attack last month that hit more than 300,000 computers, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) and Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-IN) introduced legislation to combat cyberattacks and cybercrime against U.S. computer networks. The Promoting Good Cyber Hygiene Act instructs the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), to establish a baseline set of voluntary best practices for good cyber hygiene that are made available online. In addition, the bill instructs the agencies to consider the cyber hygiene benefits of standard cybersecurity measures such as multi-factor authentication and data loss prevention. “Our nation’s computer networks—public and private—are under constant attack from cyber criminals,” Eshoo said. “It’s estimated that these attacks cost our economy nearly half a trillion dollars annually in identity theft, stolen blueprints, exposed financial information, and more. The scary truth is that data security experts have suggested 90 percent of successful cyberattacks are due to system administrators overlooking two integral pillars of network security: cyber hygiene and security management. By instituting commonsense best practices, system administrators can better protect their networks and consumer data from a majority of known cyber threats.” “With cybercriminals growing bolder in their attacks, strengthening our cybersecurity infrastructure remains one of my top priorities in the Senate,” Hatch said. “Cyberattacks threaten our economy and inflict untold damage on thousands of Americans. Fortunately, proper cyber hygiene can prevent many of these attacks. This bill will establish best practices for cyber hygiene and make them available on a publically accessible website. I am honored to join Congresswoman Eshoo in introducing a bill that will help Americans better protect themselves from enemies online.” “The Internet of Things era is defined by the connectivity of the daily digital world – our devices, appliances, and machines now communicate with one another across rooms, across states, and across oceans,” Markey said. But the Internet of Things era could morph into the Internet of Threats era if appropriate cybersecurity safeguards are not put in place now to protect consumers. This legislation will help establish best practices for good cyber hygiene such as two factor authentication, an important step that will help Americans protect against cyber hacks and attacks. I thank Senator Hatch, and Reps. Eshoo and Brooks for their hard work on this timely bill.” “As technology evolves and becomes even more integrated in our daily lives, the number of cyberattacks hurting Americans will only increase if action is not taken,” said Brooks. “Having strong passwords, regularly installing software updates, and establishing a set of online security best practices is the kind of cyber hygiene necessary to protect private and sensitive information. Federal agencies, companies, and individuals need to prioritize online security management to ensure the safe use of electronic devices. I am proud to work with Congresswoman Eshoo, Senator Hatch and Senator Markey on a bill that works to keep Americans safe online and less susceptible to cybercrime.” ‘WannaCry’, the software that locked thousands of computers in more than 150 countries, took advantage of a software vulnerability that was known and patchable since March of this year. Organizations and individuals practicing good cyber hygiene by installing updates in a timely manner may have been able to dramatically limit the impact of this attack. While the United States wasn’t hit as hard as other countries by this particular attack, the U.S. is still as susceptible to these as attacks as other countries. Good cyber hygiene best practices must be a key part of the overall cyber defense strategy. The Promoting Good Cyber Hygiene Act would help both system administrators and consumers better protect their networks and devices against known cyber threats by: Establishing a baseline set of voluntary best practices; Ensuring these practices are reviewed and updated annually; Making the established best practices available in a clear and concise manner on a publicly accessible website; and Instructing the Department of Homeland Security to study cybersecurity threats relating to Internet of Things devices. ###
06.27.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on CBO Score of Senate Trumpcare Bill June 27th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office released its analysis of Senate Republicans’ Trumpcare bill: “Today’s report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office confirms that the Senate Republicans’ version of Trumpcare is just as ‘mean’ and ‘heartless’ as the House version. Twenty-two million Americans losing their health coverage is twenty-two million too many. The increase in premiums and out-of-pocket costs will force even more Americans with chronic illnesses to go without the medications they need to survive. “This bill is a hodgepodge of unworkable ideas that will hurt children and families across our country, damage our national economy and diminish the character of our country.” ###
06.26.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Senate Version of Trumpcare June 26th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after Senate Republicans unveiled a discussion draft of Trumpcare: “After weeks of secrecy and backroom meetings, the Senate Republicans released their version of Trumpcare. The President called the House Republican bill “mean,” and now the American people can see that this bill is just as heartless and cruel. “The Senate version will inflict the same damage on the American people as the House bill: it provides less coverage to fewer Americans at higher costs and imposes a crushing age tax on people between the ages of 50-64, and all of this without regard for the fact that health care represents 1/6th of our national economy. The disastrous cuts to Medicaid will destroy jobs across America and force low-income families and seniors with long-term care needs to choose between life and death. “And the bill is, plain and simple, a plan to cut taxes for the wealthy by destroying health care to tens of millions of fellow Americans. America is losing its moral moorings.” ###
06.07.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill Providing Relief to Genocide Victims in Iraq and Syria Passes House June 7th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— On June 6th, legislation sponsored by Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Congressman Chris Smith’s (R-NJ) to provide emergency relief to victims of the ISIS genocide in Iraq and Syria passed the House of Representatives. H.R. 390, the Iraq and Syria Genocide Emergency Relief and Accountability Act requires the U.S. government to direct humanitarian aid to entities assisting displaced religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria targeted for genocide by ISIS. The legislation also includes important provisions that will help the international community document the crimes against humanity that have been committed by ISIS, hold the perpetrators accountable, and ensure we learn from the horrors we have witnessed over the last six years so that we can one day prevent another genocide from occurring. “Tens of thousands of religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria continue to face persecution at the hands of ISIS and they need our help now. H.R. 390 will provide urgently needed humanitarian relief to the survivors of what both the Congress and the State Department have labeled as genocide and ensure we hold the perpetrators of these crimes accountable,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “I thank Chairman Smith for his passionate leadership on this issue and I look forward to this aid package moving quickly through the Senate and to the President’s desk for his signature,” said Eshoo. “On May 9, 2016, the House passed Jeff Fortenberry’s genocide resolution 393 to 0. A few days later, Secretary of State John Kerry declared ISIS atrocities to be a genocide,” said Congressman Smith, who recently witnessed the devastation first hand in a trip to a displaced persons camp in Erbil, Iraq. “Despite this, the existential threat to Christians, Yazidis and other minorities continues to this day.” “Some of the fortunate ones have made it to relative safety in Erbil. While there I saw much joy, love and courage, despite the loss of family and friends to ISIS. They had hope. The children sang Christmas carols with smiles and reverence—but astonishingly—last year—or any year—they have not gotten any assistance from the United States,” said Smith. Christians have lived in Iraq since the 1st century and in 2002 the Christian population was 1.4 million. By 2013, due to sectarian violence and targeting of Christians, only 500,000 remained. By the end of 2015, less than 250,000 Christians remained in Iraq. H.R. 390 is supported by various groups, including the Knights of Columbus, Family Research Council, U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission (Southern Baptist Convention), In Defense of Christians, 21st Century Wilberforce Initiative, ADF International, Baylor University, Commission for International Justice and Accountability, Aid the Church in Need USA, Open Doors, Chaldean Assyrian Syriac Business Alliance, A Demand for Action, Yezidi Human Rights Organization International, Religious Freedom Institute, Center for Religious Freedom (Hudson Institute), Christian Solidarity Worldwide, Syrian Accountability Project, Genocide Watch, Civitas Maxima, Iraq Foundation, EPIC, Community of Sant’Egidio and International Christian Concern. ###
06.06.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Suspension of Jared Kushner’s Security Clearance June 6th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— On June 1st, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) joined with 52 House colleagues in calling for the security clearance of senior advisor and son-in-law to the President, Jared Kushner, to be suspended. The letter follows multiple reports that Kushner is a subject of the FBI’s ongoing probe into possible collusion between Russian officials and the Trump campaign. “Every day we receive more troubling reports about this Administration’s complete disregard for our national security,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “Reports that Jared Kushner met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak, and Vnesheconombank, and did not report in U.S. disclosure forms that he had participated in these meetings raises national security concerns. He also reportedly asked the Russians to set up secret channels for future meetings. These are material omissions that potentially amount to a criminal offense.” Last week, it was widely reported that Jared Kushner is now a subject of the FBI’s investigation. Kushner reportedly met with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and other Russian officials to discuss the opening of a secret line of communication between the Trump transition team and the Kremlin. Kushner then failed to disclose this and other meetings with Russian officials on his application for a security clearance. Knowingly falsifying or concealing information on this application is a felony. The full text of the letter can be found here.
06.01.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Condemns Trump’s Decision to Withdraw from Paris Climate Accord June 1st, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement today after President Trump announced that he intends to withdraw from the landmark Paris Climate Accord: “The President’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement is deeply irresponsible and dangerous. This landmark agreement is a shining example of American leadership on the global stage and our commitments are firmly grounded in U.S. law. With this action, the President has surrendered that leadership and put our planet at greater risk of catastrophic sea level rise, severe weather, and other impacts which threaten our health, environment, and national security. “The genius of the Paris Agreement is that each country’s commitments are voluntary, meaning the only reason to exit the agreement is a political one. The President has once again put politics over country by making the U.S. one of only three countries, including Syria and Nicaragua, out of over 190 that will not be parties to the agreement. After years of calling climate change a “hoax”, the President and his party have now thrown away leadership of the 21st century clean energy economy to China and the rest of the world.” ###
05.25.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Updated Trumpcare CBO Score May 25th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s updated score for the Trumpcare bill passed by House Republicans earlier this month: “The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has once again put out the facts on Trumpcare, and they further confirm how damaging the legislation is. After the dead-of-night changes by Republicans, the legislation provides less coverage for higher costs, with 23 million Americans projected to lose their health insurance. Essential health benefits will be eviscerated for millions of Americans, creating huge cost increases for basic coverage such as maternity care, addiction and mental health treatment, and emergency services. The bill also strips away Medicaid from millions of low-income families and children, and imposes a crushing age tax on older Americans. “Republican and Democratic Senators alike have said Trumpcare is dead on arrival in the upper chamber. We can only hope it stays that way.” ###
05.22.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo on Caltrain Funding Decision: This is an ‘Alleluia’ Moment May 22nd, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao’s decision to fully fund the Caltrain Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project (PCEP). “The announcement by the Secretary of Transportation today to fully fund the electrification of Caltrain is a clear victory for my constituents and the people of the Bay Area. “This critical upgrade is one of the key transportation job creators in the country. It will enhance the spine of the Silicon Valley transportation system. It’s a win for the environment. It’s a win for the tenaciousness of the Bay Area Congressional Delegation, led by Leader Pelosi and our Senators Feinstein and Harris. “Passenger service began on this corridor during the presidency of Abraham Lincoln over 150 years ago. Today, I am proud that our generation is able to build something worthy of the future of our region. “This is an ‘Alleluia’ moment.” ###
05.18.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Agreement to Preserve and Upgrade Buena Vista Mobile Home Park May 18th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) announced that following her efforts to secure $26 million in federal funding, the Santa Clara County Housing Authority (HACSC) and the Buena Vista Mobile Home Park in Palo Alto have reached an agreement that will ensure the preservation and upgrade of the mobile home park and allow its 400 low-income residents to remain in their homes. The agreement follows months of negotiations and an extensive process by the Housing Authority to obtain a fair market value appraisal and secure a park operator. Eshoo’s office worked closely with Supervisor Joe Simitian and HACSC to obtain approval from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to use federal funding. “Today is cause for great celebration for the residents of the Buena Vista Mobile Home Park. I’m proud to have helped secure $26 million in federal funding to complement the overall package to save the homes of 400 Palo Altans. These resources will also help to renovate over 100 units of affordable housing for the community,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “The superb leadership of Supervisor Joe Simitian, the efforts of the Santa Clara County Housing Authority, the City of Palo Alto, and the County of Santa Clara have brought about a remarkable success for our mutual constituents.” The agreement between HACSC and the Buena Vista Mobile Home Park ensures that the 400 people living on site retain a right to lease a space or apartment. The upgrades will also improve the park’s utilities and replace approximately twelve “studio” apartments with twelve or more new rental apartments. Congresswoman Eshoo spearheaded the effort to obtain HUD’s approval for HACSC to use federal funding for the project, working with former Secretary Julian Castro from February 2015 until Inauguration Day in January, 2017. ###
05.18.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Appointment of a Special Prosecutor to Investigate Trump-Russia Connection May 18th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.- Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate the Trump-Russia connection. “The appointment of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as Special Prosecutor sends a strong signal of confidence to the American people as the investigation of possible ties between President Trump’s campaign and the Russian government moves forward. I had the privilege of working with Director Mueller as a member of the House Intelligence Committee, and his integrity and experience make him a superb choice to lead this investigation.” ###
05.18.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Net Neutrality Vote May 18th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement today after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to begin the process to eliminate net neutrality protections. “Today, FCC Chairman Ajit Pai began the wrecking process to overturn net neutrality, demonstrating that he is on the wrong side of history, consumers and the public interest. The approval of the NPRM at the FCC begins the process to remove rules that advance competition, innovation, small businesses and entrepreneurs. This reversal will benefit the interests of the largest Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and is a significant loss for consumers. “Three years ago, The American people spoke loudly and clearly in support of rules to protect free speech and online commerce from the powerful grip of corporate gatekeepers. As the public comment process begins, the American people again have the opportunity to make their voices heard.” The FCC’s public comment process is now open. The public can comment through the FCC’s website here: https://www.fcc.gov/ecfs/search/proceedings?q=name:((17-108)) ###
05.17.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Speier, Panetta Statement: Update on FAA Response Regarding Aircraft Noise May 17th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Representatives Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Jackie Speier (CA-14) and Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) released the following update on the Federal Aviation Administration’s response to address the issue of noise from air traffic in their Congressional Districts. “In early December 2016, the final reports with recommendations of the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals and the San Francisco International Airport/Community Roundtable were sent to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for review and action. “Our offices have been engaged with the new Western-Pacific Regional Administrator of the FAA and his team since early this year, and we have continued to relay the public’s interest in a response to the recommendations as soon as possible. Each of us has spoken directly with FAA Administrator Michael Huerta regarding the status of the FAA’s response to the 109 recommendations contained in these reports to address the ongoing issue of aircraft noise in our Congressional Districts. “Administrator Huerta confirmed he has received a draft response from his Western-Pacific team who have completed extensive technical work and his team in Washington D.C. is conducting a final review of the document at this time. Administrator Huerta told us that the FAA is committed to this Initiative process and continuing to work on the response to the recommendations. “We have been advised that the FAA will send their completed document to the Department of Transportation (DOT) within a month for final review and authorization. It is not known at this time how long the DOT will take to authorize the release of the response; we will continue to follow-up and will release the response as soon as we receive it.” ###
05.16.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Reports President Trump Shared Classified Information with Russian Officials May 16th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement on news reports that President Trump shared classified information with Russian officials last week: “The reports that the President shared highly classified information with Russian diplomats are deeply troubling for several reasons. As a veteran of the House Intelligence Committee, I know full well the jeopardy this places our intelligence officers in; the damage this inflicts on an allied country who entrusted the U.S. with the intelligence; and how handing over the most sensitive information to the least trustworthy country – Russia – threatens our national security and our military who serve to protect us. “The President makes the case almost daily as to why an independent, bipartisan commission is essential to investigate what ties exist between the President and Russia.” ###
05.10.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Trump Firing FBI Director Comey May 10th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump fired FBI Director James Comey: “The firing of FBI Director James Comey, who was investigating the President and his ties to Russia, is deeply troubling. It is even more troubling that Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who said he would recuse himself from this investigation, played a direct role in Director Comey’s termination. “The President fired Sally Yates, then he fired Preet Bharara, and now he has fired Director Comey, all people who were investigating the President. This is not a coincidence. “I called for a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate the President and his ties to Russia long before his Administration began. The pattern of this Administration thus far shows that only an independent commission or special prosecutor, free from the grasp of the President, will be able to fully and credibly continue this investigation.” ###
05.08.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Effort for Transparency of Russian State-Sponsored Television May 8th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) sent a letter to Ajit Pai, Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on May 3rd, urging him to consider applying broadcast transparency requirements to state-sponsored media outlets like RT, formerly known as Russia Today. The letter, also signed by Reps. Mike Doyle, David Cicilline, Judy Chu, Jimmy Panetta, Jerry McNerney, Mark Takano, Doris Matsui, Peter Welch, Eric Swalwell and Dave Loebsack, follows a declassified report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence that found RT played a role in the propaganda efforts of Russia to influence the outcome of the 2016 U.S. election. “It is a fundamental principle in the American broadcast system that the public has a right to know who is behind programming on our public airwaves that is designed to persuade them,” the Members wrote in the letter. “Given RT’s efforts to hide its true intentions, we believe it is critical for the American people to have a clearer picture of the true source of this channel’s programming.” The letter urges Chairman Pai to apply the FCC’s sponsorship identification rules and public file ownership disclosure requirements to state-sponsored channels like RT, which is broadcast over the air in certain television markets. RT has a history of meddling in elections dating back to 2012 when it pushed anti-U.S. messaging to undermine trust in U.S. democracy. The U.S. intelligence community concluded that it influenced the 2016 elections by serving as a platform for Kremlin messaging to Russian and international audiences. The media outlet has most recently come under fire after it was reported that former Trump National Security Adviser Michael Flynn received over $45,000 for attending a gala in Moscow and giving an RT interview. The FCC’s sponsorship identification rules require on-air written or verbal announcements identifying the sponsor of commercial, political, or controversial content. In addition, broadcast licensees are required to maintain a public inspection file containing information such as station ownership information. The text of the letter can be found here.
05.04.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo: Trumpcare is ‘wrong, immoral, dishonors my constituents and American people’ May 4th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the passage of Trumpcare. “Today House Republicans voted once again to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Their so-called health care bill will rob 24 million Americans from insurance coverage, including the evisceration of essential health benefits like ambulatory patient services, emergency services, hospitalization, maternity, newborn care, mental health and substance use disorder services, prescription drugs, rehabilitation services and devices, laboratory services, preventive services and pediatric services. “Trumpcare will result in less coverage for fewer Americans at higher costs; imposes a crushing tax on older Americans between the ages of 50-64; and strips away Medicaid from millions of low-income families and children. They have brought their legislation to the Floor with an amendment written in the dead-of-night that will push Americans with pre-existing conditions off their insurance and into high risk pools where they will face soaring costs with less coverage and restricted care. And their process is as bad as the bill. It has not been subjected for analysis for costs and impacts by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), and the American people have no idea what it will cost. “This bill is wrong, it’s immoral and it dishonors my constituents, the people of our country and the great values of our nation.” This legislation is opposed by 97 organizations, from seniors, to doctors, nurses, hospitals, veterans, religious organizations and countless advocacy organizations: AARP Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Academy of Spinal Cord Injury Professionals ACCSES AFSCME AIDS United American Academy of Family Phsyicians American Academy of Pediatrics American Academy of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation American Association of People with Disabilities American Association on Health and Disability American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network American Cochlear Implant Alliance American College of Nurse-Midwives American College of Physicians American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists’ (ACOG) American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine American Diabetes Association American Heart Association American Lung Association American Medical Association American Medical Rehabilitation Providers Association American Music Therapy Association American Network of Community Options and Resources American Occupational Therapy Association American Osteopathic Association American Physical Therapy Association American Psychiatric Association American Psychological Association American Society of Clinical Oncology American Therapeutic Recreation Association American Thoracic Society Association for Education and Rehabilitation of the Blind and Visually Impaired (AER) Association of American Medical Colleges Association of Assistive Technology Act Programs Association of University Centers on Disabilities Autistic Self Advocacy Network Brain Injury Association of America Cancer Action Network Center for Medicare Advocacy Children’s Hospital Association Children’s Leadership Council Chronic Illness and Disability Partnership Clinician Task Force Consumers Union Council for Exceptional Children Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Easterseals Epilepsy Foundation Hearing Loss Association of America HIV Medicine Association JDRF Justice in Aging Lakeshore Foundation LeadingAge Legal Action Center March of Dimes National Alliance of State and Territorial AIDS Directors National Alliance on Mental Illness National Association for the Advancement of Orthotics and Prosthetics National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities (NACDD) National Association of Nurse Practitioners in Women’s Health National Association of Urban Hospitals National Council on Independent Living National Disability Rights Network National Education Association National Farmers Union National Multiple Sclerosis Society National Organization for Rare Disorders National Partnership for Women & Families National Rural Health Association National Viral Hepatitis Roundtable National Women’s Law Center NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice Planned Parenthood Federation of America Rehabilitation Engineering and Assistive Technology Society of North America Spina Bifida Association The Arc The Myositis Association The Simon Foundation for Continence The Paralyzed Veterans of America Treatment Access Expansion Project Trust for America’s Health Unite 2 Fight Paralysis United Cerebral Palsy WomenHeart: The National Coalition for Women with Heart Disease California Medical Association California Hospital Association Blue Shield of California University of California System International Brotherhood of Teamsters Bread for the World Drug Policy Alliance American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) American Association of University Women (AAUW) The Episcopal Church Catholic Health Association of the United States
05.02.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Omnibus Bill May 2nd, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C—Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following passage of the Omnibus spending bill for Fiscal Year 2017. “The Omnibus spending bill funds the entire federal government and its passage on May 4th and avoided a government shutdown. Democrats won significant victories on critical investments for our country. Some highlights include $100 million for the electrification of Caltrain, sending a strong signal to the Administration that Congress supports this shovel-ready project; restoration of students’ access to year-round Pell Grants, and increased funding for the National Institutes of Health of $2 billion. The spending bill also includes increased funding for wildfire and federal highway emergency relief and protects 99 percent of the EPA’s budget. The Omnibus does not include funding for the President’s border wall. “There were over 160 ‘poison pill’ riders in the bill which were eliminated, including provisions to defund Planned Parenthood and undermine the Affordable Care Act.” ###
04.28.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Decries Pai Effort to Undo Critical Net Neutrality Rules April 28th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following FCC Chairman Ajit Pai’s announcement to reverse the FCC’s 2015 Open Internet Order. “There is a clear theme in Ajit Pai’s brief tenure as FCC Chairman—dismantlement. First it was the evisceration of privacy protections on the internet and today it is net neutrality rules that advance competition, innovation, small businesses and entrepreneurs. This reversal benefits the interests of the largest Internet Service Providers (ISPs). “The rules today protect consumers and small businesses from the worst possible harms ISPs can inflict online. Repealing these protections is an assault on what has made the internet what it is… an open and dynamic platform, with consequences for consumers and our economy.” ###
04.07.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on U.S. Airstrikes in Syria April 7th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the U.S. airstrikes in Syria. “The horrors the Syrian people have been subjected to by Bashar al-Assad are beyond any boundaries of human behavior. “Last night’s airstrikes appear to be proportional to the use of chemical weapons. However, should the President intend to escalate U.S. military involvement in Syria, he must come to Congress for an Authorization for Use of Military Force.” ###
04.06.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Recusal of House Intelligence Chair Devin Nunes from Russia Investigation April 6th, 2017 Washington, D.C.- Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following Chairman Devin Nunes’ decision to recuse himself from the House Intelligence Committee probe into Russia’s involvement in the 2016 election. “House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes damaged his credibility on the investigation into Russia’s role in our elections, and his recusal is long overdue. While a recusal is appropriate, an independent, bipartisan commission would best serve the American people to investigate fully what ties exist between the president, his associates and his family with the Russians.” ###
04.05.2017	+ SHARE Democratic Leader Pelosi, House Democratic Members Launch Discharge Petition on Eshoo Legislation Requiring the President to Release Tax Returns April 5th, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, together with Reps. Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Bill Pascrell (NJ-9), Richard Neal (MA-1) and Hakeem Jeffries (NY-8) launched a discharge petition on Rep. Eshoo’s Presidential Tax Transparency Act. A discharge petition requires 218 signatures from Members of the House to force a vote on the bipartisan legislation which requires the President and all future presidents and nominees to publicly disclose their tax returns. President Trump is the first president since Watergate to refuse to release his tax information to the public. Full release of the President’s tax returns through passage of the Presidential Tax Transparency Act will provide the public with clear information as to his potential conflicts of interest and entanglements with foreign governments and businesses. A recent Washington Post-ABC News poll found that 74 percent of Americans, including 53 percent of Republicans, believe the President should release his tax returns. “All roads lead back to the President’s tax returns, and the light they can shine on his actions,” said Leader Pelosi. “Week after week, Republicans have voted to help President Trump stonewall the American people. What are Republicans so desperate to keep hidden? Democrats are demanding a vote to make President Trump’s tax returns public, so that the American people can see for themselves the extent of his financial interests, and whether they are steering his decisions.” “In 2011, Mr. Trump said he would release his tax returns if he ran for president, yet the American people are still in the dark on what conflicts of interest this President is hiding,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “We’re taking this step today to force a vote on this legislation because President Trump has more potential conflicts of interest than any president in our history. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act ensures that all future presidents and nominees will never be able to hide their conflicts of interest from the American people.” “Every President since Gerald Ford – on both sides of the aisle – has released his tax returns to the American people,” said Congressman Neal. “There is significant precedent for President Trump to do so, yet he continues to withhold his returns. I call on President Trump to release his tax returns.” “The American people deserve to know whether or not the President is using his position to lead this country forward or simply to line his pockets,” said Congressman Pascrell. “We know that President Trump is still personally profiting from his businesses while leading this nation. What is far less clear, however, is whether President Trump’s interest are aligned with the country or with the Russian oligarchs that have been and still may be his business partners. The President must release his tax returns, or Congress must serve as a check and demand them, to help substantiate or negate these unprecedented concerns.” “Donald Trump is a living, breathing conflict of interest. He came to Washington promising to drain the swamp,” Congressman Jeffries said. “Instead, the President has muddied the waters in a manner that would make Richard Nixon proud. Every President since Gerald Ford has produced his tax returns to the American people. Donald Trump should not be held to a different standard and that’s why this discharge petition is so important.” Background on the Presidential Tax Transparency Act: According to the Tax History Project, every President since 1976 has released his tax returns while in office, but this practice is not required by current law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act requires the President and all major party Presidential nominees to publicly disclose their previous three years of tax returns with the Office of Government Ethics or Federal Election Commission. “Major parties” are defined in the tax code as parties whose candidate received more than 25 percent of the popular vote in the previous presidential election. If a president or candidate fails to disclose their tax returns, the Secretary of the Treasury is required to provide redacted copies for public disclosure. # # #
04.03.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches 2017 Congressional Art Competition April 3rd, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) announced today this year’s district-wide Congressional Art Competition to discover and celebrate talented high school artists and their work. “Creativity and freedom of expression are bedrock American values,” Eshoo said. “For 30 years the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged the artistic talent of high school students across our country, and I’m proud to keep this tradition flourishing by launching this year’s competition in California’s 18th Congressional District.” About the Competition All high school students from throughout the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate and exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students can participate by submitting their works of art to Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by Monday, April 24th. A local reception will be held to announce the winner and honor all participants. The winning artist whose work is chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists has the distinction of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of our nation’s Capitol for one year. He or she will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines. The winner will attend a reception with other talented young artists at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website. # # #
03.30.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Decries FCC Decision to Harm Low-Income Broadband Users March 30th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after FCC Chairman Ajit Pai announced he would reverse the Lifeline Broadband Provider designation process. “What a week in Washington. On 3/29 the FCC Chairman targeted the FCC’s Lifeline program which provides access to phone and broadband services to low-income Americans. He plans to roll back the designation process, making it harder for broadband providers to offer nationwide broadband service to those who can’t afford it. His message was also clear: lower-income children and families will not have access to these critical services, including 9-1-1. “Chairman Pai has said his primary goal at the FCC is to help close the digital divide in our country, but his actions don’t match his words. Instead, he’s unraveling the safety net for low- income citizens, and this decision will expand, not close, the digital divide.” ###
03.28.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Trump’s Executive Order Eliminating the Clean Power Plan March 28th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump signed a new executive order eliminating the Clean Power Plan. “Today’s Executive Order eliminating President Obama’s Clean Power Plan and other climate initiatives is a monumental attack on the health of the American people. The President’s Order contradicts the majority of Americans who believe we must be proactive about climate change. This will do little to help the coal miners that the President has promised to defend. As the CEO of Murray Energy said this week, the President’s Order will not bring coal mining jobs back to the U.S. given broader market forces. Climate change is a crisis of existential proportions, and recent trends of severe weather, drought, sea level rise, and natural disasters paint a dark future if we fail to act. “We have the science, the knowhow, and the capacity to change course, yet we have an Administration that refuses to accept scientific facts. It’s noble and necessary to protect our earth and the health of our children, and we must continue to fight against actions that undermine our progress.” ###
03.24.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Republican Decision to Pull Affordable Care Act Repeal from the Floor March 24th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement today after Speaker Ryan pulled the Republican repeal of the Affordable Care Act from the House floor. “Today is a great victory for the American people. They made their voices heard that they rejected having 24 million people thrown off their health insurance policies. I also believe they want continuing improvements to the Affordable Care Act.” ###
03.23.2017	+ SHARE **URGENT/IMPORTANT NOTICE** Eshoo, Panetta Joint Town Hall Meeting in Santa Cruz County Postponed March 23rd, 2017 Capitola, CA — Reps. Anna Eshoo (CA-18) and Jimmy Panetta’s (CA-20) Town Hall Meeting has been rescheduled to Saturday, April 1st at 10:00 a.m. due to changes in the voting schedule in Washington, D.C. Who: Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Rep. Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) California Secretary of Natural Resources John Laird What: In-person Town Hall Meeting When: Saturday 1 April from 10:00 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. (Same time/same place) Where: New Brighton Middle School Performing Arts Center 250 Washburn Avenue, Capitola, California 95010 ###
03.16.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo, Thompson Reintroduce Legislation to Make Health Insurance More Affordable for Families in High Cost Areas March 16th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Today, U.S. Reps. Anna Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) reintroduced the Fair Access to Health Care Act, legislation to expand the eligibility for premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “The ACA has been successful in helping lower income Americans buy private health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level,” Eshoo said. “While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families, there are others in high-cost areas who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does not account for the high cost of living.” Eshoo continued, “The Fair Access to Health Care Act ties health insurance subsidies to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal poverty level. In doing so, we can improve the ACA by expanding access to health insurance, help the middle class and improve our nation’s health.” “No one should have to go without the healthcare they need. The ACA has been tremendously helpful for many working families, but some hardworking Americans in particularly high-cost areas still struggle to afford health insurance. They shouldn’t be left behind. I’m proud to work with Rep. Eshoo to help more Americans get the care they need,” Rep. Thompson said. Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. At this level, an individual making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for premium tax credits. However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax credits doesn’t take into account the cost of living for different geographic areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as a family living in areas with a lower cost of living. The Fair Access to Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to be increased proportionally based on an area’s cost of living. ###
03.14.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Anniversary of Religious Minorities Genocide Resolution March 14th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the one-year anniversary of the House passing her bipartisan resolution with Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), which defined the persecution of Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria as genocide. “On this day last year the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously sent a message around the world by declaring that the atrocities perpetrated by ISIL against religious and ethnic minorities in Iraq and Syria include war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. “The passage of this resolution is deeply meaningful to me as this genocide is a repeat of what my family endured. My grandparents were persecuted and driven from the Middle East because they were Christians. “The anniversary of this resolution is also a stark reminder of the work that still needs to be done. We are still seeing the systematic extermination of the world’s oldest Christian and minority communities in the Middle East. The United States must continue to work to provide humanitarian aid, hold the perpetrators of these crimes accountable, and provide faster refugee processing for these most vulnerable communities.” ###
03.13.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement Following CBO Evaluation of GOP Bill to Replace ACA March 13th, 2017 Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s evaluation of the House Republicans’ bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “During the markup of the American Health Care Act at the Energy and Commerce Committee, the Republicans emphasized that their legislation would cost less and cover more people than the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “Today, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) put out the facts. The repeal plan will reduce benefits and increase costs. Period. If Republicans have their way in passing this legislation, 14 million people will lose their coverage in 2018, and 24 million will lose their coverage in 2026, bringing the uninsured rate to a staggering 52 million. For those who actually get to keep their health insurance, they will pay on average of 15% to 20% more than their current premiums for less coverage. The most vulnerable Americans in particular will see an immeasurable increase in out-of-pocket costs. “This bill doesn’t deserve one vote in Congress.” ###
03.10.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement Following JCC Bomb Threats in Congressional District March 10th, 2017 Washington, D.C.– Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following a string of bomb threats at Jewish Community Centers in her Congressional District. “I stand with the Jewish community in Los Gatos and throughout our entire Congressional District and condemn the cowardly acts of hatred and intimidation directed at them. I condemn the Antisemitism and call for a vigorous investigation to bring the guilty forward to face justice.” ###
03.07.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Trump’s New Travel Ban Executive Order March 7th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C— Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement after President Trump signed a new executive order banning refugees from six countries entering the United States. “The Administration’s ill-conceived travel ban has reminded Americans that we have an obligation to uphold the Constitution and the values that make this country so great. The President’s new Executive Order signed yesterday in response to the first order which was struck down by the Courts does not make America safer. “Making small tweaks such as exempting Iraq from the list of banned countries, omitting references to religion, and phasing in the new rules does not change the fact that these policies are antithetical to the values of our country. Closing down our refugee resettlement program for 120 days and restricting travel to the U.S. based only on nationality harms our national security. These policies are being used as a powerful recruiting tool by ISIS and homegrown terrorist groups. The chilling effects of the last executive order have been felt world-wide, not only by travelers to the U.S. but our own citizens in our schools, hospitals and businesses. “The refugees the President has shut our doors to are not terrorists—they are the victims of terrorism and they have already been through extreme vetting. As a child of immigrants, I will continue to protect our national security, stand up for refugees, and vigorously oppose the Administration’s shameful ban.” ###
03.04.2017	+ SHARE Congresswoman Eshoo’s Upcoming Town Hall March 4th, 2017 Tomorrow, I’ll be hosting an in-person Town Hall Meeting in Campbell to answer my constituents’ questions and hear their concerns. Be sure to tune in to my Facebook page for a live stream of the event.
03.02.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo: Sessions Should Resign Immediately March 2nd, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C—Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “The Attorney General Jeff Sessions, the top law enforcement official in our nation lied under oath about meeting with the Russians, and for this he should resign immediately. Lying under oath when testifying before the Senate during his nomination hearing makes him unfit to serve. “The questions continue to mount about Russia’s role in our national elections, who met with whom, if there was any collusion on the part of the Trump campaign with the Russians, and why the President consistently defends Vladimir Putin. This is why a bipartisan independent commission should be established to get the facts and pursue the truth. The American people deserve to know who did what and the extent of the damage to our democracy.” ###
02.17.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on US DOT’s Decision to Delay Caltrain Funding February 17th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the Department of Transportation’s decision to delay/kill funding for the Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project. “I never imagined that the electrification of a train would be subjected to such brutal, partisan politics. This is not a Democratic project nor is it a Republican project. It is about the modernization of an outdated commuter system that is the spine of the transportation system of the Peninsula and the Silicon Valley region. This project has met every requirement of the Department of Transportation including planning, environmental approval, broad community support and strong local funding, including citizens taxing themselves. The only requirement it didn’t meet was a political one. The Department’s decision today delays any award of federal funding until after March 1st when Caltrain’s contracts are due to expire. “The electrification of Caltrain is a shovel-ready project which would create thousands of jobs in the Bay Area and employ thousands in other states. It would be built by American workers and built with American products. “I’m currently exploring options to get federal funding for the project, but March 1st looms heavily.” ###
02.15.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn February 15th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following the resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn. “The resignation of National Security Adviser Michael Flynn does not simply close the door on a brief tenure in the Trump Administration. It heightens the urgency for a bipartisan, independent commission to fully investigate Russia’s role in our elections and its ties to the White House. The Trump campaign was replete with senior officials with ties to Vladimir Putin, beginning with Carter Page communicating with senior Russian officials, Paul Manafort accepting millions in cash for representing Russian interests in Ukraine, and candidate Trump praising Putin and urging Russian hackers to target Secretary Clinton. Furthermore, the intelligence community has produced an unassailable analysis that Russia did work to influence our national elections, including hacking of U.S. political operatives and state-sponsored propaganda in an effort to undermine our democratic process. “It is now public knowledge that the Administration knew about General Flynn’s conversations with the Russians as far back as December 2016. According to White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer, the President knew his National Security Adviser was lying about the calls, yet there were no steps taken to remove him or investigate his ties to Russia. “We know what we know now, not because the Administration informed the American people, but because of excellent journalism. “Why was this information withheld? “Who authorized Flynn’s contact with the Russian Ambassador? “Were there policy promises made by General Flynn to the Russians while President Obama placed sanctions on Russia for interfering in our national elections? “To whom did Flynn report the details of his conversation? “Why did the President fail to heed the warnings raised by the Department of Justice about Flynn’s vulnerability to Russian blackmail and keep him in place? “These unanswered questions deserve answers. There must be an independent investigation to reach the whole truth. The American people deserve to know everything on how tight Putin’s grip is on a U.S. President, and that our democracy cannot be hacked, toyed with, diminished or manipulated. ###
02.11.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls On Joint Committee on Taxation to Request Trump’s Tax Returns February 11th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Thursday, February 9th, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) sent a letter to Chairman of the Joint Committee on Taxation Orrin Hatch, urging him to use his existing statutory authority to request the tax returns of President Donald Trump. Under Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Joint Committee on Taxation has the power to request any tax return from the Secretary of Treasury, including that of the sitting president. Upon review of the tax returns, the Committee then has the power to release the returns to the public. “President Trump is the first candidate and president since Watergate to refuse to release his tax information to the public,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “Given the president’s significant worldwide interests and his long list of potential conflicts, I strongly urge the Committee to use its existing authority to immediately request his tax returns, review them appropriately, and disclose the returns to the public.” Eshoo introduced the bipartisan Presidential Tax Transparency Act in January, which would require the president and all future presidents and presidential candidates to release their tax returns to the public. The full text of the letter is attached. ###
02.10.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Unanimous Appeals Court Ruling Against Refugee andTravel Ban February 10th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement after the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals unanimously refused to lift the nationwide halt on President Trump’s immigration ban. “The 9th Circuit’s unanimous ruling is a victory for our Constitution, and adds significantly to lower Court decisions. The Court recognized the ban harmed our national security, families and businesses. “This decision bolsters my belief that the timeless values embedded in our Constitution are alive and well, that we elect presidents, not monarchs, and that presidents are not above the law.” ###
02.07.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads California Democratic Delegation in Urging Transportation Agency to Approve Caltrain Funding February 7th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. — On February 3rd Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and the entire California Democratic Congressional delegation sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao, urging her to swiftly approve federal funding for the electrification of Caltrain. A $647 million federal grant for the project has been approved by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), and Secretary Chao must sign off on the funding before March 1st to prevent further delays on the project. “President Trump recently spoke about infrastructure investment stating that ‘We’ll fix our existing product before we build anything new. We will fix it first because we have a lot of things that are in bad shape.’ We share the commitment of the Administration to upgrade infrastructure that is in disrepair. This project satisfies that priority,” the Members wrote. The Peninsula Corridor Electrification Project (PCEP) modernizes the Caltrain Corridor by eliminating outdated diesel trains; increasing ridership; and decreasing pollution. PCEP will create over 9,600 jobs, including 1,300 located outside of California in Jacksonville, Florida; Salt Lake City, Utah; Humble, Texas; Richmond, Virginia and more. State and local funding comprise two-thirds of the total project cost and have been secured, making the project ready for construction. Last month, the FTA completed its rigorous evaluation of PCEP and favorably forwarded the proposed federal grant agreement to Congress for a mandatory 30-day review. The review period will be completed on February 18, 2017, and any further delays beyond March 1st could kill the project. This is neither a Republican project nor a Democratic project. It is a fully vetted upgrade to a critical transportation project that will bring about important economic gains in one of our nation’s most critical corridors—Silicon Valley. Congresswoman Eshoo led a similar letter to former Secretary Anthony Foxx in support of this project on October 4, 2016. The full text of the February 3rd letter is attached. ###
02.03.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Trump’s Supreme Court Nomination February 3rd, 2017 Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released a statement following President Trump’s selection of a nominee for the Supreme Court. “I do not support the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch and here is why: His judicial record is one which is antithetical to the values of my constituents: the protection of healthcare for women; consumer rights; the protection of our environment. Judge Gorsuch’s decisions have gone directly against the rights of women both in their careers and in their personal lives. In the Hobby Lobby case, he joined the majority in stripping reproductive rights from women in the workplace. By continuously supporting defunding Planned Parenthood, millions of women are left without essential healthcare services to detect breast cancer, cervical cancer and other special medical screenings vital to women. Judge Gorsuch has consistently voted against consumers, including in Strickland vs. UPS, where he dissented to a ruling giving a female UPS driver a chance to prove sex discrimination. Just last year, Judge Gorsuch ruled against a consumer who was wrongly charged hundreds of dollars in Elizabeth Hammond vs. Stamps.com, making it easier for companies to move their case to federal court, a move that favors big businesses and harms consumers. He has embraced a radical legal doctrine that would allow the courts to overrule agency experts implementing regulations to protect the American people. These laws would allow judges to overrule essential protections for Americans put in place by agencies involving the environment, essential workers’ rights and safeguards for consumers. If approved by the Senate, Judge Gorsuch’s decisions will affect the American people for decades to come. His record is far outside the judicial mainstream and the American people deserve better than a far right wing, activist judge that has a record of choosing the most powerful interests over those of extraordinary, ordinary Americans.” ###
02.01.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo: Steve Bannon’s Appointment to the NSC is ‘Outrageous’ February 1st, 2017 Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA), a veteran of the House Intelligence Committee, released a statement following Steve Bannon’s appointment to the National Security Council. “The appointment of Steve Bannon to the National Security Council is outrageous. As an eight year veteran of the House Intelligence Committee, I know full well that to leave out our nation’s top military official, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) who oversees the entire intelligence community, substantially weakens our national security. I’m aghast that the new President would place a person without any experience on this critical panel and leave out two of the most critical.” ###
01.30.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls on Trump to Reverse Immigration Ban January 30th, 2017 Tonight, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) called on President Trump to reverse his Executive Order on refugees and released the following statement: “Tonight I stand on the steps of the Supreme Court of our nation to condemn the President’s appalling, un-American, unconstitutional Executive Order. “The Statue of Liberty Values (SOLVE Act) is legislation I support because it will reverse the President’s Order and ensure that America remains the safe haven it has always been for refugees. ###
01.27.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President’s Unconstitutional Immigration Ban January 27th, 2017 Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the President’s unconstitutional immigration ban. “Time and time again President Trump has mocked, ridiculed, and threatened anyone who is different from him in our country. Today, he took steps to temporarily shut our doors to those seeking refuge in the United States. Our refugee resettlement program already contains the most stringent screening in the world including thirteen steps of tough vetting. The refugees that the President has shut our doors to today are not terrorists, they are the victims of terrorism who have occupied their homelands. As a child of immigrants, I will continue to stand up for refugees and vigorously oppose the Administration’s shameful efforts to rob hope from the hopeless.” ###
01.26.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls on Federal Agencies to Provide Relief After Storms Damage Northern California Counties January 26th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Because of the severity of recent storms and their impact on Santa Cruz, Santa Clara, and San Mateo counties, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) has requested swift assistance from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) for the affected areas, and federal assistance for highway repairs. The counties are grappling with the destructive aftermath following several rounds of powerful storms, including flooding, mudslides and erosion. On Thursday, Rep. Eshoo toured the areas affected by the storms with local elected officials to survey the damage. “I visited affected parts of my Congressional District and have witnessed firsthand the severe impacts of the storms,” Eshoo wrote in her letters to FEMA and FHWA. “My constituents are facing threats to their safety due to flooding, erosion, mudslides, and felled trees. It is imperative for the safety and well-being of my constituents that you approve this request as soon as possible.” The full text of the letters to FEMA can be found here and FWHA can be found here. ###
01.19.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Inauguration Attendance January 19th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) issued the following statement regarding the 58th Presidential Inauguration. “I’m attending the inauguration not to celebrate who is taking the oath, but to live up to mine. And by doing so, I hope to set a good example for all I’m privileged to represent.” ###
01.12.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails National Monument Designation of Cotoni-Coast Dairies January 12th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a decades-long effort to preserve one of California’s crown jewels, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) today hailed President Obama’s designation of the Cotoni-Coast Dairies lands in Santa Cruz County as a National Monument. Congresswoman Eshoo introduced legislation in 2015 to designate the 5,800-acre Cotoni-Coast Dairies property as a National Monument and called on the President to use his authority under the Antiquities Act to designate the land. The President’s designation will permanently protect the Cotoni-Coast Dairies lands which are located eight miles north of the City of Santa Cruz on the scenic Pacific Coast Highway. The property stretches from Highway 1 up into the Santa Cruz Mountains and is home to picturesque coastal terraces; 500 acres of redwood forest; six watersheds; and four known Native American archeological sites, with many others likely undiscovered. The name Cotoni-Coast Dairies honors the indigenous people who historically inhabited the land as well as its more recent history as a dairy. “This is the ‘stuff’ of a dream come true. After years of hard work by so many, this majestic property will be protected in perpetuity,” Eshoo said. “I salute our region’s environmental leaders and conservationists, the dedicated work of thousands of local citizens, local elected officials, conservation advocates, and tribal leaders who have worked so hard to secure this designation. And I thank President Obama for his extraordinary leadership of environmental conservation. Today’s proclamation ensures that this jewel will forever remain a part of California’s coastal crown, allowing future generations to learn from its history and enjoy its beauty.” Background Congresswoman Eshoo introduced legislation (H.R. 908) on February 12, 2015, to designate the Coast Dairies lands as a National Monument. She later joined with her House and Senate colleagues in a statewide effort (H.R. 3565) to expand the existing California Coastal National Monument to include several new parcels along the coast. Senators Boxer (D-CA) and Feinstein (D-CA), and Representatives Jared Huffman (D-CA) and Lois Capps (D-CA) worked together on the legislation which enjoyed the strong support of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation and the Department of Interior. When Republicans blocked the legislation, Eshoo called on the President to use his authority under the Antiquities Act of 1906 to designate the land. In addition to Cotoni-Coast Dairies, the President’s proclamation will add properties in Humboldt, San Luis Obispo, and Orange Counties to the existing California Coastal National Monument. After the dairy that operated on the Cotoni-Coast Dairies land folded in the 1950s, private development of luxury homes and a nuclear power plant were proposed. After decades of such pressures, the Coast Dairies Ranch was acquired in 1998 by the Save the Redwoods League with funding from several local organizations and foundations, including the David and Lucille Packard Foundation. On April 14, 2014, the property was officially donated to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) but it remains closed to the public. The National Monument designation ensures that this land is permanently protected, allows for enhanced conservation attention to the land, and ensures future safe public access to this national treasure. The California Coastal National Monument was originally established by President Clinton in 2000, to protect the picturesque offshore rocks and pinnacles along the 1,100-mile California Coast. President Obama’s proclamation prevents commercial logging and mining on the newly protected lands and requires BLM to develop a management plan in consultation with the local community that will allow safe public access to the property. National monuments can be designated by Congress under Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution, or by Presidential Proclamation under the Antiquities Act of 1906. Since 1906, presidents and Congress have created more than 100 national monuments. On April 20, 2012, President Obama designated the nearly 15,000 acre Fort Ord National Monument in Monterey County to preserve in perpetuity the recreational, scientific, and historical qualities of the former military training ground. ###
01.12.2017	+ SHARE Congresswoman Anna Eshoo Term Limits Herself and Relinquishes Ranking Member Post, Turns Attention to Health Care January 12th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) issued the following statement on her position with the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “During my time as Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, I have advocated for American consumers, advanced competition, worked to keep the internet open, accessible and free; delivered greater broadband deployment, increased public access to the internet, and advanced the use of technology across all sectors of our economy as it has become integral to our daily lives. It has been a privilege to do so. “But such a privilege is something to be shared, not hoarded. I believe that everyone in our Caucus has a great deal to offer and that our Party’s leaders should be chosen based on merit, energy and integrity, all hallmarks of my congressional district.” “Senior members like myself must consider the best interest of our Party and our need to develop leaders for the future. In other words, it’s time to walk my talk. I therefore am not seeking to be reelected Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee.” “Instead, I’m asking to retain a seat on the Subcommittee and to hopefully join the Health Subcommittee where I worked for many years. It’s my hope that my long local and federal experience creating and working with health care systems can be of use to the critical debate ahead.” “Our Party needs to attract and develop new leaders. That will happen when those of us who have had the mantel of leadership create opportunities for them to advance.” “I’m happy to do that today.” ###
01.10.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Legislation to Increase Energy Efficiency Passes House January 10th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Reps. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Adam Kinzinger’s (R-IL) legislation to increase efficiency of federal data centers passed the House by a unanimous voice vote. The legislation, the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act (H.R. 306), directs the Executive branch to harness information and communications technologies to improve energy efficiency and reduce energy use within the federal government. “As the nation’s largest energy user, landowner, and employer, the federal government should lead by example to improve the energy efficiency of its technology equipment and data centers,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “This legislation will reduce the federal government’s energy use, save taxpayer dollars, and set the standard for the private sector. I’m pleased to see this important policy once again pass the House, and I look forward to its swift consideration in the Senate.” “I’m proud to co-lead this bill which will improve federal agency cooperation and deployment of energy-efficient information technology. With H.R. 306, our goal is to save taxpayer money and reduce energy consumption at our federal data centers. I’m grateful to my colleague Rep. Eshoo for helping me bring this important issue to the House floor today and to all my House colleagues who helped it secure passage,” Congressman Kinzinger said. Background Similar versions of the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act authored by Rep. Eshoo passed the House in both the 113th and 114th Congresses by wide bipartisan margins. Rep. Eshoo first authored language in the Energy Policy Act of 2005, requiring a Report to Congress on the energy use and costs of data centers. This report was transmitted to Congress in 2007 and has served as an important driver of both private and public investment in energy efficiency in data centers. Data centers account for nearly 2 percent of all U.S. electricity consumption and 10 percent of the federal government’s electricity consumption. Improving energy efficiency at the federal government’s nearly 2,000 data centers could significantly reduce the government’s energy use and save billions in taxpayer dollars. The Center for Climate and Energy Solutions found that widespread adoption of energy efficient information technologies could save the federal government more than $5 billion in energy costs through 2020. The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to collaborate with each federal agency to create a strategy for the maintenance, purchase, and use of energy efficient and energy saving information and communication technologies and practices. Examples of these technologies and practices include advanced metering infrastructure; efficient data center strategies; improving IT asset utilization levels; building energy management; and secure telework and travel substitution tools. Section 3 of the bill focuses on improving the energy efficiency of federal data centers, including measures that will lay the groundwork for private sector improvements in data center energy efficiency. Specifically, the bill codifies the existing Data Center Energy Practitioner (DCEP) Program at DOE, which trains practitioners to inspect and evaluate the energy efficiency of data centers. The bill also establishes an Open Data Initiative for the purpose of making federal data center energy usage data available in a way that empowers further data center innovation, and requires DOE to develop a new metric to measure overall energy efficiency of data centers, and to work toward harmonizing international metrics for data center energy efficiency. The text of the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act is available here
01.05.2017	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Require Presidents and Presidential Candidates to Release Tax Returns January 5th, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) today introduced the Presidential Tax Transparency Act to require sitting presidents and presidential nominees of major parties to publicly disclose their three prior years of federal tax returns. Presidents would be required to disclose their returns in their annual disclosure documents, and nominees would be required to disclose their returns within 15 days of receiving their party’s nomination. The bill is the companion legislation to S. 26, authored by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR). “The American people justifiably expect those who seek or hold the highest office in the land to be open and transparent about their tax returns,” Eshoo said. “Tax returns contain vital information, such as were any taxes paid; were any charitable contributions made; were tax loopholes taken advantage of; and are any assets kept offshore. “For decades, Presidents and candidates have disclosed their tax returns but this bipartisan practice has never been required by law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act writes this important disclosure tradition into law. As former presidential candidate Mitt Romney stated last year, ‘tax returns provide the public with its sole confirmation of the veracity of a candidate’s representations regarding charities, priorities, wealth, tax conformance, and conflicts of interest.’” Background According to the Tax History Project, every President since 1976 has released their tax returns while in office, but this practice is not required by current law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act requires the President and all major party Presidential nominees to publicly disclose their previous three years of tax returns with the Office of Government Ethics or Federal Election Commission. “Major parties” are defined in the tax code as parties whose candidate received more than 25 percent of the popular vote in the previous presidential election. If a President or candidate fails to disclose their tax returns, the Secretary of the Treasury is required to provide redacted copies for public disclosure. Congresswoman Eshoo introduced similar legislation in the 114th Congress, along with 39 bipartisan cosponsors. The text of the Presidential Tax Transparency Act can be found here. # # #
12.15.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO STATEMENT ON RESIGNATION OF FCC CHAIRMAN TOM WHEELER December 15th, 2016 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the House Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement on today’s announcement that FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler will resign in January. “During my tenure in Congress, I have had the privilege to work with seven Chairmen and two Acting Chairs of the FCC. Tom Wheeler’s leadership stands the tallest with an historic record of reshaping the telecommunications and technology landscape, making the U.S. a leader across all sectors. He has strengthened the public safety network; he made networks open, fast and fair for all Americans; assured low income Americans that they, too, would share in our country’s technological age; and advanced spectrum to keep our economy growing for decades to come. “As the 31st Chairman of the FCC, Tom Wheeler will long be credited for leading the charge to shape 21st century policies of innovation and competition for the American people, and his courage, knowledge and determination will withstand the test of history.” # # #
12.14.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Smith International Religious Freedom Legislation Sent to President December 14th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D- CA), Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, issued the following statement after legislation she co-authored with Rep. Chris Smith (R- NJ) was sent to the President for his signature. The bipartisan Frank Wolf International Religious Freedom Act (H.R. 1150) will expand the International Religious Freedom Act sponsored by former Rep. Frank Wolf in 1998 to better address escalating religious persecution globally and give the Administration and the U.S. State Department new resources to improve U.S. religious freedom diplomacy efforts globally. “As the daughter of Christians who fled persecution in the Middle East,” Eshoo said, “the importance of religious freedom is interwoven in the history of my family as it is in the history of the United States. The freedom of religion embodied in the First Amendment is one of the most important and foundational rights in our country and it is what makes our nation a shining beacon of freedom and tolerance for the entire world. “It is also in the U.S. national security interest that the value of freedom of religion be extended to all citizens of the world. Through the Frank Wolf International Religious Freedom Act, the U.S. government will receive new resources to help improve our religious freedom diplomacy efforts globally. “I’m proud to honor my former colleague Congressman Frank Wolf with our legislation. Through his tireless efforts, religious freedom is now being taken seriously as a foreign policy issue.” The bill: Strengthens the Special Advisor for religious freedom at the National Security Council Requires international religious freedom training for all Foreign Service Officers Requires that the Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom report directly to the Secretary of State Elevates the position of the ambassador within the federal government Creates a comprehensive religious prisoners list—persons who are detained, imprisoned, tortured and subject to forced renunciation of faith Creates a “Designated Persons List” for individuals who commit egregious violations of religious freedom Creates an “Entity of Particular Concern” designation for non-state actors like terrorist groups Requires more frequent presidential actions to counter severe religious freedom violations globally Creates a “Special Watch List”—two tier system at State (CPC countries/Special Watch List) Sets congressional expectations for staffing of the International Religious Freedom office and expansion of Religious Freedom Program grants Representative Eshoo is the Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus and together with former Congressman Frank Wolf, founded the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus in 2008. ###
12.09.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO, BROOKS BIODEFENSE BILL TO BECOME LAW December 9th, 2016 Washington, D.C. – Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Susan Brooks (IN-05), released the following statements after the Senate passed the Strengthening Public Health Emergency Response Act as part of H.R. 34, the 21st Century Cures package. “The highest responsibility I have as a Member of Congress is our national security,” Eshoo said. “This includes biodefense. With the passage of the Strengthening Public Health Emergency Response Act in H.R. 34, Congress is making a 21st century commitment to our nation’s biodefense. These critical investments in medical countermeasure development and updates to the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) will help to ensure that the U.S. remains prepared to respond to public health medical emergencies and biological crises.” “In our increasingly global and mobile world, biological threats like Ebola or anthrax, are a growing national security concern,” Brooks said. “We need a more proactive national biodefense strategy to be better prepared to meet the challenges these kinds of threats present. The provisions from our bill, the Strengthening Public Health Emergency Response Act, will help us achieve this goal and ensure that we can respond effectively when the next biological threat presents itself.” Representatives Eshoo and Susan Brooks introduced H.R. 3299, the Strengthening Public Health Emergency Response Act in the House of Representatives. Senator Richard Burr (R-NC) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) led companion legislation in the Senate. This legislation supports the development of medical countermeasures through priority review vouchers to encourage the development of drugs and vaccines. It also improves the purchase of necessary therapies and diagnostic tools by BARDA by restoring its contracting authority in order to protect the United States. Rep. Eshoo and former Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI) created BARDA in 2006 through S.3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act. The 21st Century Cures Act passed the House by a vote of 392 to 26 on November 30, 2016 and passed the Senate by a vote of 94 to 5. The bill is now on its way to the President to be signed into law. ###
12.07.2016	+ SHARE WINNERS ANNOUNCED FOR THE 18TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT APP CHALLENGE December 7th, 2016 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Today the winners of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge were announced for the 18th Congressional District of California. Arnav Gudibande, Amar Ramachandran, and Anuv Gupta of St. Francis High School in Mountain View won this year’s competition with their app Peer2Peer, which provides a platform for both students and tutors to connect with one another in a quick and efficient manner. Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), the founding co-chair of the 2015 bipartisan competition said: “The winners saw a need among their peers to connect students with tutors and developed an app to address it. Ensuring students can easily access the resources necessary to thrive academically will pay valuable dividends in the future. Bravo to the 18th District’s winning team and their innovative approach to addressing this issue.” About the Congressional App Challenge Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this bipartisan competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all participating congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education fields. Apps are judged based on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 18th Congressional District was chosen by an independent panel of expert judges. # # #
12.02.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Farr, Speier Announce Acceptance of the Recommendations of the Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals December 2nd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following the FAA’s implementation of NextGen procedures in Northern California airspace in late 2014 and early 2015, including the March 2015 implementation of the new SERFR route, we met with the FAA’s leadership to address these concerns for the affected communities. In order to vet potential solutions, the FAA sought our help to convene a committee of elected local government officials to provide a forum for communities outside the purview of the SFO Airport/Community Roundtable. We are tremendously grateful that 12 local elected officials and their alternates stepped forward and devoted countless hours to public hearings, technical briefings and document review. The process was transparent, thorough and deliberative. We support the majority of the Select Committee’s final recommendation to return to the previous BSR Arrival ground track. While the FAA has committed to designing the routing over the previous BSR lateral track with the highest feasible altitudes and with the lowest possible noise impact, the Select Committee has recommended that at a minimum, the route be no lower and the noise impact no greater than the previous BSR. These minimums apply to the entire route including in the vicinity of MENLO intersection, where the Select Committee is recommending not only a higher altitude over MENLO but also specifying that the planes use only idle power over this area. The return to the BSR track is planned as an interim solution while the FAA works with the affected communities and its elected leaders to develop and identify the best long term solution based on the Committee’s recommendations. Prior to the FAA taking any action, it will assess and report any environmental impacts in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and applicable agency rules. The final report of the Select Committee is available here. # # #
12.02.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO STATEMENT ON NEW PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING December 2nd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif­) released the following statement after Facebook, Envision Transform Build- East Palo Alto, and the cities of East Palo Alto and Menlo Park announced the creation of a new partnership to increase the supply of affordable housing in Silicon Valley. “Today’s announcement by Facebook, Envision Transform Build- East Palo Alto, and the cities of East Palo Alto and Menlo Park is highly welcome news. We need an all-hands-on-deck approach to tackle our housing challenges in Silicon Valley and this partnership that brings together local governments, the private sector, and community activists holds great promise to bring about the affordable housing so critically needed in our area.” # # #
12.02.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO BILL DESIGNATING HOME OF 129TH RESCUE WING AS MOFFETT AIR NATIONAL GUARD BASE PASSES HOUSE December 2nd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif­) released the following statement on House passage of the Conference Report for the National Defense Authorization Act for 2017 (FY17 NDAA), which includes legislation she authored to formally designate the home of the 129th Rescue Wing as ‘Moffett Air National Guard Base.’ Eshoo’s seventeen years of work to keep the 129th at Moffett Field culminated in a long-term agreement reached in 2010 between NASA Ames and the U.S. Air Force (USAF) to make Moffett Field the permanent home of the 129th Rescue Wing. Despite the agreement, the 129th Rescue Wing’s facility has not been officially named by the USAF. “After fighting for years to successfully keep the 129th Rescue Wing at Moffett Federal Airfield, I’m proud to announce their headquarters will officially be named Moffett Air National Guard Base. The vital work of the 129th Rescue Wing and the importance of the Moffett name to the installation’s identity cannot be overstated, which is why it is so important that their home at Moffett be officially recognized. Today’s announcement honors the brave men and women of the 129th who work every day to save lives and keep our nation safe.” “This designation honors the Navy’s rich heritage in Silicon Valley, provides our airman with the stability of a permanent home, and is a tribute to the bright and long-lasting future of the 129th Rescue Wing,” said Col Taft Aujero, 129th Rescue Wing Commander. “I’d like to thank Congresswoman Eshoo for her unwavering support of our air guardsmen, dedicated Airmen who are always ready to answer the call to carry out our vital life-saving mission.” In July 2015, Eshoo introduced H.R. 3341 to designate the portion of Moffett Federal Airfield containing the 129th Rescue Wing of the California Air National Guard as Moffett Air National Guard Base. The bill was included in the House version of the FY17 NDAA and Eshoo worked tirelessly to ensure the bill was included in the Conference Report negotiated between the House and Senate. The Senate is expected to pass the Conference Report and President Obama is expected to sign it into law. Text of H.R. 3341 can be found here: H.R.-3341.pdf. # # #
11.16.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Appointment of Stephen Bannon as White House Chief Strategist November 16th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.–Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement on the appointment of Stephen Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. “Steve Bannon and his hatred have no place in the White House. Today I joined 169 of my House Democratic colleagues in urging President-elect Trump to reconsider his appointment of Stephen Bannon as White House Chief Strategist. Bannon’s record of white-supremacism, anti-Semitism, and so many other horrible attacks should disqualify him from being the closest advisor to the President. His so-called values are antithetical to a thriving democracy.” A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
11.16.2016	+ SHARE House Subcommittees Hold Cybersecurity Hearing at Eshoo’s Request November 16th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Two House Subcommittees held a hearing today to examine the role of “Internet of Things” devices in recent cyberattacks. The joint Communications and Technology and Commerce, Manufacturing and Trade Subcommittee hearing came at the request of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), who serves as the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and other top Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. It follows a large scale attack against Dynamic Network Services, Inc. on October 21st that disrupted a number of popular websites and applications. “The Internet of Things offers great potential for innovation but recent attacks raise troubling questions about the security of Internet-enabled devices and their potential to be used as weapons by cyber attackers,” Eshoo said. “We can’t afford to ignore the risks that come when devices are designed without security. I called for today’s hearing because it’s critical for the government and industry to work together to find a solution to this problem.” # # #
11.04.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Paris Agreement Entering Into Force November 4th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.–Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after the Paris Agreement to address global climate change officially entered into force on Friday, November 4, 2016. “Today the most comprehensive climate change agreement in world history takes effect, less than a year after it was agreed to in Paris. This historic agreement provides a path forward for the global community to take strong action on climate change and prevent a devastating increase in global temperatures. “As one of the world’s largest polluters, the United States must lead by example and we have a plan to do so by limiting the greenhouse gas emissions of power plants. The President’s Clean Power Plan is firmly grounded in the Supreme Court’s 2007 decision upholding the authority of the EPA to regulate carbon dioxide under the Clean Air Act, and I’m confident it will be upheld by the courts. California is leading the world in the transition to a renewable future and I will continue to support policies in Congress to ensure the United States meets and exceeds our commitments in the Paris Agreement. “Decades from now, historians will note November 4, 2016 as a date which marked a turning point when the world began to tackle the climate challenge.” ###
10.26.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO STATEMENT ON DEFENSE DEPARTMENT DECISION TO HALT COLLECTION OF ENLISTMENT BONUSES October 26th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after Defense Secretary Ashton Cater announced the Defense Department was halting efforts to recoup enlistment bonuses paid to California National Guard members. “I’m relieved Secretary Carter has taken steps to halt the senseless collection of enlistment bonuses paid to California National Guard members over a decade ago,” said Eshoo. “These brave men and women reenlisted during the height of the U.S. wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and were improperly awarded bonuses due to mismanagement and in some cases fraud on the part of California National Guard officials, not through any fault of their own.” Eshoo concluded: “I’m working with my colleagues in Congress to find a permanent solution to correct this injustice and ensure our service members get the relief and respect they deserve.” # # #
09.29.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Vows to Continue Fight to Free Consumers from Cable Box Fees September 29th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement regarding the postponement by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) of a vote on rules to require cable and satellite companies to make their programming available on third-party devices. Section 629 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 instructed the FCC to ensure a competitive market for these devices. “I will not give up the fight to help my constituents break open the box that results in consumers paying exorbitant fees to cable providers each year,” Eshoo said. “Consumers have been waiting for twenty years for relief from these fees. This disappointing delay will cost them even more money. I urge the FCC to move forward with new rules to unleash competition, choice, and innovation without further delay.” # # #
09.22.2016	+ SHARE House Subcommittee Holds Important Hearing on Robocalls at Eshoo’s Request September 22nd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology today held a hearing to examine existing federal laws protecting consumers from unwanted robocalls and other steps that should be taken to address the daily intrusion into people’s lives. The hearing came at the request of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), who serves as the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, and other top Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “The one issue I hear about consistently from my constituents is the need to put an end to unwanted phone calls,” Eshoo said at the hearing. “At best, the barrage of unwanted calls using autodialers and pre-recorded messages are disruptive and intrusive. At worst, these calls put consumers, especially seniors, at risk of being taken in by scammers and criminals. It’s time for Congress to examine how we can protect consumers from these calls.” The hearing was focused on updating the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), legislation passed in 1991 to restrict the use of certain technology that enables robocalls. Recent estimates have found that robocalls make up nearly 35 percent of calls consumers receive today, and these kinds of calls are the number one complaint received by the Federal Communications Commission. A longtime leader on consumer issues, Rep. Eshoo was a cosponsor of the Do-Not-Call Implementation Act of 2003, legislation establishing the National Do-Not-Call Registry. # # # # #
09.09.2016	+ SHARE Boxer, Capps, Eshoo and Huffman Announce Public Meeting To Discuss California Coastal National Monument Expansion September 9th, 2016 Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Representatives Lois Capps (CA-24), Anna Eshoo (CA-18) and Jared Huffman (CA-02) today announced that Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Director Neil Kornze will join Rep. Capps in her congressional district to visit proposed additions to the California Coastal National Monument on September 16 near Cambria, California. Director Kornze will also join Rep. Capps and state officials in attending a community meeting, where they will hear feedback from the public and local leaders on the management of these magnificent public lands, including the Piedras Blancas Light Station Outstanding Natural Area in San Luis Obispo County, Lighthouse Ranch and Trinidad Head in Humboldt County, Rocks and Islands in Orange County, the Cotoni-Coast Dairies in Santa Cruz County and Lost Coast Headlands. “I’m grateful that Director Kornze will visit these spectacular public lands and hear from the public on the proposed expansion of the California Coastal National Monument,” Senator Boxer said. “Adding these areas to the National Monument will increase protections for our coast, expand recreational opportunities, and boost the economy in local communities.” “The California Coastal National Monument is one of our nation’s greatest treasures,” Capps said. “The proposed expansion, which includes the Piedras Blancas Light Station in San Luis Obispo County, is critical to protecting landscapes along the entire coast of California, while providing a greater visitor experience and expanded access to the existing monument. On the Central Coast, this expansion would ensure that the unique history and abundant natural resources we take pride in are protected for generations to come. That is why I have worked with my colleagues to highlight the need to protect these coastal lands. I am excited to welcome state and federal officials to Piedras Blancas in my district so that they can hear firsthand about the broad support this proposed expansion enjoys.” “Californians are excited that Director Kornze will be visiting San Luis Obispo County to see firsthand the lands proposed for National Monument status,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The Cotoni-Coast Dairies property in Santa Cruz County is part of this effort and is home to picturesque coastal terraces, redwood forest, endangered species, and Native American archeological sites. The land was spared from proposed development of luxury homes and a nuclear power plant and was donated to the federal government in 2014, but it remains largely closed to the public. National Monument status represents the best opportunity to conserve the land’s prized resources while allowing for responsible public access in the future, and I have confidence that the Director will share this view after his visit to California next week.” “The coast of Humboldt County is home to important and unique marine and coastal animals, plants, and habitats,” said Rep. Huffman. “Expanding the California Coastal National Monument to include areas such as Trinidad Head and Lighthouse Ranch would be good news for the environment, the coastal economy, and the citizens of California and the nation. I was pleased to work closely with the Trinidad Rancheria and Wiyot Tribe on this effort, for whom these ancestral lands hold great value, and I am grateful that my constituents will have the opportunity to weigh in on this important proposal.” WHAT: Public Meeting with Federal and State officials to discuss California Coastal National Monument Expansion WHEN: Friday, September 16, at 2 p.m. WHERE: Cambria Veterans Hall, 1000 Main Street, Cambria, CA 93428 WHO: Senator Boxer and Representatives Capps, Eshoo and Huffman have invited the following individuals to deliver remarks: Bureau of Land Management Director Neil Kornze California Natural Resources Secretary John Laird Local Representatives Panel Below are maps for the proposed national monuments: http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-Overall.pdf http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-CotoniCoastDairies.pdf http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-LighthouseRanch.pdf http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-LostCoastHeadlands.pdf http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-OrangeCountyRocksandIslands.pdf http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-PiedrasBlancas.pdf http://www.boxer.senate.gov/CCNMAddition-TrinidadHead.pdf Earlier this year, Senator Boxer and Representatives Capps, Eshoo and Huffman introduced the California Coastal National Monument Expansion Act, legislation that would provide lasting protection to multiple majestic sites along the California coast, while also improving management of these areas and highlighting the historic, cultural, scientific and ecological significance of each location. On February 11, Boxer sent a letter to President Obama requesting he use his authority under the Antiquities Act to expand the California Coastal National Monument. The California Coastal National Monument was designated by President Clinton in 2000 and stretches the entire 1,100 miles of California’s coastline, protecting more than 20,000 small islands, rocks, exposed reefs and islands between Mexico and Oregon. It also preserves the habitat for a variety of wildlife including seabirds, California sea lions and southern sea otters. Senators Boxer and Feinstein, along with Congressman Mike Thompson, introduced legislation in 2012 to expand the Monument to include the Point Arena-Stornetta Public Lands in Mendocino County. In 2014, President Obama included these lands as the first onshore addition to the Monument. ###
09.08.2016	+ SHARE A Path Forward: Updated Set-Top Box Proposal September 8th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler’s announcement today that the Commission will take up an updated set-top box proposal at their September Open Meeting. “Twenty years ago Congress mandated that the FCC bring competition to the cable set-top box marketplace. Chairman Wheeler’s initial ‘unlock the box’ proposal would in no uncertain terms fulfill this mandate and it’s why I’ve been such a strong supporter of it. “The updated proposal Chairman Wheeler announced today reflects significant and constructive input from key stakeholders. This is a path forward to advance competition and consumer choice as Congress intended. “The bottom line is that consumers pay an average of $231 per year to rent their cable boxes, putting $20 billion annually in the pockets of cable companies. This effort is about freeing consumers from these fees and from being tethered to an antiquated black box. It’s critical that the FCC act without delay.”
08.24.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Paulsen Statement on Medical Device User Fee Agreement August 24th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Co-chairs of the bipartisan House Medical Technology Caucus, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Erik Paulsen (MN-03), released the following statement in response to a new user fee agreement between medical device manufacturers and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). “We applaud the FDA and device manufacturers for coming together to reach an agreement, and look forward to reviewing the details,” said House Medical Technology Caucus Co-Chairs Anna Eshoo and Erik Paulsen. “Medical technology will continue to play an important role in improving health outcomes and reducing costs, as long as there’s a regulatory environment that is efficient, responsive, and protects patients.” Rep. Eshoo is the original author of the Medical Device User Fee and Modernization Act of 2002 [Public Law No: 107-250] which established the medical device user fee program. ###
08.09.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Framework for Business Data Services August 9th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the filing made today by INCOMPAS and Verizon in the FCC’s Business Data Services proceeding. “The joint filing by Verizon and INCOMPAS demonstrates that there is a practical path forward to bring competition to the business data services market. This proceeding has languished at the FCC for far too long, and now that key industry stakeholders have come together, it’s time for the FCC to take advantage of the opportunity it has to finally bring business data services reform across the finish line.”
07.18.2016	+ SHARE Travel Advisories and Resources for Turkey and Europe July 18th, 2016 Travel Warning for Turkey Resources for Family and Friends in Turkey Travel Alert for Europe Resources for Family and Friends in France
07.18.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO KICKS OFF ANNUAL CONGRESSIONAL APP CHALLENGE July 18th, 2016 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today the launch of the second annual official Congressional App Challenge, third for the 18th Congressional District. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event that invites high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education disciplines. “This is an extraordinary opportunity for students in our Congressional District and I’m proud to help foster their interest in STEM,” said Eshoo, who co-chaired the inaugural competition. “The next decade is estimated to create approximately 8.5 million STEM job opportunities, but during that same time it is also estimated that the U.S. will face a shortage of 1 million STEM graduates. The Congressional App Challenge seeks to address this disparity by encouraging students to create their own app and pursue an education in STEM fields.” About the 2016 Congressional App Challenge The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or are eligible to attend a public high school located in the 18th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the Competition Submission Period between July 18, 2016 and midnight EST on November 2, 2016. The submitted apps will be judged by an appointed expert panel of individuals within the academic, software and entrepreneurial fields. The winning student’s app in each participating congressional district will be displayed in a U.S. Capitol exhibit. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found at CongressionalAppChallenge.us. # # #
06.14.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO APPLAUDS COURT DECISION ON NET NEUTRALITY RULES June 14th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding today’s ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) Open Internet Order: “This is a great day for all Internet users. Today’s ruling of the Court affirms what millions of Americans already knew – that net neutrality rules grounded in Title II gave the FCC the strongest legal authority to adopt strong and meaningful rules against blocking, throttling, and discrimination of online content by both wired and wireless broadband providers. “The American people spoke loud and clear in support of rules to protect free speech and online commerce from the powerful grip of corporate gatekeepers. The FCC listened and took decisive action. This ruling is a feather in the cap of every citizen who took part in the process.” ###
06.09.2016	+ SHARE ESHOO, MARKEY HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE TO REFORM SET-TOP BOX INDUSTRY June 9th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) hosted a press conference today with leaders in support of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) proposal to unlock the set-top box market. Also attending to call for the FCC to “unlock the box” were Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT); Rep. Mark Takano (D-Calif.); Robert L. Johnson, Chairman, RLJ Entertainment and Founder, Black Entertainment Television; Chip Pickering, CEO, INCOMPAS; Joe Weber, Chief Technology Officer, Service Provider Business Unit, TiVo; DeShuna Spencer, CEO, kweliTV; Corri Freedman, Political Director, Writers Guild of America West; and Chris Lewis, Vice President, Government Affairs, Public Knowledge. The FCC’s proposal, mandated by Section 629 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, allows cable subscribers to purchase their own television set-top box from third parties, resulting in more competition, consumer choice, and saving consumers hundreds of dollars a year in rental fees. “Today, tens of millions of cable customers have no choice but to pay a monthly fee for the ‘privilege’ of renting a cable box that has changed little in decades,” said Rep. Eshoo (CA-18). “Opponents of the FCC’s proposal to unlock the cable box have thrown together a salad of criticisms to derail it and have kept the market locked up for 20 years at a yearly intake of $20 billion. It’s time for innovation and competition in this market so consumers can finally win.” “It’s been 20 years since we passed my provision in the 1996 Telecommunications Act to make the set-top marketplace a centerpiece of our telecommunications universe,” said Senator Markey (D-MA). “We don’t need any more studies to understand the problem – bloated rental fees, nominal choice, and virtually no competition in the set-top box marketplace. The solution is simple: no fees, greater competition and more consumer choice.” “The average household is forced into fees of more than $200 a year for set-top boxes – an unjust and unjustifiable expense,” said Senator Blumenthal (D-CT). “Consumers deserve competitive options in accessing technology and television, not exorbitant prices dictated by monopolistic cable companies.” “This proposal to open the set-top box industry to competition is about giving consumers more choice and value,” said Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41). “At $231 a year, consumers are spending more annually on renting these boxes then on almost any other piece of consumer electronics. Competition in this space will drive down costs for working families, who will continue to pay cable companies for access to content and information, all while making the boxes more reliable and easier to use.” “Consumers now pay an exorbitant amount of money every year to rent set top boxes from their cable providers,” said Rep. Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (VA-03). “The FCC’s recent proposal would better protect consumers by allowing them to access their pay TV subscriptions how they see fit, whether that’s through a set top box leased from their cable provider, digital apps, or third party alternatives. The Commission’s efforts will ultimately increase marketplace competition, save consumers money, and afford better access to more diverse programming, including programs from minority and independent broadcasters.” “I fully support FCC Commissioner Tom Wheeler’s set-top box initiative. There have been great changes in how consumers can access content but with the myriad of available devices, minority and niche programmers are not given the same visibility and access as the larger programming providers,” said Robert L. Johnson, Chairman of RLJ Entertainment and Founder of Black Entertainment Television. “That’s why I, and other minority programmers should, support giving consumers the choice of purchasing set-top devices that can combine traditional cable programming with streaming video content in an integrated user interface that puts all content on an equal footing. Increasing the accessibility of streaming content would provide minority programmers assistance in overcoming the barriers such as access to capital and carriage on cable, which has historically kept them from entering the marketplace. If you have a good program idea, some financing and access to the Internet, you can find your audience but your audience can only find you if they have a modem or a set-top box or software that lets them know you are there and gives them access to your programs unconstrained by the network gatekeeper. In my opinion, this is the best decision that the FCC has made to increase minority diversity in media content distribution since the Commission championed the tax certificate which allowed for the increase in minority ownership of media properties,” Johnson concluded. “TiVo supports the FCC’s efforts to update the technology that fulfills the requirements of Section 629 and continues support for consumer options in navigation devices and experiences,” said Joe Weber, Chief Technology Officer, Service Provider Business Unit, TiVo. “The proposed improvements over CableCARD will bring further consumer benefit such as more choices in integrated content sources including emerging over the top and minority programming, while giving consumers the option to purchase and own their choice of device instead of the one option from their service provider. Consumers will continue to enjoy the same right to privacy and access to content that they enjoy today using CableCARD but now with the expanded capabilities of the new proposal.” “For years the cable companies have tried to lock consumers into the past with rent-a-boxes that block both innovation and Internet streaming content,” said Chip Pickering, CEO of INCOMPAS, the Internet and competitive networks association. “But thanks to the FCC, now is the time to move away from an old monopoly box to competition and let the best boxes win. This is the fastest way to achieve lower prices, comply with the law and move to a box free future.” “The Writers Guild of America, West strongly supports the FCC’s efforts to promote competition in the set-top box market,” said Corri Freedman, Political Director for WGAW. “Consolidation over the past several decades created a video distribution market controlled by only a handful of companies. With the open Internet we are beginning to see what is possible in a more competitive landscape where legal video streaming has become a lucrative business and dominates Internet traffic. A more vibrant market for legal content and services is the best protection against piracy. The FCC’s proposed set-top box rules not only safeguard content, they are the logical and necessary next step in giving more choice to consumers and creating more distributors for the content writers create.” ###
06.07.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Require Presidential Candidates to Release Tax Returns June 7th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) today introduced the Presidential Tax Transparency Act to require presidential nominees of major political parties to publicly disclose their previous three years of federal tax returns. Nominees would be required to file their returns with the Federal Election Commission within 15 days of receiving their party’s nomination. The bill is the companion legislation to S. 2979, authored by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR). “The American people justifiably have the expectation that those who are the nominees for the highest office in the land should be open and transparent about their tax returns,” Eshoo said. “Tax returns are highly instructive. They contain vital information, such as did the person pay any taxes; did the person make charitable contributions; did the person take advantage of tax loopholes; or did the person keep money offshore. “As former presidential candidate Mitt Romney stated earlier this year, ‘tax returns provide the public with its sole confirmation of the veracity of a candidate’s representations regarding charities, priorities, wealth, tax conformance, and conflicts of interest.’ I couldn’t agree more, and that’s why I’ve introduced this important legislation.” Background According to the Tax History Project, every President since 1976 has released their tax returns prior to taking office, but this practice is not required by current law. The Presidential Tax Transparency Act requires all major party nominees to publicly disclose three years of tax returns. “Major parties” are defined in the tax code as parties whose candidate received more than 25 percent of the popular vote in the previous presidential election. If a candidate fails to disclose their tax returns, the Secretary of the Treasury is required to provide redacted copies to the Federal Election Commission for public disclosure. The text of the Presidential Tax Transparency Act can be found here. # # #
05.27.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo to Introduce House Version of Bill Directing Presidential Candidates to Release Tax Returns May 27th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today that she will introduce companion legislation to S. 2979, the Presidential Tax Transparency Act, when the House of Representatives returns from the Memorial Day recess. The bill, authored by Senator Ron Wyden (D-OR), requires presidential nominees of major political parties to publicly file federal tax returns with the Federal Election Commission. “Those who strive to serve in the highest office in the land should be open and transparent with the American people about their tax returns,” Eshoo said. “Voters have a right to know whether presidential candidates are taking advantage of tax loopholes that place more of a burden on hardworking Americans. This basic information should be available for the public to see before they cast their ballots, which is why I will be introducing this commonsense legislation when the House returns in June.” The House of Representatives is scheduled to return from recess on Tuesday, June 7th.
05.24.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th District Winners of Congressional Art Competition May 24th, 2016 Washington, D.C.— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced the 18th Congressional District winners of the Congressional Art Competition at a reception attended by students, parents and teachers on Saturday, May 21st at the Palo Alto City Hall. This year, Eshoo’s office received 65 student entries from 15 high schools from throughout her congressional district. 1st Place: Jennifer Wang Saint Francis High School Name of Artwork: Halcyon 2nd Place: Jerry Zhang Westmont High School Name of Artwork: Alps Overlooking a Homestead and Flora Overlooking the Basin 3rd Place: Katherine Liu Saratoga High School Name of Artwork: Modern Enlightenment Honorable Mention: Laura Chaland Saratoga High School Name of Artwork: Kahlo’s Flowers Honorable Mention: Tim Smith Menlo School Name of Artwork: Busking Under City Lights Honorable Mention: Anthony Wilfred Goo Westmont High School Name of Artwork: Flashhhh! Honorable Mention: Claire Brigden Sacred Heart Preparatory Name of Artwork: Rise Up 4 Emmett Hill & The Standoff Honorable Mention: Claire Berschauer Palo Alto High School Name of Artwork: Waiting on the World Fair “I’m so proud to represent such talented students in our Congressional District,” Eshoo said in a statement. “We all appreciate the value of art and we know how important it is for the development of our children.” About the Congressional Art Competition Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has hosted an annual visual art competition for high school students to recognize artistic talent throughout the nation. Attracting more than 650,000 participants nationwide to date, the competition calls for submissions of paintings, drawings, collages, photographs and computer-generated art. Judging in the 18th Congressional District competition is done by an independent panel of art community members. This year’s judging panel included: local artist Kit Colman, Shannon McDonnell, Executive Director for Pacific Art League, Anna Speaker, Education Programs Director for the Pacific Art League, and Mahmut Keskekci, local artist and gallery owner. The winning artwork from each congressional district is exhibited for a full year at the U.S. Capitol. Winners receive two round-trip tickets to Washington D.C. for the annual awards ceremony and launch of the exhibition. # # #
05.16.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Farr, Speier release FAA Initiative feasibility study on airplane noise May 16th, 2016 WASHINGTON – Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Sam Farr (CA-20), and Jackie Speier (CA-14) released the Federal Aviation Administration’s (FAA) Initiative feasibility study to address the problem of increased airplane noise in Santa Cruz, Santa Clara, San Mateo and San Francisco counties. The FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns of Santa Cruz/Santa Clara/San Mateo/San Francisco Counties Feasibility Study can be viewed here, along with the appendices and executive summary. # # #
05.13.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Improve Location Accuracy for 9-1-1 Calls May 13th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Co-Chair of the Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus introduced today the Requesting Emergency Services and Providing Origination Notification Systems Everywhere (RESPONSE) Act, which would require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to complete a proceeding requiring all Multi-Line Telephone Systems to provide first responders with the precise location of a 9-1-1 caller. “When someone dials 9-1-1, every second matters,” said Rep. Eshoo. First responders have to know exactly where an individual is calling from, especially if the caller is unable to communicate to the dispatcher, or the caller simply doesn’t know where they are.” “This is an issue the FCC has been studying since 1994,” Eshoo continued. To wait any longer for action is simply an excuse and a costly one because lives are at stake.” As Co-Chair and founder of the bipartisan, bicameral NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus (formerly the Congressional E-911 Caucus), Rep. Eshoo has been a longtime advocate for upgrading our nation’s emergency response systems. In 2012, Congress directed the FCC to issue a Public Notice Seeking Comment on the feasibility of Multi-Line Telephone Systems to provide the precise location of a 911 caller. This was included in Section 6504(b) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 and was modeled on legislation introduced by Rep. Eshoo and her Co-Chair of the NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus, Representative Shimkus, known as the Next Generation 911 Advancement Act of 2012. The text of the RESPONSE Act can be found here. # # #
04.04.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Farr, Speier Announce New Select Committee on South Bay Aircraft Noise April 4th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Sam Farr (CA-20) and Jackie Speier (CA-14) today announced the formation of the new Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals. The Select Committee will be comprised of 12 local elected officials and will build on the previous work of local stakeholders to develop regional solutions to address aircraft noise. Together with the announcement of the new Select Committee, the Representatives are also today releasing to the public the FAA’s updated Initiative to Address Northern California Noise Concerns which includes completed milestones. The Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals will accept public input, review FAA proposals, and make recommendations on issues identified in the FAA’s Initiative with a focus on arrival issues that primarily impact the South Bay Region. The SFO Airport/Community Roundtable will accept public input, review FAA proposals, and make recommendations on issues identified in the FAA’s Initiative with a focus on SFO departures as well as arrivals that primarily impact the SFO Roundtable geographical area. SFO and the FAA will offer technical assistance to both the Select Committee and the SFO Roundtable as needed and will work with both the Committee and the SFO Roundtable on the FAA’s Initiative. Each of the three Congressional Districts has four appointees on the Committee. A full roster of the Select Committee Members and Alternates is below. Eshoo: “Establishment of this Select Committee is a critical step to address airplane noise that is plaguing our constituents. New flight paths implemented by the FAA have generated an alarming increase in noise impacts across my entire Congressional District. Large, small, urban, and rural communities have been affected, and the majority of noise complaints in my District involve arrivals at SFO. The Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals will work with the public and the FAA to expedite solutions to this problem. “Importantly, the Select Committee will have representation from the three Congressional Districts and the three affected counties. This is a regional problem which calls for regional solutions. Simply shifting noise from one community to another is not an option.” Farr: “As the FAA implemented the new NextGEN flight plans, it became increasingly clear there was not enough local input into how these flight plans would affect our region. The Select Committee will finally give those impacted local communities a voice in the process as we look for ways to remove airplane noise from all of our homes and neighborhoods.” Speier: “The recent increase in aircraft noise has created an intolerable environment for many communities. I expect the FAA to work with the appointees on both committees to mitigate the intense increase in aircraft noise that is making it unbearable for many of my constituents.” Public meetings of the Select Committee will be held in Santa Cruz County, San Mateo County, and Santa Clara County on the following days: Wednesday, May 25, 2016 Santa Cruz Civic Auditorium 307 Church St, Santa Cruz 6:00 p.m. Wednesday, June 15, 2016 Sequoia High School, Carrington Hall 1201 Brewster Avenue, Redwood City 6:00pm Wednesday, June 29, 2016 Mountain View Center for the Performing Arts 500 Castro Street, Mountain View 6:00pm Select Committee on South Bay Arrivals membership: Select Committee Member Elected body Appointed by Supervisor Joe Simitian Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors Congresswoman Eshoo Councilmember Ann Wengert Town of Portola Valley Congresswoman Eshoo Councilmember Mary-Lynne Bernald City of Saratoga Cities Association of Santa Clara County Mayor Pro Tem Gary Waldeck Town of Los Altos Hills Cities Association of Santa Clara County Supervisor Bruce McPherson Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors Congressman Farr Supervisor John Leopold Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors Congressman Farr Councilmember Don Lane City of Santa Cruz Congressman Farr Mayor Ed Bottoroff City of Capitola Congressman Farr Supervisor Dave Pine San Mateo County Board of Supervisors Congresswoman Speier Mayor Mark Addiego City of South San Francisco Congresswoman Speier Councilmember Sam Hindi City of Foster City Congresswoman Speier Vice-Mayor Larry Moody City of East Palo Alto Congresswoman Speier Select Committee Alternates: Select Committee Alternate Elected body Appointed by Supervisor Mike Wasserman Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors Congresswoman Eshoo Mayor Elizabeth Lewis Town of Atherton Congresswoman Eshoo Councilmember Jean Mordo City of Los Altos Cities Association of Santa Clara County Vice Mayor Gregory Scharff City of Palo Alto Cities Association of Santa Clara County Mayor Donna Lind City of Scotts Valley Congressman Farr President George Purnell Happy Valley School Board Congressman Farr Mayor Cynthia Matthews City of Santa Cruz Congressman Farr Councilmember Dennis Norton City of Capitola Congressman Farr Councilmember Jeffrey Gee City of Redwood City Congresswoman Speier Councilmember Bob Grassilli City of San Carlos Congresswoman Speier Councilmember Peter I. Ohtaki City of Menlo Park Congresswoman Speier Mayor Donna Rutherford City of East Palo Alto Congresswoman Speier # # #
03.17.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on State Department Genocide Designation March 17th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after Secretary of State John Kerry determined the persecution of Christians, Yezidis, and Shiite Muslims in Iraq and Syria is genocide. “Today, the United States has taken decisive and historic action by asserting that the persecution of Christians, Yezidis, and Shiite Muslims by ISIS is genocide.” “This determination will elevate the incredible suffering of so many in Iraq and Syria and unite the entire international community to end this genocide, a crime which strikes people, cultures, societies and civilization itself.” Representatives Eshoo and Fortenberry (R-Neb.) co-chair the House Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus and together in September 2015 introduced H. Con. Res. 75 which defines the persecution of Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria as genocide. The resolution has 213 bipartisan cosponsors and passed the House by a vote of 393 to 0 on March 14, 2016. ###
03.15.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Fortenberry Resolution Defining Persecution of Christians and Other Religious Minorities in Iraq and Syria as Genocide Passes House of Representatives March 15th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after the House passed her bipartisan resolution (H. Con. Res. 75) defining the persecution of Christians, Yezidis, and other ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria as genocide. “Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives sent a message around the world by declaring the atrocities being committed against ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria is an act of genocide. This is a seminal moment for the House to have taken up the resolution and passed it unanimously.” “The passage of this resolution is deeply meaningful to me as the only Member of Congress of Assyrian and Armenian descent. This genocide is a repeat of what my family endured. My grandparents were being persecuted and hunted down in the Middle East because they were Christians.” “I pray for the day that there will be peace in the region so that these ancient faith communities will be safe in their ancestral homeland. The stability and the cultural identity of the Middle East depend on this.” Representatives Eshoo and Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.) Co-Chair the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus and together in September 2015 introduced H. Con. Res. 75 in the House. The resolution has 213 bipartisan cosponsors and passed the House by a vote of 393 to 0. # # #
03.14.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Data Center Efficiency Legislation Passes House March 14th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement on House passage of her legislation to increase efficiency at federal data centers. The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act (H.R. 1268) passed by voice vote with no opposition. “Today, the world generates more data in twelve hours than was generated in all of human history prior to 2003,” Eshoo said. “This data must be stored and processed at data centers which are the backbone of the 21st century economy but can be highly energy inefficient. My legislation saves the federal government energy and taxpayer dollars by requiring the use of energy efficient and energy saving technologies, specifically in federal data centers. I’m pleased to see this important policy once again pass the House, and I look forward to its swift consideration in the Senate.” Background As the nation’s largest landowner, employer, and energy user, Eshoo’s data center legislation makes the federal government a leader in improving the energy efficiency of its more than 2,000 data centers. Specifically, the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act would: Require federal agencies to coordinate with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in developing plans to purchase and use more energy efficient technologies and practices, along with periodic evaluation of federal data centers for energy efficiency. Require an update to a 2007 Report to Congress originally requested by Rep. Eshoo that has formed the baseline for data center energy efficiency since its release, but is in need of an update. Create an Open Data Initiative for the purpose of making federal data center energy usage data available in a way that empowers further data center innovation, while protecting national security interests. The Department of Energy estimates that implementation of best practices alone could reduce the government’s data center energy bill by 20 to 40 percent. With investments in the latest technologies, experts estimate that most data centers could slash their energy use by 80 to 90 percent. Overall, the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions found that widespread adoption of energy efficient information technologies could save the federal government over $5 billion in energy costs through 2020. The language of the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act has already passed the House in the 114th Congress as part of H.R. 8, and it is also included in the Senate comprehensive energy legislation which is currently being debated. ###
03.04.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Protect Consumers from Unwanted Robocalls and Texts March 4th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, has introduced legislation to protect anyone with a federal loan (student loans, mortgages, veterans loans, farming loans) from unwanted robocalls and texts, specifically to their mobile phones. The Help Americans Never Get Unwanted Phone calls (HANGUP) Act rescinds a recently enacted provision in the Budget Act of 2015 exempting debt collectors from longstanding law that has prohibited them from robocalling without consent the mobile phones of those who have a debt owed or guaranteed by the federal government. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) has provided statutory protection to consumers until now. “We’ve all experienced the highly annoying dinner hour robocall with a prerecorded message,” Eshoo said. “Phone harassment was stopped by the 1991 Telephone Consumer Protection Act, but the provision in the Budget Act of 2015 has rolled back important consumer protections in TCPA. The exemption allows private debt collectors to conduct robocalls and send texts to mobile phones for debt owed or guaranteed by the federal government. The HANGUP Act restores critical protections for consumers by establishing a statutory roadblock to unwanted robocalls and texts.” Text of the legislation can be found here. An identical companion bill was introduced in the Senate in November, 2015. # # #
03.03.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo, Thompson Introduce Bill to Bring Tax Relief to Middle Class Homeowners March 3rd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—U.S. Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) introduced today the Helping Our Middle-Income Earners (HOME) Act, which would allow homeowners making up to $115,000 in annual income to deduct up to $5,000 in community association fees from their federal tax liability. “The HOME Act recognizes that millions of middle class homeowners are struggling to keep up with rising household expenses like child care, college tuition, health care, mortgage and community assessments,” Eshoo said. “The Home Act can go a long way by providing relief from this tax burden on millions of middle class families.” “Congress needs to do all that it can to reduce barriers to homeownership for hard-working middle class families,” said Thompson. “By helping to alleviate the cost of community association fees, this legislation is an important step.” Community associations, which include condominium associations, homeowner associations, and housing cooperatives, have grown substantially in recent decades and offer affordable housing opportunities in countless communities across the United States. Today, more than 65 million Americans reside in 26 million housing units belonging to a community association. In California, over 8.6 million residents live in community associations, including more than 1.5 million persons over the age of 55. It’s estimated that nearly half of all housing built in the Bay Area over the last decade was part of a community association. San Mateo County Santa Clara County Santa Cruz County Total number of Community Associations (CA): 1,001 Total number of CA units: 79,000 Total number of CAs: 2,371 Total number of CA units: 162,000 Total number of CAs: 584 Total number of CA units: 22,000 The text of the HOME Act can be found here. # # #
02.26.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Apple Court Order February 26th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement: “The San Bernardino tragedy has produced a major issue brought forward by the FBI and the response of Apple to the government’s demand. The FBI wants access to what may or may not be stored on the locked iPhone used by one of the shooters in the San Bernardino attack and Apple has denied this request. “The request sounds simple and reasonable, but the implications of this case extend beyond any one company or device. “The FBI has gone to Court to force a private company to create a system solely for the purpose of the federal government to use whenever and however it wishes. This came about after the government missed a key opportunity to back-up and potentially recover information from the device by resetting the iCloud password in the days following the shooting. “There are several critical issues that need to be examined. First, this is a stunning overreach of the FBI to demand that a private company create a new operating system with a ‘swinging door’ that the federal government can enter and exit without any rules whatsoever, whenever they wish. The access being sought by the government is a national security issue with global implications. If forced to comply with the Court’s order, Apple would not just be unlocking one phone. It would in essence be ordered to also unlock a world where our personal information is vulnerable to attacks by terrorist organizations, rogue nations and others seeking to cause the U.S. harm and instill fear. “Second, Congress has determined that ‘backdoors’ endanger our country because they weaken security. Terrorists and those who wish to do our country harm can advantage themselves and this weakens our national security. “Third, as a veteran of the House Intelligence Committee, I’ve seen first-hand the heavy damage that occurs when big government exceeds the limits set by law. The trust of the American people has been severely diminished by many indefensible undertakings, including Cisco routers being intercepted and bugged by our government before being shipped; the allegations that German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s phone and those of other world leaders were being tapped; and the CIA spying on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence as it was investigating controversial detention and interrogation programs. What Congress would not legislate, the FBI is now seeking to accomplish through the Courts. “Fourth, efforts to circumvent code that protects sensitive information on one device creates a dangerous precedent for future seizure of information and a pathway for unauthorized access of that information by hackers, foreign governments and terrorists. Yes, law enforcement is important to us, but mass access to surveillance by the federal government is not the answer. Our Constitution calls on us to protect and defend against enemies both foreign and domestic. It also provides for the protection of the citizenry from the abuses of its own government. “In Arizona v. Hicks (1987), the late Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the majority: ‘…But there is nothing new in the realization that the Constitution sometimes insulates the criminality of a few in order to protect the privacy of us all.’ “The American people and its law enforcement agencies deserve laws that reflect an understanding of 21st century realities about encryption instead of relying on the All Writs Act of 1789. We can and must do better than this.” # # #
02.24.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill to Permanently End Internet Access Tax Signed Into Law February 24th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after the President signed into law bipartisan legislation to place a permanent moratorium on Internet access taxes paid by consumers (not to be confused with online sales tax legislation). Eshoo was the lead House Democrat of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (H.R. 235) and has championed the legislation since 1997. It was included in a reauthorization of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection passed by Congress on February 11th and signed into law today, February 24th. Temporary moratoriums have been put into place by Congress since 1998 to encourage growth of online commerce. Prior to this, Internet access taxes were imposed by some states and localities to generate revenue. “The Internet is a tremendous economic engine for our country,” said Eshoo. “To tax millions of Americans just to access the Internet would stifle the countless benefits and opportunities the Internet offers, including access to health care, education, commerce and communications tools. This law will ensure that Americans can permanently access all the powerful resources of the Internet, tax free.” Why is a permanent moratorium so important? In June of 2015, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report which found that broadband affordability continues to be the most frequently identified barrier to adoption. According to a study by the Phoenix Center, an average tax rate of 2.5 percent on broadband could reduce subscribership by up to 15 million people. H.R. 235 provides certainty to the entire Internet community that access to the Internet will remain tax free. With the expiration of the temporary tax moratorium, taxation on Internet access by over 10,000 state and local taxing jurisdictions would become likely. Eshoo concluded: “At a time when affordability continues to be a key barrier to widespread broadband adoption, this bill bolsters our national commitment to universal broadband in America.” # # #
02.24.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th Congressional District Winner of Congressional App Challenge February 24th, 2016 PALO ALTO, Calif.—At an award ceremony at Palo Alto City Hall, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced that Castilleja School’s Heejung Chung, Claire Huang and Aimee An were chosen the first place winners of the 2016 Congressional App Challenge for the 18th Congressional District. Their winning app Mezzo, according to its creators, “reduces food waste by giving food businesses a quick and easy way to discover local food pantries and donate their surplus.” Mezzo will be on display in the U.S. Capitol and be featured on the U.S. House of Representatives website. Eshoo, a founding co-chair of the 2015 bipartisan competition, said: “Bravo to this year’s winning team of the Congressional App Challenge in the 18th Congressional District. The students who participated in the 2016 competition demonstrated great knowhow, tech savvy and enormous potential.” This year, 186 Members of Congress from 42 states and one territory signed-up to participate, and students from across the country submitted 473 apps. The 18th Congressional District had 24 students participate with 10 entries which can be viewed here. The entries explored solutions to a range of topics, from equal access to SAT test prep and driver safety to tracking community service hours and improving teacher-student communications. Other entries addressed election participation, nutrition and helping consumers after a car accident. “What I thought would be a simple review of app demos turned into an inspiring connection with today’s talented youth,” said Moms With Apps cofounder and editor Lorraine Akemann in a blog post. Akemann was a judge in this year’s competition. “As a parent myself, I sometimes worry about what high school will be like for my own children. The App Challenge eased some of those concerns by introducing me to students who are thriving and succeeding at real world problem solving.” About the Congressional App Competition Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this bipartisan competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all participating congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education fields. Apps are judged based on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 18th Congressional District, chosen by an independent panel of expert judges, will be featured on Challenge.gov, and the winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol, honoring the winners from across the country. # # #
02.18.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo: FCC TV Set-Top Box Proposal Brings Much Needed Competition and Consumer Choice February 18th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, applauded the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) 3-2 vote today in favor of a proposal to open up the TV set-top box marketplace to competitive alternatives. The vote today commences a comment period for stakeholders. “When competition exists, consumers win because they have choices and product pricing is cheaper,” said Eshoo. “That’s why I fully support the FCC’s effort to open up the set-top box industry. “The old Ma Bell model was rejected decades ago. Today’s FCC decision will create a smarter, cheaper and more innovative future for consumers. “Alleluia!” Eshoo has long encouraged the FCC’s proposal. She wrote to the FCC in support of the idea last July and again this week with 12 of her Democratic colleagues. She also penned an op-ed in The Hill today outlining her support for the proposal. # # #
02.16.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Leading Congressional Support for FCC Set-Top Box Proposal February 16th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, is leading congressional support for an anticipated Federal Communications Commission (FCC) vote this week on a new proposal that would open up the set-top box marketplace to competitive alternatives. In a letter to the FCC today, Eshoo and 12 of her Democratic colleagues wrote: “As champions for giving consumers an alternative to renting a set-top box from their pay-TV provider each month, we believe the Commission must preserve competitive choice as required under Section 629 of the Communications Act. Because of the lack of competition in the set-top box space, consumers today are paying on average a whopping $231 per year on rental fees alone. [I]njecting new competition into the marketplace will save consumers money and pave the way for innovative retail alternatives to set-top boxes leased by pay-TV providers.” Eshoo wrote the FCC in July 2015 encouraging the FCC proposal announced by Chairman Tom Wheeler in January. Copy of the signed letter to FCC. The text of the letter follows: February 16, 2016 The Honorable Tom Wheeler, Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 Twelfth Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler, We write to you today regarding the Commission’s review of the set-top box market and the future of the video marketplace. As champions for giving consumers an alternative to renting a set-top box from their pay-TV provider each month, we believe the Commission must preserve competitive choice as required under Section 629 of the Communications Act. Because of the lack of competition in the set-top box space, consumers today are paying on average a whopping $231 per year on rental fees alone. First and foremost, injecting new competition into the marketplace will save consumers money and pave the way for innovative retail alternatives to set-top boxes leased by pay-TV providers. These rental costs present an even higher burden for so many in minority communities. In 2014, as part of the STELA Reauthorization Act (STELAR), Section 106 set in motion a repeal of the integration ban, and, with it, the establishment of a stakeholder working group aimed at finding a successor solution. The carefully crafted compromise, which resulted in the creation of the Downloadable Security Technology Advisory Committee (DSTAC), delayed repeal of the ban by one year and preserved the obligation to promote the competitive availability of set-top boxes under Section 629. As the Commission prepares to vote on the proposal you circulated on January 27th, we urge you to ensure that the agency maintains its statutory obligation to give consumers an alternative to having to rent a set-top box from their pay-TV provider every month. We believe this goal can and should be achieved without reverting to the “AllVid” proposal included in the 2010 National Broadband Plan. We also understand that some have suggested that Commission action would threaten diverse programming and harm minority voices. We believe competitive alternatives to the rented set-top box will in fact enhance opportunities for independent programmers to reach consumers by improving search functionality and user interfaces. Finally, while we agree that apps offer consumers another option for watching video programming, they may not necessarily provide the same features and functionality that are available through a pay-TV provider’s leased set-top box. We believe the recommendations contained in the DSTAC report are intended to ensure consumers have the broadest array of competitive options, which may include but should not be limited to apps. Ultimately, a level playing field will enable competitors to innovate and give consumers the power to choose how to best access their favorite video programming. Thank you for your leadership and commitment to advance a solution that promotes greater competition, consumer choice and innovation. Sincerely, Anna G. Eshoo Zoe Lofgren Michael M. Honda Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Barbara Lee Raúl M. Grijalva Mark Takano Sam Farr Louise Slaughter Rubén Hinojosa Chellie Pingree Mike Thompson Janice Hahn # # #
02.03.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Releases Findings of Tribal Land Broadband Access Report February 3rd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released today the findings of a new report on broadband access in Tribal Lands of the United States. The U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report commissioned by Eshoo and seven other Members in June 2014 makes recommendations to improve broadband access on Tribal Lands. According to the latest Federal Communications Commission (FCC) data, 41 percent of residents in these areas still lack any access to broadband. Comparatively, 10 percent of the United States lacks broadband access. “Bringing broadband access to hard-to-reach areas is often costly and difficult to deploy, but it is no less important,” Eshoo said. “Native Americans are among the most economically distressed groups in America with many living in poverty. The opportunity a broadband connection brings to individuals—whether it is access to health care, education or commerce—holds even more potential for vulnerable and underserved populations. As the GAO report concludes, we can be doing more, and we should be doing more.” The GAO report makes four recommendations to the FCC to act on: Develop joint training and outreach with USDA’s Rural Utilities Service, which runs the broadband loan program meant to support rural and tribal areas; Develop performance goals and measures for tribal areas for improving broadband availability to households; Develop performance goals and measures for improving broadband availability to tribal schools and libraries; and Improve the reliability of its data related to institutions that receive E-Rate funding by defining “tribal” on the program application. The co-requesters of the report along with Eshoo included Reps. Ben Ray Lujan (D-N.M.), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Don Young (R-Alaska), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), Frank Pallone (D-N.J.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.) and Jared Huffman (D-Calif.). The GAO visited or interviewed officials from 21 tribal entities for this report. A copy of the report can be found here. # # #
02.03.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches 2016 Congressional Art Competition in California’s 18th Congressional District February 3rd, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today this year’s district-wide Congressional Art Competition to discover and celebrate talented high school artists and their work. “Creativity and freedom of expression are bedrock American values,” Eshoo said. “That’s why for the last 30 years the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged artistic talent among our youth. I’m proud to keep this tradition flourishing by launching this year’s competition in California’s 18th Congressional District.” About the Competition All high school students from throughout the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate and exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students can participate by submitting their works of art to Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by 5 p.m. PST on Friday, April 8th. A local reception will be held to announce the winner and honor all participants. The winning artist, whose work is chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists, has the distinction of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of the nation’s Capitol for one year. They will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with other talented young artists at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website. # # #
01.27.2016	+ SHARE Eshoo: Consumers Gain Options in TV Set-Top Box Market with Proposed FCC Action January 27th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announcement that it will undertake new rules to promote competition in the television set-top box market: “Set-top boxes are a clunky piece of equipment that pay-TV customers are cornered into renting for hundreds of dollars a year in order to view their programming. And the average cost to rent their set-top box has risen a staggering 185 percent over the last 20 years. “The FCC’s proposal has the potential to unlock the TV set-top box market, giving consumers relief and paving the way for cheaper, alternative choices, as well as creating more opportunities for independent and minority programmers. “Think back to the days when Ma Bell required customers to only rent their phones from them. When the FCC lifted this prohibition, consumers not only saved money, but innovation thrived in the telephone market. “It’s time to eliminate this $20 billion boondoggle and leapfrog into the second decade of the 21st century and all it has to offer.” In July, Congresswoman Eshoo wrote to FCC Chairman Wheeler urging him to ensure that the Commission’s rules give consumers an alternative to having to rent a set-top box from their pay-TV provider each month. A copy of her letter can be found here. # # #
01.20.2016	+ SHARE Yarmuth, Eshoo to FCC: Unmask Secret Sponsors of Political Ads January 20th, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C.—On the eve of the anniversary of one of the most corrosive decisions to U.S. democracy by the Supreme Court—Citizens United—Energy and Commerce Committee Members John Yarmuth (D-Ky.) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) are leading 168 House Democrats requesting the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to increase transparency in U.S. elections. In a letter today to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, they state that the Commission has failed to exercise its authority under existing law to require the disclosure of the true sponsors of political ads. The Members wrote: “We write to respectfully request that you ensure the full disclosure of the sponsors of political advertisements, as required by Section 317 of the Communications Act of 1934. In today’s political reality of non-stop campaigning, our system continues to fail the American people by allowing special interests and shadow groups to flood our airwaves with anonymous ads with no disclosure whatsoever. We believe the Federal Communications Commission has the responsibility and legal authority to require disclosure of the actual donors behind these ads.” Section 317 of the Communications Act of 1934 requires broadcasters to disclose the “true identity” of political ad sponsors on air during the ad. The Members point to a 1979 staff interpretation of the law currently utilized by the FCC as being outdated in a campaign climate dominated by anonymous donors and virtually limitless sums of money from special interests. The staff interpretation deems disclosure of just the organization with “editorial control” to meet the requirements of the law, creating a major loophole for benignly named nonprofit groups to hide the true identity of their sponsors. Experts are estimating the 2016 presidential campaigns could generate a record $10 billion in spending, including a sizeable portion of money for advertisements backed by front groups who keep their donors secret. A 2013 Government Accountability Office report commissioned by Congresswoman Eshoo confirmed the FCC’s authority to require more meaningful disclosure of the sponsors of on-air advertisements, including political advertisements. Eshoo and Yarmuth have co-introduced legislation requiring the FCC to fully enforce the 1934 law. They concluded in a joint statement: “The lack of transparency in politics is harming our democracy, breeding even more mistrust in government, and depressing voter participation. The public has a right to know who is trying to influence their vote over the public airwaves and the FCC should honor that right.” The text of the letter follows: January 20, 2016 The Honorable Tom Wheeler, Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler, We write to respectfully request that you ensure the full disclosure of the sponsors of political advertisements, as required by Section 317 of the Communications Act of 1934. In today’s political reality of non-stop campaigning, our system continues to fail the American people by allowing special interests and shadow groups to flood our airwaves with anonymous ads, with no disclosure whatsoever. We believe the Federal Communications Commission has the responsibility and legal authority to require disclosure of the actual donors behind these ads. Section 317 and the associated FCC regulations require broadcasters to ensure that the “true identity” of the sponsors of political advertisements be disclosed on the air during the ad. However, for decades the FCC has failed to engage in any meaningful enforcement of Section 317. This is because the FCC currently enforces these regulations under a staff interpretation from 1979 which deems the organization that claims “editorial control” over the ad to be the true sponsor. In the new era of non-disclosing political organizations with intentionally opaque names, this interpretation is woefully out of date. While a non-disclosing organization may in fact have had editorial control over the advertisement, the true sponsors of the advertisement are those who contributed the money to pay for it. An overwhelming majority of the American public believe that groups spending money to influence our elections should be required to publically release their donors. The Supreme Court has repeatedly upheld disclosure requirements. In fact, the Citizens United and McCutcheon decisions both discuss the importance of disclosure to protect the public from corruption, real or perceived. Strong enforcement of Section 317 will ensure a level of honesty currently missing from campaign discourse and improve transparency in our political system. We therefore urge you to use the statutory authority granted to you in the Communications Act to require disclosure of the true sponsors of political advertisements so that the American public knows exactly who is trying to influence them over the public airwaves. We thank you in advance for your cooperation and we look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, A copy of the letter can be found here. The list of co-signatories can be found here. # # #
12.18.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Omnibus Legislation & Against Unpaid-For Tax Breaks December 18th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement regarding votes she cast this week on two bills: 1) an Omnibus bill to fund the entire federal government through October 2016, and 2) a bill to renew several tax extensions, some permanently. Eshoo voted in favor of the Omnibus funding bill and against the tax bill. Both bills passed the House with bipartisan approval. Unlike most bills passed by the House, an Omnibus covers funding for the entire federal government in one big bill. Without its passage the government would be unfunded and a shutdown could have occurred. Eshoo said of the Omnibus: “This bill is far from perfect. With any legislation of this magnitude come many pluses and minuses. The bill makes significant progress in key national policy areas, including environmental protection, renewable energy, medical research, critical resources for veteran health care, disaster preparedness, and nuclear non-proliferation. Importantly, Democrats secured the exclusion of a number of harmful Republican policy riders that would have defunded Planned Parenthood; blocked Syrian refugees from entering the U.S.; dismantled net neutrality rules; and stopped implementation of the President’s Clean Power Plan. The bill also averts a costly and disruptive government shutdown. “I vigorously opposed the giveaway in the bill to Big Oil by eliminating the 40-year ban on crude oil exports, a measure I voted against in the Energy and Commerce Committee. I also opposed provisions that rollback protections for Americans from government surveillance online, as well as a measure that permits continued consolidation in media ownership, a setback to diversity of ideas and viewpoints over the public airwaves. “After careful examination of the legislation, I concluded that attempting to block a giveaway to Big Oil should not come at the expense of the numerous benefits for my constituents and millions of Americans.” Key benefits of the omnibus: Funds the federal government through October 2016 with $1.1 trillion. Extends for five years tax credits for solar and wind energy production, estimated to double renewable energy deployment and create 100,000 American jobs by 2023. Reauthorizes and increases funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund by $150 million. Over its 50 year history, a total of $18 billion has been diverted from the Fund and Republicans allowed its authorization to expire on September 30th. Includes $119 million in additional funding for the National Science Foundation. A $279 million increase in funding for the Department of Energy’s Office of Science. Increases funding for medical research at the National Institutes of Health by $2 billion. Increases funding for the Food and Drug Administration by $132 million. Increases funding for VA medical services by $4.7 billion and includes an additional $170 million to help reduce the disability claims backlog. Funds a critical health bill to ensure 9/11 cleanup workers are adequately compensated and their medical expenses covered. Keeps the Affordable Care Act intact and free of partisan policy riders, including a two-year delay of the so-called “Cadillac” tax and a one-year suspension of the Health Insurance Tax. Provides $351 million more in funding for BARDA, the nation’s leading agency for accelerating the development of medical countermeasures against biological threats. Provides $299 million more funding for nuclear non-proliferation. Requires the Federal Aviation Administration to update its community involvement manual and implement a plan to proactively address concerns with NextGen air traffic control. Eshoo said of the tax extenders bill: “I have supported and helped create many of the tax extenders during my tenure in Congress, including making permanent those for middle class Americans, small businesses, and the research and development tax credit. However, my opposition rests on the cost of the bill—$680 billion over a ten year period, and $2 trillion over 20 years—all unpaid for and charged to the national debt. I view this as irresponsible and unfair, shortchanging our children and our collective future.” # # #
11.20.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes Flawed Syrian and Iraqi Refugee Bill November 20th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after voting against flawed legislation in the House today that effectively halts resettlement in the United States of Iraqi and Syrian refugees. The American SAFE Act, which passed the House by a vote of 289 to 137, would require the FBI, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), and the Director of National Intelligence to certify that each refugee applicant poses no security threat. The bill provides no specific measures for how these national security agencies should meet the certification requirements, leaving a bureaucratic blockade for all refugee applicants. Eshoo said: “As a Member of Congress, my highest responsibility is our national security. The recent attacks in Paris and Beirut have reinvigorated a searing urgency to harden our country’s national security resolve in the face of ISIS-led terrorism, and calls for a constant re-examination of our national security checks for hardening is essential to the safety of the American people. However, this legislation disregards current screening measures altogether, and comes with ulterior motives. “Drawn up in the dead of night without the benefit of any legislative hearings, this bill would deny mothers and children refugee status altogether. To obtain refugee status, applicants must undergo the most rigorous scrutiny and screening of any category of traveler or immigrant to the United States, including biometric and biographic checks. The National Counterterrorism Center, the FBI, DHS, the State Department and the Intelligence Community are all engaged in the process, which vets prospective refugees for up to 18 months to more than two years before they set foot on U.S. soil. “FBI Director Comey expressed his deep concerns with the legislation noting that in addition to making it impossible to allow any refugees into the United States, the policy could affect travelers from another three dozen countries under the visa waiver program. He added that risk is always involved with letting foreigners into the United States, but we have an effective vetting system in place. “This bill is more about the political goal of protecting congressional seats, not protecting lives, and it undermines the very values that make America a great nation.” # # #
11.20.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Fortenberry Urge State Department to Consider All Ethno-Religious Minorities in Genocide Designation November 20th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—The bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.)—are strongly urging the State Department to include all ethno-religious minority populations as it considers designating ISIS attacks on minority populations in Iraq and Syria as genocide. In a letter dated November 19th to Secretary of State John Kerry, the Members wrote: “We’re witnessing the systematic extermination of Iraq and Syria’s entire ethno-religious minority populations and the atrocities perpetrated against each of these vulnerable groups shock the conscience of civilized humanity. “Press reports have indicated, however, that the State Department is considering a less-inclusive designation of the genocide taking place. “As Co-Chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, we request that as you consider the designation of genocide, you include in your designation every ethno-religious minority group being systematically targeted by ISIS. “The United States must condemn the act of genocide as the most barbaric and criminal act of humankind and must do so for all those who are suffering.” A copy of the letter can be viewed here. Eshoo and Fortenberry are authors of H. Con. Res. 75, a resolution declaring the atrocities being committed by ISIS in Iraq and Syria against Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities including Yezidis, Turkmen, Sabea-Mandeans, Kaka’e, and Kurds as genocide and crimes against humanity. # # #
11.16.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Farr, Speier Release FAA Response to Congressional Inquiries About Aircraft Noise November 16th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Sam Farr (CA-20) and Jackie Speier (CA-14) have received and released to the public the FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has authored to address the unprecedented constituent complaints about noise from air traffic above San Francisco, San Mateo, Santa Cruz and Santa Clara Counties. Eshoo: “My colleagues and I have worked tirelessly to engage the FAA’s leadership to take concrete steps to mitigate and address the noise from aircraft in our respective congressional districts. As a result of our collaboration, FAA Administrator Michael Huerta and FAA Regional Director Glen Martin met with local elected officials, community groups and individuals from our congressional districts to discuss the impacts of NextGen and additional issues prior to its implementation, including Surf Air at the San Carlos Airport. “I welcome this important first step the FAA has developed. The FAA leadership will follow up with community meetings, coordinated through our offices, to explain in detail the FAA’s plan to address the noise problems being experienced in our region.” Farr: “This plan of action is evidence the FAA is willing to consider the changes proposed by the community. For months, the commercial aircraft noise in Santa Cruz and the surrounding area has been terrible. From the beginning, I have told the FAA that they created this mess so it is up to them to fix it. “This is only a first step but it is a good one. It shows everyone is committed to developing some real solutions. I hope the FAA will continue to listen to the communities it serves and work with them to solve any problems that arise from the switch to the NextGen flight plan.” Speier: “My constituents have long been impacted by noise caused by aircraft operating at SFO and more recently at San Carlos and Half Moon Bay Airports. The FAA’s Initiative to Address Noise Concerns is a compilation of the ideas that were offered by the public regarding SFO at the FAA’s recent meetings in our three congressional districts, as well as requests made by the SFO Airport Community Roundtable. Some of these ideas may be deemed workable by the FAA and some may not. “However, having previously been resistant to taking community suggestions, the FAA, for the first time in many years, has committed to studying ideas submitted by the affected communities. I am gratified that the FAA is rolling up its sleeves to come up with solutions. The health of those who live under constant bombardment of airplane noise is being seriously compromised and the FAA has a responsibility to take action to address it.” The FAA Initiative to Address Noise Concerns can be viewed here. # # #
11.09.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Kicks Off Second Annual Congressional App Challenge November 9th, 2015 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today the launch of the second annual Congressional App Challenge for the 18th Congressional District. Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is a nationwide event that invites high school students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education disciplines. “This is an extraordinary opportunity for students in our congressional district, and I’m excited to help foster their interest in science, technology, engineering and math education,” said Eshoo, who co-chaired the inaugural competition. “The next decade is estimated to create approximately 8.5 million STEM job opportunities, but during that same time it is also estimated that the U.S. will face a shortage of 1 million STEM graduates. The Congressional App Challenge seeks to address this disparity by encouraging students to create their own app and pursue an education in STEM fields.” About the 2015 Congressional App Challenge The Congressional App Challenge is open to all high school students who live in or are eligible to attend a public high school located in the 18th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the Competition Submission Period between November 9, 2015 and midnight EST on January 15, 2016. The submitted apps will be judged by an appointed panel of individuals within the academic, software and entrepreneurial fields. The winning student’s app in each participating congressional district will be displayed in a U.S. Capitol exhibit. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found at CongressionalAppChallenge.us. # # #
11.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds Rejection of Keystone XL Pipeline November 6th, 2015 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on the announcement by President Obama that his Administration is rejecting the proposed Keystone XL pipeline: “President Obama announced today that his Administration is rejecting construction of the Keystone XL pipeline, a proposal that promised thousands of jobs, energy independence, and a win for our national economy. I couldn’t agree more with the President’s decision. “It became clear to me during hearings at the Energy and Commerce Committee that Keystone XL was simply a bad deal for the American people and here’s why: (1) It was discovered that only 35 permanent American jobs would be created, despite claims of thousands. (2) The Canadian tar sands oil, the dirtiest in the world, would have been shipped directly to international oil markets, meaning American consumers would not benefit from purported lower gas prices. And, (3) the U.S. would have to assume all of the risks in the event of a spill, a scenario that played out in a 2010 Kalamazoo River spill in Michigan with an estimated cleanup price tag of $1.2 billion. “I’ve also consistently opposed legislation considered by the Energy and Commerce Committee to exempt the proposal from longstanding environmental protections and consideration by the State Department. That opposition proved successful today. “Investment in renewable energy technologies and infrastructure is a far more prudent endeavor in the face of a changing climate. As global leaders prepare to convene in Paris next month for an international climate change summit, I look forward to the progress that can be made to ensure a clean energy future.” # # #
11.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Unveils Legislative Package to Reform FAA November 6th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) unveiled today a legislative package of reforms to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to combat major increases in aircraft noise documented across the country. The package consists of two bills aimed at mitigating the cause of the increase in noise: new flight paths associated with implementation of satellite-based flight navigation, known as NextGen. The recently introduced bills were unveiled as Eshoo and her Bay Area colleagues Reps. Sam Farr (CA-20) and Jackie Speier (CA-14) continue to work with FAA officials on a regional remedy. “Because of NextGen, constituents throughout my congressional district and our region are being subjected to increased jet engine noise,” said Eshoo, who is a founding member of the Quiet Skies Caucus. “The bills I’ve introduced require the FAA to plan with communities when implementing NextGen, and restore the EPA’s Office of Noise Abatement and Control which was defunded more than three decades ago. With this legislation we can mitigate unacceptably high levels of aircraft noise, while continually modernizing our aviation system.” The Quiet Communities Act would restore the EPA’s Office of Noise Abatement and Control, which was created by Congress in 1972. This office oversaw the nation’s noise control activities until it was defunded by Congress at the request of the Reagan Administration in 1981. In addition to restoring funding for this office, this bill requires the EPA Administrator to conduct a study of airport noise and examine the effectiveness of the FAA’s noise measurement methods, health impact thresholds, and abatement programs. This will bring transparency to the FAA’s current noise measurement and abatement practices. The FAA Community Accountability Act would require the FAA to work with local communities and limit noise impacts when planning and implementing new flight paths. Importantly, the FAA Community Accountability Act would require the FAA to reconsider existing routes that are exposing residents to unacceptably high levels of aviation noise. The bill also creates a new Community Ombudsman in each FAA region to monitor the impact of NextGen implementation on affected communities, serve as a liaison between airport communities and the FAA, and make policy recommendations to Congress and the FAA. # # #
11.05.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lofgren Electric Vehicle Legislation Passes House November 5th, 2015 Promotes Use of Electric Vehicles by Federal Employees Nationwide WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswomen Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) released the following statements today after the House of Representatives voted to reauthorize funding for the country’s federal highway programs for six years. The sweeping reauthorization included language of legislation introduced by Eshoo and Lofgren to promote electric vehicle use by federal employees nationwide. Their bipartisan legislation, the EV-COMUTE Act, was included as an amendment to the highway reauthorization passed in the House today by a vote of 363 to 64. The EV-COMUTE Act allows the General Services Administration (GSA) to construct, install and operate electric vehicle (EV) charging stations for private vehicle use at federal facilities at no cost to the taxpayer. A technical glitch in current law prevented the policy, which is already in place at the U.S. Capitol, from being implemented at other federal facilities. “The EV-COMUTE Act replicates a successful clean energy initiative in place at the U.S. Capitol and expands it to federal agencies nationwide, allowing commuters to plug in their electric vehicles at work for a small fee,” said Eshoo. “As the nation’s largest employer, the federal government should lead by example in offering workplace charging. Silicon Valley is home to thousands of electric vehicle owners, yet the more than 5,000 federal employees in my congressional district have no access to charging facilities at work because of a quirk in existing law. This legislation is a small but commonsense step in our global battle against climate change and will help keep the U.S. a leader in clean energy deployment.” “I first learned of this issue after a constituent wrote me a letter last year,” said Lofgren. “In it, he said he was ‘surprised and dismayed’ that it is illegal for federal facilities to provide electric vehicle charging stations for the public or their employees, even at no cost to taxpayers. My family has an electric car and I know they are an important part of improving efficiency and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. The House voting in favor of this commonsense policy serves as a powerful reminder of the role citizens play in generating new ideas and legislation.” The EV-COMUTE Act was written to provide federal workers with flexibility in their commute by enabling federal agencies to construct charging stations for employees with electric vehicles. The cost of installing and operating the charging stations will be fully covered by fees paid by employees who use the stations. # # #
10.29.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds NIH Push to Advance Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Research October 29th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement regarding the announcement of new research efforts at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to better understand Myalgic Encephalomyelitis, commonly referred to as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS). CFS is a debilitating and chronic multi-system disease characterized by extreme fatigue and has no known cause. “Chronic Fatigue Syndrome is a mysterious illness affecting millions of Americans,” Eshoo said. “Those who suffer from the disease experience debilitating fatigue, often unable to walk, talk or even eat. I applaud the NIH for directing a research working group to explore the causes and progression of this disease in hopes of eventually developing an effective treatment.” In a June 2015 letter, Eshoo prompted the NIH on how to bolster CFS research. Her inquiry was spurred by the circumstances of a constituent, Dr. Ronald W. Davis, whose son Whitney Dafoe suffers from the disease. Davis heads the Genome Technology Center at Stanford University and has advocated for further study into what he has called “the last major disease we don’t know anything about.” A February 2015 Institute of Medicine report concluded CFS is an under-funded and under-researched disease affecting as many as 2.5 million Americans. More information on the NIH announcement can be found here. # # #
10.28.2015	+ SHARE Reviews Are In: Eshoo, Walden Broadband Deployment Bill Garners Growing Bipartisan Support October 28th, 2015 ‘Dig once’ bill promotes broadband deployment & saves taxpayer dollars WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Chairman of the Subcommittee, recently introduced legislation to promote U.S. broadband deployment. The bipartisan Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2015—commonly referred to as ‘dig once’ legislation—would mandate the inclusion of broadband conduit (plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable) during the construction of any road receiving federal funding if there is a demonstrated need for broadband in the area within the next 15 years. Here is what people are saying: Matthew M. Polka, President and CEO, American Cable Association (ACA): “ACA supports the Eshoo-Walden broadband deployment bill because it will further reduce the cost of laying thousands of miles of fiber optic lines by private businesses. It’s also a win for taxpayers because the fiscally prudent ‘dig once’ approach championed by the Eshoo-Walden bill is designed to use scarce federal road-construction dollars to meet multiple important infrastructure objectives.” National Cable & Telecommunications Association (NCTA): “We applaud Chairman Walden and Ranking Member Eshoo for introducing the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2015, legislation that will help lower the cost for deploying broadband networks along federal highways. As the nation’s largest wired Internet provider, the cable industry welcomes efforts by policymakers to develop creative solutions that encourage more investment in broadband infrastructure so that we can continue to be a global leader in this important technology.” Doug Brake, Telecommunications Policy Analyst, Information Technology and Innovation Foundation (ITIF): “So-called ‘dig once’ policies can dramatically reduce the cost of deploying broadband Internet infrastructure by taking advantage of the opportunity to install new conduits whenever roads or sewers are under construction. By affirmatively requiring the Transportation Department to include these new conduits in federally financed highway projects, Rep. Eshoo’s bill will help ensure that U.S. broadband networks continue to flourish. Dig once policies are a smart way to leverage federal assets to enable further growth and competition in one of our most important assets—high-speed broadband. We hope this bill, co-sponsored by Rep. Greg Walden, moves quickly through the House.” Berin Szoka, President, TechFreedom: “There’s no better way for government to improve American broadband than to install ‘dig once’ conduits. They’ll make broadband deployment much cheaper, and promote competitive alternatives to cable. That means faster, cheaper broadband for all, benefiting marginalized rural areas and inner cities the most.” Jon Henke, Strategic Director, TechFreedom: “This bill could be the beginning of a reset on Washington’s paralyzed debate over broadband policy. The conduit is the real commons that everybody should have access to. A new era of broadband competition will begin when deployment is as simple as running a wire, not digging up a road.” Peter Davidson, Senior Vice President of Federal Government Relations, Verizon: “Reps. Eshoo and Walden’s proposal will enable numerous broadband providers to lay fiber lines faster, without the traffic disruption and extra expense that roadway digs and installations typically cause. It’s an obvious boon for the companies looking to invest in next-generation networks, products and services, but even more importantly the bill is a big win for consumers and their communities.” Kate Forscey, Government Affairs Associate Counsel, Public Knowledge: “This bill is a welcome sign of bipartisan consensus that broadband is essential for meaningful participation in daily life. The ‘dig once’ policy they propose will help to accelerate and streamline broadband deployment to all Americans, particularly to underserved communities nationwide and with limited federal investment. Notably, the current iteration of the bill marks the first bipartisan sponsorship of a ‘dig once’ policy. Public Knowledge applauds ongoing efforts of Congresswoman Eshoo and her colleagues to find common ground to promote deployment and ensure broadband access for all Americans. Broadband is now as critical an infrastructure as our roads and highways. By passing this bill, Congress will allow fiber providers to leverage our national highway system to build the information super-highway of the future.” John Jones, Senior Vice President for Public Policy and Government Relations, CenturyLink: “CenturyLink applauds U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden and Ranking Member Anna Eshoo for introducing the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2015, also known as ‘dig once’ legislation. This bill would require that broadband conduit be installed during any road construction that receives federal funding, thus making it easier and more cost-effective to connect more Americans to the high-speed information superhighway. We welcome the committee’s attention to this important issue and support efforts to remove barriers to broadband deployment.” Tim McKone, Executive Vice President of Federal Relations, AT&T: “We appreciate the bipartisan leadership of Ranking Member Anna Eshoo and Chairman Greg Walden to introduce legislation that will help lower the cost of broadband deployment throughout the nation. This bill will minimize the construction costs and inconveniences associated with the installation of fiber-optic communications facilities in areas where highways are being built or repaired with federal funding. We look forward to working with the bill’s sponsors and the full Committee as this bill progresses.” Mike Montgomery, Executive Director, CALinnovates: “Bipartisan legislation like the bill presented by Reps. Eshoo and Walden correctly assumes that American innovators will continue to push the possibilities of an interconnected society. This bill arms Americans with expansive capabilities, both now and in decades from now. Both sides of the aisle need to continue to advance forward-looking legislation that propels our country into the future.” Chip Pickering, CEO, INCOMPAS: “INCOMPAS supports the bipartisan effort of Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Walden to increase the deployment of broadband in our country through the ‘dig once’ legislation. The bill highlights the shortcomings of our current broadband infrastructure and draws attention to the many Americans who remain excluded from its connective benefits. INCOMPAS additionally welcomes the economic promise of the ‘dig once’ bill, which would save costs and decrease barriers to broadband deployment, thereby stimulating broadband competition.” Vince Jesaitis, Vice President for Government Affairs, Information Technology Industry Council (ITI): “Having long promoted efforts to incentivize and ease deployment of broadband networks and infrastructure, ITI strongly supports the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2015 introduced by Reps. Anna Eshoo and Greg Walden. This bipartisan bill addresses a widely recognized challenge of accessing infrastructure to deploy fiber and was most recently identified in the comments to, and recommendations of, the Broadband Opportunity Council. We offer our full support for Reps. Eshoo and Walden in this effort, and look forward to working with them to move this bill forward.” Gary Shapiro, President and CEO, Consumer Electronics Association (CEA): “We live in a world where having access to broadband networks is no longer a luxury. It is a competitive necessity. I have long maintained that we be smart enough to require that federally-financed highway projects include broadband, as connectivity is critical for U.S. citizens, businesses and our economy. Laying the infrastructure required for state-of-the-art broadband networks should not be an expensive afterthought.” Staci Pies, Public Policy and Government Relations Counsel, Google: “Not only is this an attractive option to providers who save the time and expense of digging, but it has the added benefit of reducing future disruption for local citizens (who probably don’t want to deal with a future road closure if it can be avoided).” # # #
10.27.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Bipartisan Budget Agreement October 27th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) issued the following statement regarding the bipartisan budget agreement announced by House and Senate leaders: “The announcement today of a bipartisan budget agreement by Congressional leaders is a remarkable step for a long-term compromise to fund the government. Article I of the Constitution gives Congress the exclusive power and responsibility to fund the government and, in the process, set priorities for our country. For more than four years Congress has abdicated this responsibility by simply passing continuing resolutions to keep the government open at outdated funding levels. Compromise, not partisanship, has won this round. “This two-year agreement makes progress for the American people by putting an end to the sequester; treating defense and non-defense funding equally; and strengthening the solvency of Social Security. It also very importantly ensures the full faith and credit of the United States by suspending the debt limit. “I also welcome the inclusion of provisions to free up additional spectrum for mobile broadband and reform the federal Spectrum Relocation Fund. Spectrum is a finite resource vital to our innovation economy and this agreement makes inroads toward meeting the high demand for mobile broadband and using available spectrum more efficiently.” # # #
10.22.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Foreign Ownership of Broadcast Licenses October 22nd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) proposal on foreign ownership of broadcast licenses. At the FCC’s Open Meeting today, the Commission unanimously approved a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to streamline and standardize the foreign ownership review process for broadcast licensees and applicants. The decision builds on a November 2013 declaratory ruling clarifying the FCC’s policy for foreign investment in broadcast licenses. “The FCC has taken an important step to see how to inject new investment and provide greater regulatory certainty which will in turn strengthen the broadcast industry,” Eshoo said. “Establishing a standardized process for broadcasters, just as the FCC does for other segments of the telecommunications industry, may more easily attract foreign investors. Consideration of this issue makes common sense, and is consistent with the Communications Act’s core principles of promoting diversity, localism and competition.” # # #
10.22.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Walden Introduce ‘Dig Once’ Broadband Deployment Bill October 22nd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Congressman Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Chairman of the Subcommittee, introduced today the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2015, commonly referred to as ‘dig once’ legislation. This bipartisan, commonsense legislation would mandate the inclusion of broadband conduit—plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable—during the construction of any road receiving federal funding if there is a demonstrated need for broadband in the area within the next 15 years. “Today our information highways are just as important as our interstate highways,” said Eshoo, who introduced similar legislation in 2009 and 2011. “By laying broadband conduit during construction of roads that receive federal funding, broadband providers can later install fiber-optic cable without costly excavation of newly-built roads. ‘Dig once’ is a commonsense bipartisan policy that will significantly reduce the cost of broadband deployment in our country.” “Paving the way for smoother deployment of state-of-the-art-broadband networks has long been a goal for our subcommittee. This legislation meets that goal and makes it easier to connect more Americans to this vital 21st century resource,” said Walden. “Whether seeking information, connecting with friends and family, or finding new customers or businesses, the Internet is the critical backbone of our digital economy. We have seen the great impact it can have on job creation and economic development. This legislation will help ensure these benefits spread even further.” The cost savings are significant. The Federal Highway Administration estimates it is ten times more expensive to dig up and then repair an existing road to lay fiber, than to dig a channel for it when the road is being fixed or built. According to a study by the Government Accountability Office, ‘dig once’ policies can save from 25 to 33 percent in construction costs in urban areas and approximately 16 percent in rural areas. A 2012 Executive Order implemented a ‘dig once’ policy similar to Congresswoman Eshoo’s original legislation. But the Executive Order only included a requirement for the Department of Transportation to provide guidance to states and encourage their implementation of a ‘dig once’ policy. This bill implements a more effective mechanism for adoption of ‘dig once.’ Eshoo concluded: “The 2012 Executive Order represents an important endorsement of ‘dig once,’ but states need more incentive to implement this commonsense policy.” The text of the bill can be found here. # # #
10.16.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Doyle Welcome FCC Investigation of Anti-competitive Practices in Special Access Market October 16th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) welcomed the Federal Communications Commission’s announcement today that it would begin investigating allegations that major telecom companies in the United States have been stifling competition in the $40 billion a year market for special access. The announcement of this investigation comes in the midst of the Commission’s examination of anti-competitive practices in the special access market by incumbent telecom companies. The lawmakers said: “We welcome the FCC’s announcement of its investigation into the terms and conditions being offered for special access services. For too long, companies that utilize special access service have alleged that these services are only offered with unreasonable conditions attached, aimed at driving competitors out of this space. Investigating these allegations is a critical part of the FCC’s ongoing evaluation of special access and Chairman Wheeler’s broader efforts to enable a more competitive telecommunications marketplace. “We believe that initiating this investigation in conjunction with the Commission’s efforts to examine allegations of anti-competitive practices of special access lines are both critical steps in reforming this marketplace.” Special access services are wholesale data lines leased by smaller carriers from larger incumbents like AT&T, Verizon, Frontier, and Century Link; and offered to small and medium sized organizations as dedicated data and voice services. They are used to operate private academic and business networks, connect cell towers to backbone, process credit card payments, and wide variety of other purposes. For most special access customers these lines are the only alternative to similar services offered by the large incumbents. Congressman Doyle and Ranking Member Eshoo have been urging the FCC to move forward on special access reform for nearly a decade, repeatedly calling on the FCC to advance reforms to this critical marketplace. ###
10.01.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill Vaccinates Against Majority of Hacks with ‘Cyber Hygiene’ & Network Security Management October 1st, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, today introduced legislation to combat the alarming rate of cyberattacks and cybercrime against U.S. computer networks. The Promoting Good Cyber Hygiene Act builds on President Obama’s 2013 Executive Order by instructing the National Institute of Standards and Technology, in consultation with the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Homeland Security, to establish voluntary best practices for network security, such as not using a default password and regularly applying software updates. “Our nation’s computer networks—public and private—are under constant attack from cyber criminals,” Eshoo said. “It’s estimated that these attacks cost our economy nearly half a trillion dollars annually in identity theft, stolen blueprints, exposed financial information, and more. The scary truth is that data security experts have suggested 90 percent of successful cyberattacks are due to system administrators overlooking two integral pillars of network security: cyber hygiene and security management. By instituting commonsense best practices, system administrators can better protect their networks and consumer data from a majority of known cyber threats.” According to Symantec’s annual Internet Security Threat study, cyberattacks against large companies increased 40 percent globally in 2014. Breaches have also grown in scale with major retail companies, including Home Depot, Target, Neiman Marcus and Sony, falling victim to massive attacks costing hundreds of millions of dollars. The public sector is not immune either. The federal Office of Personnel Management announced last week that 5.6 million fingerprint records were stolen by hackers in a breach. This is millions more than originally estimated and is in addition to highly sensitive information about employee health, financial history and families. A U.S. Government Accountability Office report released this week found “persistent weaknesses at 24 federal agencies” relative to data security. The report also found that “These deficiencies place critical information and information systems used to support operations, assets, and personnel of federal agencies at risk[.]” The Promoting Good Cyber Hygiene Act would help both system administrators and consumers better protect their networks and devices against known cyber threats by: Establishing a baseline set of voluntary best practices; Ensuring these practices are reviewed and updated annually; Making the established best practices available in a clear and concise manner on a publicly accessible website; and Instructing the Department of Homeland Security to study cybersecurity threats relating to mobile devices. Eshoo concluded: “Our digital world is imperfect, but this is not an acceptable excuse for the millions of consumers who’ve had their identities stolen, their bank accounts drained or their credit destroyed, especially if it could have been prevented.” Text of Promoting Good Cyber Hygiene Act # # #
09.21.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Amicus Brief Supporting FCC Net Neutrality Rules September 21st, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “Nearly 20 years ago, Senator Ed Markey (D-Mass.) and I served as conferees in the lead up to the passage of the 1996 Telecommunications Act. Recognizing that telecommunications technologies change rapidly, the Act was written to be technologically neutral and forward-looking. “Over the past two years, millions of Americans have weighed in with the FCC, the vast majority favoring strong, bright-line rules that prevent broadband providers from engaging in blocking, throttling and paid prioritization. “Today we join together in support of a common cause: to ensure consumers and businesses are protected against actions that threaten free speech, harm competition, or diminish the continued openness of the Internet. “The bicameral brief filed today with more than two dozen Members of Congress argues that the FCC has done precisely what Congress intended the Commission to do – classify broadband Internet access according to its best understanding of the technology of the day and how consumers use that technology. “In a battle that has pitted large broadband providers against millions of consumers and small businesses, the brief reflects our strong support for the FCC’s legally sound net neutrality rules and our continued commitment to the free and open Internet.” A copy of the amicus brief can be found here. # # #
09.21.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Markey Lead Members of Congress in Amicus Brief Supporting FCC Net Neutrality Rules September 21st, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and 27 members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals today in support of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) open Internet rules. The amicus supports the FCC’s decision that broadband Internet access is a telecommunications service and lies at the heart of the Commission’s Title II authority to put in place strong Open Internet rules. “The FCC has done precisely what Congress intended the Commission to do – classify broadband Internet access service according to its best understanding of the technology of the day, and how consumers use that technology,” write the members of Congress in their brief. “In light of the FCC’s findings – findings which are amply supported by evidence – this Court should uphold the FCC’s reasonable reclassification order.” The members of Congress, several of whom were instrumental in enacting the Telecommunications Act of 1996, state in the Amicus that the plain language of the Act supports the FCC’s actions. Congress crafted the definition of “telecommunications service” in the 1996 Act to make the term applicable to rapidly changing telecommunications technologies and markets on a technologically-neutral and forward-looking basis. Congress intended to preserve the FCC’s authority to forestall threats to competition and innovation in telecommunications services, even as the technologies used to offer those services evolve over time. Senator Markey and Rep. Eshoo previously have led Senate and House Democrats in calling on the FCC to put strong net neutrality rules in place by reclassifying broadband as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act. Other senators signing the Amicus are: Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisc.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Angus S. King, Jr. (I-Maine), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), Cory A. Booker (D-N.J.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.). Other House members signing the Amicus are: Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.), John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), Sam Farr (D-Calif.), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Michael M. Honda (D-Calif.), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Barbara Lee (D-Calif.), John Lewis (D-Ga.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-D.C.), Chellie Pingree (D-Maine), Jared Polis (D-Colo.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), José E. Serrano (D-N.Y.), Mark Takano (D-Calif.), Nydia M. Velázquez (D-N.Y.) A copy of the amicus brief can be found here. # # #
09.18.2015	+ SHARE Legislation to Expand California Coastal National Monument Introduced in Congress September 18th, 2015 Cotoni-Coast Dairies Property Included in Designation Effort WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) joined her colleagues Rep. Lois Capps (CA-24) and Rep. Jared Huffman (CA-2) to introduce the California Coastal National Monument Expansion Act, legislation to expand the boundaries of the California Coastal National Monument to include four new sites. This expansion of the National Monument would provide visitors with greater access to the coast, improve management of these areas, and highlight the historic, cultural, scientific and ecological significance of each of these public treasures. The expansion includes four onshore sites resulting in greater accessibility of the California Coastal National Monument and providing new areas for visitors to enjoy. The four sites include Trinidad Head (13 acres) and Lighthouse Ranch (8 acres) in Humboldt County; the Cotoni-Coast Dairies in Santa Cruz County (5,780 acres); and Piedras Blancas Light Station Outstanding Natural Area in San Luis Obispo County (20 acres). The bill also provides for the inclusion of several offshore rocks and small islands off the coast of Orange County that are currently excluded from the Monument. “These lands are rich with natural resources and majestic features,” said Eshoo, who introduced legislation earlier this year to designate the Cotoni-Coast Dairies property in her district a national monument. “California has a vibrant history of environmental protection and conservation of land, and it is in this spirit that I introduce the California National Monument Expansion Act. The bill assures the permanent recognition and protection of the lands and ensures that future generations will be able to learn from their history and enjoy their beauty.” “Expanding the California Coastal National Monument would provide greater access to this national treasure and ensure that these beautiful landscapes along California’s coast are preserved for all to enjoy,” said Capps. “I am particularly pleased that this legislation would incorporate Piedras Blancas Light Station Outstanding Natural Area into the California Coastal National Monument, an honor befitting this outstanding landmark, which is teeming with historic importance and natural beauty.” “I am proud to work with Representatives Capps and Eshoo to further protect our state’s breathtaking coast for future generations,” said Huffman. “To bring new lands on the North Coast into this National Monument is good for the economy and for the environment, and I look forward to working with my colleagues — along with local officials and communities, tribes, and businesses — to build the support necessary to see this through.” “Viewing the natural beauty of the California coast for the first time is an experience that connects generations of visitors,” said Rep. Sam Farr (D-Calif.). “Protecting these open spaces not only preserves that experience for generations to come, it will create economic opportunity in our communities right now.” Background The new designation permanently protects each of these areas from development and ensures stronger protections for a diverse array of wildlife, many of which are endangered. It would also help restore habitats and protect water quality by placing these properties under one management plan to allow for better coordination of available resources. Adding these lands to the existing monument makes them part of the Bureau of Land Management’s (BLM) National Conservation Lands program, making them eligible for Land and Water Conservation resources. The California Coastal National Monument, designated by President Clinton in 2000, stretches the entire 1,100 miles of California’s coastline and protects more than 20,000 small islands, rocks, exposed reefs and islands between Mexico and Oregon. It also protects the habitat for a variety of wildlife, including seabirds, California sea lions, and southern sea otters. Earlier this year, similar legislation was introduced in the Senate by U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein (S.1971). The text of the legislation can be viewed here. # # #
09.17.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Blumenthal Urge FCC to Enforce Exposure Limits for Those Who Work Near Wireless Towers September 17th, 2015 One in ten cell phone antenna sites violate FCC rules designed to protect workers from excessive radiofrequency radiation WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) are raising concerns about the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) efforts to ensure that those working in close proximity to cellular antennas are not exposed to dangerous levels of radiofrequency (RF) radiation. Writing to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler, Blumenthal and Eshoo noted that, despite the FCC’s human exposure limits and current guidelines aimed to protect workers from harmful RF levels, recent reports have identified the FCC’s failure to enforce these guidelines, putting the health and safety of an estimated 250,000 workers at risk. Blumenthal and Eshoo wrote: “Even though the FCC recommends that wireless carriers control exposure to harmful RF radiation using safety protocols such as signs, barricades, and training, it has come to our attention that these recommendations have not consistently been implemented to protect workers. The FCC has a responsibility to ensure the existence of and compliance with a comprehensive worker-safety framework.” “Excessive exposure to RF radiation leads to well-documented potential harms, especially to workers who spend time near the antenna and in the line of the antenna’s beam. At sufficient power levels and exposure durations, RF radiation has the ability to heat biological tissue. Thermal effects can include eye damage, sterility, and cognitive impairments.” “We urge the FCC and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to work together to enforce exposure limits and ensure wireless carriers are taking the required precautions to protect the safety of all persons who may be exposed to dangerous levels of RF radiation near wireless towers.” The Members also cited the increase in workers exposed to RF as cellular technology becomes increasingly prevalent and necessary, stating: “To close gaps in their networks and to satisfy the voracious consumer demand for their services, wireless carriers depend on leasing rooftop space and building access from property managers. Rooftop and building mounted antenna sites also endanger not only the wireless industry’s trained RF technicians, but also roofers, water proofers, electricians, carpenters, building maintenance personnel, HVAC technicians, painters, firefighters, and other workers who may come in close proximity and be placed at risk of RF injuries.” A copy of the letter to the FCC can be viewed below and here. Dear Chairman Wheeler, We write with concern for the health and safety of the estimated 250,000 people who work each year in close proximity to cellular antennas and may be exposed to radiofrequency (RF) radiation in excess of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC’s) human exposure limits. Excessive exposure to RF radiation leads to well-documented potential harms, especially to workers who spend time near the antenna and in the line of the antenna’s beam. At sufficient power levels and exposure durations, RF radiation has the ability to heat biological tissue. Thermal effects can include eye damage, sterility, and cognitive impairments. Even though the FCC recommends that wireless carriers control exposure to harmful RF radiation using safety protocols such as signs, barricades, and training, it has come to our attention that these recommendations have not consistently been implemented to protect workers. We urge the FCC and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to work together to enforce exposure limits and ensure wireless carriers are taking the required precautions to protect the safety of all persons who may be exposed to dangerous levels of RF radiation near wireless towers. To close gaps in their networks and to satisfy the voracious consumer demand for their services, wireless carriers depend on leasing rooftop space and building access from property managers. As a result, cellular antennas are now found atop all kinds of buildings, including apartment buildings, schools, hospitals, places of worship, fire stations, communication towers, and other public and private buildings. Even our nation’s cellular towers, which are generally free-standing structures with restricted external access, also pose both RF radiation and climber safety occupational hazards that need to be addressed to protect the workforce. Rooftop and building mounted antenna sites also endanger not only the wireless industry’s trained RF technicians but also roofers, water proofers, electricians, carpenters, building maintenance personnel, HVAC technicians, painters, firefighters, and other workers who may come in close proximity and be placed at risk of RF injuries. While wireless carriers take important precautions, such as outfitting their employees with protective equipment, providing RF exposure monitoring units, and even powering down antennas to eliminate the RF radiation hazard, their subcontractors and unaffiliated third-party workers are not regularly afforded these same protections. These subcontractors and third parties often receive no RF safety training and are left on their own to determine the existence, location, and degree of the RF radiation hazards. Further complicating the situation, RF radiation cannot be felt, and many cellular antennas these days are constructed in a camouflage style and made to look like part of the buildings they are attached to. Known as “stealth antennas,” they can be undetectable to the untrained eye. This practice further hinders efforts by even the most earnest workers to properly protect themselves. It is crucial that workers are able to take steps to safeguard themselves from the RF radiation. A report last October from the Wall Street Journal revealed that one in ten antenna sites does not adhere to FCC guidelines for providing the appropriate level of awareness and control to workers who may be exposed to RF radiation above the limits for the general population.[2] In addition, last year, Verizon Wireless and the FCC’s Enforcement Bureau entered into a consent decree for Verizon’s alleged violations of RF exposure limits at rooftop antenna sites in Hartford, Connecticut and Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It is unacceptable that RF warning signs have been found missing, mislabeled, unintelligible, or out-of-date, and that strategies to control access (e.g. barricades, locks, and fences) are in disrepair. In light of these problems, the FCC has a responsibility to ensure the existence of – and compliance with – a comprehensive worker-safety framework. We are pleased that the FCC’s March 27, 2013 Report and Order reminds FCC licensees of their obligation to address worker exposure issues, and clarifies that workers subject to the occupational limits must be fully aware of and able to exercise control over their RF exposure. We have also noted that the Further NPRM advances new specific requirements for ensuring licensees comply with exposure limits under the different RF exposure categories. We urge the FCC to move swiftly to finalize the Further NPRM, and to consult with OSHA and others to ensure that the final rule is effective. We also expect that in the interim, the FCC, in collaboration with OSHA, will continue to proactively enforce all existing requirements, including tower-climber safety, and hold accountable all licensees that fail to implement the safeguards required to protect workers. We look forward to hearing what next steps you have planned to make sure that the expansion of our telecommunications infrastructure does not come at the expense of the health and safety of hardworking Americans. Thank you for your attention to this very important occupational health and safety matter. Sincerely, # # #
09.16.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Welcomes Appointment of Special Envoy for Religious Minorities September 16th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement on the presidential appointment of Knox Thames as the Special Envoy to Promote Religious Freedom of Religious Minorities in the Near East and South Central Asia at the U.S. Department of State: “I welcome the long awaited appointment of Knox Thames to serve as the Special Envoy for Religious Minorities at the State Department,” said Eshoo. “The inhuman and rapid advance of ISIS across Syria and Iraq has not only exacerbated regional turmoil with massive displacement but has also led to the persecution of hundreds of thousands civilians for their religious beliefs. “The appointment of Mr. Thames will give a voice to the voiceless by devoting a high-level U.S official to restoring and preserving religious freedom in the Middle East as called for in my legislation passed by the 113th Congress with former Congressman Frank Wolf (R-Va.).” Eshoo serves as Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. Earlier this month, she introduced a bipartisan resolution with her Caucus Co-Chair, Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), declaring the violence taking place against religious minorities in the Middle East a genocide. # # #
09.11.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Iran Nuclear Agreement September 11th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement today after voting for H.R. 3461, a resolution of Congress to approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) reached between the P5+1 nations and Iran: “Today I voted for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. I did so because the world is approximately 90 days away from Iran obtaining a nuclear weapon, and this agreement is the most effective way of stopping that effort dead in its tracks. “After years of sanctions and then direct negotiations, the United States and its partners, the P5+1, have produced a plan with unprecedented concessions from Iran, together with the most rigorous inspections, restrictions and verifications regiment ever negotiated. “The agreement will reduce the number of Iran’s centrifuges by two-thirds; prevent Iran from producing weapons-grade plutonium; and eliminate 98 percent of Iran’s stockpile of enriched uranium. It grants the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) access to Iran’s nuclear program so that compliance is ensured, including notification to the agency of plans to construct new nuclear facilities. No facility – declared or undeclared – will be off limits. Decades of essential monitoring measures are included in the agreement that allow the IAEA to enforce these terms. “The United States can unilaterally resume the U.N. Security Council sanctions if there is any violation by Iran of its commitments in the next ten years, and there can be no veto from Russia or China. “This agreement is without precedent, and so is the current instability in the Middle East, undoubtedly fueled by the actions of Iran. It has the support of the entire United Nations, including the European Union, Russia, and China. “Experts from all aspects of our defense, diplomatic, and scientific communities support the agreement, including 36 top officials in the U.S. military, 29 of our nation’s leading scientists and engineers, 100 former ambassadors and diplomats, and more than 4,000 Catholic religious women. “The agreement has the support of more than 400 American Rabbis, as well as former top officials of the Israeli security forces, Mossad Chief Efraim Halevy and former Shin Bet Director Ami Ayalon. “Our nation’s most prominent nuclear scientists and engineers described their support for the agreement in a recent letter to President Obama, saying it is ‘technically sound,’ ‘stringent’ and ‘innovative.’ “And in their open letter to Congress, Catholic Sisters from across our country called on us to ‘risk on the side of peace’ by supporting the JCPOA. “No definitive alternative has been put forth by those who oppose the agreement. Furthermore, should the United States abandon the agreement, our country would be viewed as feckless, a nation whose word cannot be trusted and our international partners would no longer commit to sanctions. “For Israel, the only democracy in the Middle East, this, in my view, is an existential moment. By eliminating the possibility of Iran developing a nuclear weapon, Israel’s security is enhanced and so is the stabilization of the region by removing the threat of a nuclear Iran. “For all these reasons and more, I support this agreement and risk on the side of peace by voting for the JCPOA.” # # #
09.10.2015	+ SHARE Members Introduce Bipartisan Resolution Decrying Genocide Against Christians and Other Religious Minorities in Iraq and Syria September 10th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Juan Vargas (D-Calif.), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Dan Lipinski (D-Ill.), and Jeff Denham (R-Calif.) today announced the introduction of a bipartisan resolution (H. Con. Res. 75) denouncing the genocide being perpetrated against Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities in Iraq and Syria. “Christianity in the Middle East is shattered,” said Fortenberry, Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. “The ancient faith tradition lies beaten, broken, and dying. Yet Christians in Iraq and Syria are hanging on in the face of the Islamic State’s barbarous onslaught. This is genocide. The international community must confront the scandalous silence about their plight. Christians, Yezidis, and other religious minorities have every right to remain in their ancestral homelands.” “The dictionary defines genocide as the deliberate killing of a large group of people, especially those of a particular ethnic group or nation,” said Eshoo, Co-Chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. “Today these words are a reality as we witness the systematic extermination of religious minorities in the Middle East. The barbaric acts by ISIS, including torture and murder, and the displacement of millions of Yezidis, Christians, Turkmen, Sabea-Mandeans, Kaka’e, Kurds and Shi’a, must be stopped. The United States should provide humanitarian aid, protection, and faster refugee processing for these most vulnerable communities, but an official statement of the Congress of the United States must be made to label these atrocities carried out against Christians and other religious minorities for what they are…genocide.” “We are witness to some of the most brutal attacks on the sacred and fundamental right of religious freedom in recent history,” said Franks, Co-Chair of the International Religious Freedom Caucus. “The Islamic State continues its campaign of terror against Yezidis, Christians, and other religious communities. Today, I stand with my colleagues to call on the United States Congress to condemn these attacks as genocide. This Administration can no longer remain conspicuously silent on the plight of religious minorities caught in the wake of the Islamic State. It is imperative that the Administration develops a comprehensive strategy to defeat the Islamic State and ensure these ancient faith communities have the protection needed to deter future acts of genocide and radicalization in the lands they have inhabited for millennia.” “Last year, the world watched in horror as ISIS initiated a political and religious insurrection in the name of establishing a caliphate across Iraq and Syria,” said Vargus, Co-Chair of the International Religious Freedom Caucus. “Since the fall of Mosul, thousands of religious minorities—including Christians, Yezidis and Turkmen— have packed their belongings and fled to neighboring communities. Many thousands have been murdered or abducted, and an unknown number of women and girls have been sexually assaulted and forced into marriage. We must not mince words, today a genocide is being committed against Christians and other religious minorities in their historic homelands throughout the greater Middle East. These crimes against humanity must be properly acknowledged in order for the global community to appropriately respond to these infringements on religious freedom.” 09.10.15 Genocide Resolution # # #
08.24.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Ticket Lottery for Papal Address August 24th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today a lottery for a limited number of tickets to attend an address by Pope Francis before a Joint Meeting of Congress on Thursday, September 24, 2015. Only constituents of the 18th Congressional District can participate. Ticket holders will be able to view the address from the West Lawn of the U.S. Capitol via televised broadcast. “I’m excited to be able to extend an opportunity to my constituents to take part in this historic event,” Eshoo said. “While not all who wish to attend will be awarded a ticket, my office is working to ensure the lottery is conducted fairly and make the process a good one.” To participate, 18th Congressional District constituents can fill out an online form by Tuesday, September 8th by noon PST. There is only one entry per person and each entry will be for two tickets. Rep. Eshoo’s office will inform those who are selected by Thursday, September 10th. The complete rules of the lottery can be found with the online form to participate. # # #
08.07.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo: FCC Advancing U.S. Communications Landscape with Innovative Policies August 7th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted in favor of a number of key policies to improve our nation’s communications landscape: “This week the FCC took a series of important steps to free up valuable spectrum for licensed and unlicensed use; ensure access to 9-1-1 during power outages; and advance our country’s transition to an all-IP world in which competition, public safety and consumer protection are preserved. “In preparing for the world’s first voluntary incentive auction, I commend the Commission for strengthening wireless competition and expanding the nationwide availability of unlicensed spectrum. Ultimately, success of this auction should be measured not just by the revenue raised but by achieving these core policy goals embedded in the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012.” # # #
08.03.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Iran Nuclear Agreement August 3rd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement on the Iran nuclear agreement: “Consideration of the Iran nuclear agreement, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), represents one of the most consequential foreign policy votes I will cast during my tenure in Congress. “In the face of a legitimate threat of immense magnitude from a nuclear-capable Iran, I believe this agreement is the right path forward. My decision is not based on trusting Iran. To the contrary, the regime has a long list of offenses that I deeply object to, but there must be a mechanism in place to keep them from becoming a nuclear power. Nor would I suggest the agreement is perfect. But, in my view, to reject it would be a grave mistake for the United States, a repudiation of our allies in the effort, a danger to Israel, and further deterioration in the Middle East. “After years of crippling sanctions, ground work, and months of direct negotiations, the U.S., together with its diplomatic partners, produced extraordinary concessions and brought together support from the entire United Nations, including the European Union, Russia and China. “The prevailing goal of our country and the other P5+1 members throughout negotiations with Iran has been to prevent the regime from obtaining a nuclear weapon. This agreement achieves that goal by making significant inroads toward reducing Iran’s overall nuclear capabilities.” Background Throughout her 22 years of service, Congresswoman Eshoo has supported concrete and unambiguous diplomatic actions to deter destabilizing and confrontational regimes from pursuing nuclear weapons. This includes the crippling and effective sanctions that helped bring Iran to the negotiating table. Under the JCPOA, Iran is to reduce the number of its centrifuges by two-thirds; cease production of weapons-grade plutonium; and halt construction of a heavy-water reactor being built in Arak, which could produce weapons-grade plutonium. Iran will also be required to get rid of 98 percent of its stockpile of enriched uranium, and halt enrichment of uranium above 3.67 percent purity. Iran currently possesses enough enriched uranium to produce 10 nuclear weapons. With the agreement, Iran would be reduced to having a fraction of what is needed for a single nuclear weapon. Iran will be allowed to have nuclear power plants for peaceful purposes, but it cannot pursue development of nuclear weapons under the agreement. This is an agreement based on verification and enforcement, not trust. Sanctions against Iran are lifted only after its compliance is verified. The U.S. has imposed the most rigorous inspections, verifications and restrictions ever written on every aspect of Iran’s nuclear program, including its supply chain, research and development programs, and nuclear facilities. Iran must provide the IAEA with regular and unrestricted access to its uranium processing facilities, the Arak reactor site, centrifuge plants, and other operational facilities. Should Iran fail to comply at any point, the sanctions will automatically be reactivated. The impetus for this agreement is not rooted in theoretical risk. While Iran has indicated that it wishes to be a civil nuclear power, the country’s breakout time in which it can produce enough fissile material needed for a nuclear weapon is currently two to three months. Simply walking away for a better deal as some critics have suggested would be, in Eshoo’s view, a grave mistake and put our ally Israel and the region at undue risk. There is absolutely no guarantee that the P5+1 would remain with the U.S. in the aftermath of a rejected agreement and be willing to return to the negotiating table. Additionally, in the absence of the agreement, Iran will continue to produce enough weapons-grade plutonium for one to two nuclear weapons every year, and the consequences would be immediate and dire. Congresswoman Eshoo’s open letter to constituents regarding her position on the JCPOA can be viewed here. # # #
07.31.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Formally Designate 129th Rescue Wing Facilities July 31st, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) has introduced legislation (H.R. 3341) to designate the 111-acre cantonment area at Moffett Federal Airfield housing the 129th Rescue Wing as Moffett Air National Guard Base. Unlike most other military installations across the country, the 129th Rescue Wing’s facilities at Moffett Airfield were never granted a formal name. Eshoo solidified Moffett Airfield as the unit’s permanent home in 2010. “Every minute of every day, the men and women of the 129th Rescue Wing stand ready and able to respond in an emergency,” Eshoo said. “These highly decorated individuals utilize specialized capabilities in a wide range of environments, from wildfires and floods to earthquakes and hurricanes. They’ve saved countless lives at sea, and deploy worldwide to conduct combat search and rescue operations. They are exceptional.” She continued, “By formally designating the Moffett Air National Guard Base, we honor the men and women of the 129th Rescue Wing and usher in a symbolic recommitment to public safety and to those who protect us.” The text of Eshoo’s bill can be found here: H.R. 3341 Bill Text # # #
06.26.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails Constitutionality of Same-Sex Marriage June 26th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling today in the case of Obergefell v. Hodges. The Court ruled that same-sex marriage is constitutional. “It’s a banner day for equality in America. A reflection of an overwhelming majority of Americans who support same-sex marriage, the Court’s decision ensures its legal recognition in all 50 states. “Our work, however, is not yet complete to bring full rights to the LGBT community. We must continue the fight for the full protections long overdue to LGBT Americans, who can still be fired for who and what they are. Congress should take up a civil rights bill to correct this civil wrong. “Today our nation has taken a giant step forward to make good on the words of our pledge of allegiance, ‘with liberty and justice for all.’” # # #
06.25.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails Supreme Court Ruling on Legality of Affordable Care Act Tax Credits June 25th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling today in the case of King v. Burwell. The Court ruled that it is legal for Americans who live in states that use the federal HealthCare.gov exchange to receive federal tax credits for their health insurance: “This is yet another landmark victory for millions of Americans who have been able to obtain health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. The Court has now ruled that the law is not only constitutional, but that it’s legal for Americans in states using the HealthCare.gov exchange to continue to benefit from federal tax credits to help pay for health insurance. “More than 16 million Americans have gained health insurance coverage since the Affordable Care Act became law, and the nation’s rate of uninsured is at the lowest level ever. Coverage is affordable, with 85 percent of enrollees claiming tax credits. Consumers are enjoying greater competition and choice, Medicaid expansion is helping millions of low-income Americans obtain care, and young adults are getting covered. “Today’s decision further affirms the Affordable Care Act will remain woven into the fabric of America’s health care system.” # # #
06.23.2015	+ SHARE Bicameral Call for Greater Transparency in Political Spending June 23rd, 2015 Rep. Eshoo and Senator Whitehouse Lead Over 100 Members of Congress in Urging President to Act WASHINGTON, D.C.—In separate letters sent by House and Senate lawmakers today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) led 104 House Members and 26 Senators, respectively, in calling on the president to issue an executive order requiring companies that do business with the federal government to fully disclose their political contributions. “Taxpayers have a right to know where their money is spent and you have the power to ensure that the American people can obtain this information,” the House lawmakers wrote in a June 23, 2015 letter to President Obama. “With public funds come public responsibilities, and any company receiving federal tax dollars should be required by executive order to fully disclose their political spending in a timely and accessible manner.” Senators echoed the same sentiment, saying, “Political spending by government contractors is a problem you can address without congressional authorization. You would be on solid legal ground if you were to issue an executive order requiring disclosure of political spending by entities that have been awarded government contracts and their senior leadership… An executive order will not solve our campaign finance problems but it will at least be a step in the right direction, and will show your Administration’s commitment to transparency and fairness.” Under current law, the president can take immediate action to increase transparency by requiring companies that receive federal contracts to fully disclose their political expenditures. Among the top 15 recipients of federal contracting dollars, a recent analysis by Public Citizen found that only 47 percent fully disclose their contributions to non-disclosing 501(c)(4) organizations. In an April letter to White House counsel, Whitehouse was joined by Sens. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Tom Udall (D-N.M.), Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) in urging the administration to take similar action. Senators joining today’s letter include Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and members of the Democratic leadership, including Sens. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), and Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.). This is the fourth time Eshoo has led her colleagues in calling on President Obama to issue an executive order. She first wrote to him on the issue in 2011. House Members joining today’s letter include Rep. Donna F. Edwards (D-Md.), Chairwoman of the Democracy for All task force, and other members of the House Democratic leadership. A copy of today’s letter from House lawmakers can be viewed here. Current Signers (104): Eshoo, Capuano, Israel, Edwards, Grijalva, Ellison, Davis (Calif.), Van Hollen, Norton, Larson, Cárdenas, Polis, Pingree, Lofgren, Gutiérrez, Chu, Crowley, DelBene, Brady (Penn.), Lowenthal, Capps, Farr, Sherman, Hahn, Roybal-Allard, Takano, Clark, Loebsack, Tonko, Brownley, Matsui, Yarmuth, Kaptur, McCollum, Bonamici, Kelly (Ill.), Lee, McGovern, Honda, Lowey, Conyers, Esty, Sarbanes, Pocan, Nolan, Slaughter, Nadler, Watson Coleman, Fattah, Schiff, Welch, Deutch, Walz, Dingell, Gallego, Tsongas, Garamendi, Rice (N.Y.), Huffman, Moore, Boyle, Langevin, Green (Texas), Price (N.C.), Lewis, Lieu, Speier, Jackson Lee, Lawrence, Lujan Grisham, Cartwright, Blumenauer, Kilmer, Cicilline, Frankel, Napolitano, Quigley, Moulton, Schakowsky, Luján, McNerney, Cummings, Richmond, Becerra, Swalwell, C. Maloney, Courtney, DeFazio, Murphy (Fla.), Rangel, DeSaulnier, Carson, Serrano, Grayson, DeLauro, Larsen, Pallone, Duckworth, Castor, Clarke, Heck (Wash.), Doyle, Jeffries, Hastings. A copy of the Senate letter can be viewed here. Senate Signatories (26): Sheldon Whitehouse, Al Franken, Bernie Sanders, Tom Udall, Elizabeth Warren, Patrick Leahy, Chuck Schumer, Dick Durbin, Patty Murray, Sherrod Brown, Kirsten Gillibrand, Chris Coons, Ed Markey, Tammy Baldwin, Gary Peters, Jack Reed, Robert Menendez, Bob Casey, Richard Blumenthal, Cory Booker, Ben Cardin, Michael Bennet, Jeff Merkley, Mazie Hirono, Dianne Feinstein, and Amy Klobuchar. # # #
06.18.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Vote to Expand Broadband Access June 18th, 2015 Commission Approves Lifeline Modernization Plan WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding a vote by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to modernize the Lifeline program. Since 1985, Lifeline has provided a discount on phone service to low-income Americans. The new plan recognizes a growing need for access to the Internet and would modernize the program to include a discount on broadband service. “Access to broadband is the 21st century’s lifeline,” Eshoo said. “It is a pathway to jobs, education, health care and much more. The steps taken by the FCC today to modernize Lifeline and add broadband ensures that low-income Americans will have access to this critical communications tool. It also furthers our nation’s progress toward bridging the digital divide.” The FCC has estimated that nearly 100 million Americans do not have broadband Internet services at home. Several prominent studies by Pew and the FCC have strongly suggested that broadband adoption rates in urban and rural communities are largely associated with income levels and the high cost of broadband services. While the broadband penetration rate is over 90 percent nationwide among households making over $50,000 a year, that figure drops to 68 percent for homes bringing in $30,000 to $50,000 a year, and to less than half in households making under $30,000. # # #
06.17.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pallone Decry GOP’s Politically-Motivated Attacks on the FCC June 17th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-N.J.) and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) issued the following statement in response to continued attacks by Republican appropriators on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved the FY 2016 Financial Services and General Government bill that slashes the FCC’s budget by $25 million and includes politically-motivated policy riders that attempt to block the Commission from protecting net neutrality: “House Appropriations Committee Republicans kept up their business-as-usual attack today on the Federal Communications Commission, but these efforts hold the potential for extraordinarily bad outcomes for American consumers. The appropriations bill approved by the Committee undermines the FCC’s consumer protection mission by slashing the Commission’s budget and attaching a litany of partisan policy riders, even on FCC issues that the Energy and Commerce Committee has addressed in a bipartisan manner. This is yet another attempt by House Republicans to wrangle a political win at the expense of good policy for the American people.” # # #
06.17.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Fortenberry, Denham Call on White House to Direct Assistance to Persecuted Christians June 17th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Jeff Denham (R-Calif.) issued the following statement after meeting with the White House National Security team to urge assistance to persecuted Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East. The lawmakers suggested a three-pillar approach that includes humanitarian aid, special refugee status in the U.S. for persecuted individuals and families who wish to leave, and direct military assistance for Christian self-defense forces in the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). “Christianity in the Middle East is shattered. ISIL’s genocidal campaign of religious cleansing has placed horrific pressure on the region’s ancient Christian communities and other faith minorities. Christians have a claim as much as anyone to live in their ancestral homelands. The United States can come to their aid by providing humanitarian assistance, special refugee status for victims, and empowering them to defend themselves. “Victims of religious persecution are in desperate need of humanitarian aid in the face of extremist and violent acts from groups like ISIL. USAID partners have reached only 24 percent of displaced populations residing outside of camps with non-food humanitarian assistance. A countless number of victims are slipping through the cracks, and the United States must bolster this effort. “Persecuted peoples who wish to leave should have access to a priority refugee status process with the State Department. The current multi-year wait period is simply too long for religious minorities under constant threat of death, torture and starvation. “We were also pleased that Deputy National Security Advisor Ben Rhodes and staff for the National Security Council shared a desire for developing a pathway to grant certain local security forces—including Christian groups—a status similar to that of National Guard units, enabling them to provide better protective zones for their communities while supporting a national security mission. “The stability and cultural identity of the Middle East depends in part on its vibrant mosaic of religious minorities. Christians in the region are longstanding pillars of civil society and essential allies in the efforts to promote pluralism and combat extremism. As ISIL works to exterminate the innocent and vulnerable members of this faith tradition, all people of good will should express concern for their protection—a cause that is essential to civilization itself.” Fortenberry, Eshoo and Rep. Juan Vargas (D-Calif.) led passage of a bipartisan resolution (H. Res. 683) last year condemning the severe persecution that Christians and other ethnic and religious minority communities are suffering in Iraq. The resolution also called for an international humanitarian intervention to aid these innocent civilian groups. Fortenberry is a Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. He was recently appointed Co-Chair of the Caucus for Religious Minorities in the Middle East. Eshoo Co-Founded and Co-Chairs the Caucus for Religious Minorities in the Middle East. # # #
06.12.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes on Trade-Related Legislation June 12th, 2015 Opposes Fast Track Trade Authority; Supports Aid for Displaced American Workers WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after voting on trade-related legislation in the House today: Reauthorization of the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) Program “Today the House voted on legislation to reauthorize for six years the Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program which helps American workers displaced by globalization. Consistent with my record of supporting this program, I voted for the bill. It ultimately failed to pass the House by a vote of 116 to 302. “A re-vote of TAA is expected next week because the entirety of the trade legislation considered today must pass in order for it to be sent to the president for his signature. Reauthorization of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), or Fast Track “The House also took up and passed by a vote of 219 to 211, legislation to authorize ‘fast track’ authority for the president. I voted against the bill because fast track disallows any ability of Congress to improve proposed trade agreements for the American people by debating and amending. The bill instead only allows Members of Congress to exercise an up or down vote. No amendments and no debate are allowed. The Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 “A related bill to make important updates to our nation’s trade enforcement efforts on our borders also passed the House by a vote of 240 to 190. I voted against the bill because it carried a number of ‘poison’ amendments that undermine important protections in any future trade agreement.” # # #
06.11.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Welcomes Court Decision to Implement Net Neutrality Rules June 11th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit denied a petition by several telecom companies and industry trade groups to delay implementation of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) net neutrality rules. The rules remain on schedule to be implemented on June 12th. “On June 12th millions of Americans will receive what they’ve long asked for: effective, enforceable net neutrality protections to keep the Internet free and open,” Eshoo said. “The Court’s decision today is a critical validation that the new rules to protect an open Internet are grounded in strong legal footing and can endure future challenges by broadband providers. Millions of consumers, entrepreneurs, innovators and others stand by this, and today the Court agreed with them.” # # #
06.09.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th District Winners of Congressional Art Competition June 9th, 2015 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Together with students, parents and teachers, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced the 18th Congressional District winners of the Congressional Art Competition on Saturday, June 6th at the Palo Alto City Hall. This year, Eshoo’s office received 20 entries from high school students from throughout her congressional district. 1st Place: Jennifer Wang Saint Francis High School Name of Artwork: Victory 2nd Place: Rachel Bidinost Mercy High School Name of Artwork: Table for Four Honorable Mention: Sara Lucero Leigh High School Name of Artwork: The Fallen Honorable Mention: Isabella Schreiber Sequoia High School Name of Artwork: Afternoon by the Bay Honorable Mention: Andrea Lu Mercer Island High School Name of Artwork: Pure and Simple “Bravo to this year’s winners of the Congressional Art Competition,” Eshoo said in a statement. “Once again, the great artistic talent of students and their enormous potential was showcased.” A photo of Rep. Eshoo with Jennifer Wang and her family can be viewed here. About the Congressional Art Competition Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has hosted an annual visual art competition for high school students to recognize artistic talent throughout the nation. Attracting more than 650,000 participants nationwide to date, the competition calls for submissions of paintings, drawings, collages, photographs and computer-generated art. Judging in the 18th Congressional District competition is done by an independent panel of art community members. This year’s judging panel included: Community leader and member of the Director’s Advisory Council for Stanford University’s Cantor Art Center Jill Freidenrich, Anna Speaker, Development Coordinator for the Pacific Art League, and Mahmut Keskekci, local artist and gallery owner. The winning artwork from each congressional district is exhibited for a full year at the U.S. Capitol. Winners receive two round-trip tickets to Washington D.C. for the annual awards ceremony and launch of the exhibition. Each congressional district winner also receives a one-year subscription to Adobe Creative Cloud™, scholarship opportunities from the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD), and other contributions from national sponsors. # # #
06.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Honors Local Service Academy Appointees June 6th, 2015 PALO ALTO, Calif.—At a reception on Friday, June 5th, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) hosted a reception at Moffett Federal Airfield in honor of this year’s U.S. Service Academy appointees from the 18th Congressional District. Background on 2015 Service Academy Appointments Every year, Rep. Eshoo nominates a number of outstanding young women and men who live in the 18th Congressional District to the U.S. Service Academies. Ranked among the finest educational institutions in the world, the Service Academies prepare cadets and midshipmen for a lifetime of leadership and service in the Armed Services. This year, 10 constituents from the 18th Congressional District were appointed to a U.S. Service Academy. They are: USMA (Westpoint) Elliot Herman, Monte Sereno Madeline Ryu, San Jose USNA (United States Naval Academy) Cameron Kirkpatrick, Menlo Park Jonathan Rogers, Palo Alto Matthew Sears, Los Altos Matthew Wilcox, Los Gatos USAFA (United States Air Force Academy) Steven Dinneen, Los Altos Jennifer Huynh, San Jose Kanchan Potter, Palo Alto Falcon Foundation (USAFA Preparatory School) Dylan Zorn, Los Altos # # #
06.04.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pitts & Schakowsky Join in Bipartisan Effort to End Doping of Racehorses June 4th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) joined with Congressman Joe Pitts (R-Pa.) and Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.) to re-introduce legislation to end doping in horseracing and kick cheaters out of the sport. H.R. 2641, The Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act, would provide the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) with authority to clean up the sport and enforce anti-doping standards in races with simulcast wagering. USADA is a non-governmental organization that is designated as the official anti-doping agency for the U.S. Olympics and works with sports leagues to strengthen clean competition policies. This legislation is substantively identical to legislation introduced in the previous Congress by Reps. Eshoo and Pitts. “The stakes are high this year for one of our country’s top athletes, American Pharoah, who will be vying for the Triple Crown in the Belmont Stakes on Saturday,” Eshoo said. “But underlying this potentially history-making race is a plague on horseracing that still goes unnoticed and unaddressed: doping. This cruel and dangerous practice with race horses causes an average of 24 horses to drop dead every week, and it’s still permitted in the U.S. The Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act will outlaw doping in horse racing and create a culture of safety for some of Mother Earth’s most majestic creatures.” “I am proud to reintroduce this important legislation,” said Pitts. “Before more people and animals are hurt, we need to put a responsible independent authority in charge of cleaning up racing. The American horse racing industry needs to align its standards with the international rules that prohibit drug use on race day. Our bill is a sensible, bipartisan measure to restore trust in racing and protect lives.” “Doping is a serious problem in today’s horseracing industry. That is why I am so pleased to join my colleagues today to introduce the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act,” said Schakowsky. “This bipartisan bill would put an end to this terrible practice, making sure that recognized veterinary standards are met to protect racehorses and prevent dangerous drugging that can lead to pain, suffering and even death.” Horseracing showcases the beauty of an iconic American animal. The industry also has a $10 billion annual economic impact and sustains about 380,000 jobs nationwide. Under the legislation, USADA would develop rules for permitted and prohibited substances and create anti-doping education, research, testing and adjudication programs for horseracing. It would also: Put an end to race day medication; Set a harmonized medication policy framework for all races with interstate simulcast wagering; Require stiff penalties for cheating, including “one and done” and “three strikes, you’re out” lifetime bans for the worst cases; and Ensure racehorse drug administrations comply with veterinary ethics. The bill would enable USADA to act as the anti-doping body without amending the Interstate Horseracing Act or involving any federal agency or regulation. The legislation would not require any federal taxpayer funds. # # #
06.03.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Makes Case for Unmasking Secret Sponsors of Political Ads June 3rd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, made a strong case today for increasing transparency in U.S. elections. Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, voted on legislation at a Committee markup to reform rules and processes at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). Eshoo and Committee Democrats offered an amendment requiring the FCC to update its rules so that the true sponsors of political ads on the public airwaves are disclosed. The American public currently has no way of knowing who is paying for the political ads, or how much they’re spending. Republicans ultimately blocked the amendment, citing threats to free speech. Video of Eshoo’s remarks can be viewed here. Background Congresswoman Eshoo is a staunch advocate for campaign finance reform and has focused much of her recent efforts on creating more transparency in elections. In a May 18, 2015 op-ed in the San Jose Mercury News, Eshoo wrote, “Transparency in politics is a critical step toward tipping the scales of power back to the people, and we should start by disclosing the true sponsors of political advertisements aired on the public airwaves.” With the 2016 presidential campaigns commencing and experts estimating a record $10 billion in outside spending, Eshoo is redoubling her efforts. She cosponsors the Keeping Our Campaigns Honest (KOCH) Act, legislation that creates transparency so voters know who the sponsors of political ads are and how much money is being spent. # # #
05.21.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lance Bill to Bolster Development of Lifesaving Drugs Clears Major Committee Hurdle May 21st, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Congressman Leonard Lance (R-N.J.) released the following statements today after bipartisan legislation they authored was unanimously voted out of the Energy and Commerce Committee as part of the 21st Century Cures Act. The lawmakers’ legislation, the FDA Safety Over Sequestration Act (FDA SOS Act), exempts Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fees from sequestration. FDA user fees are paid by industry to hire staff at the agency to process applications for new drugs and medical devices. In the event of another sequester, such as the budget sequestration of 2013, the FDA could lose tens of millions of dollars in user fees, preventing it from meeting its Congressionally-mandated responsibilities and leaving patients without lifesaving therapies. “Today the Energy and Commerce Committee acted unanimously on bipartisan legislation to improve patient safety and the development of lifesaving therapies,” said Eshoo, who serves as a senior member on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “I couldn’t be more pleased to see this legislation advance.” “Sequestering FDA user fees is irresponsible public policy, so I am pleased to see action to correct this issue pass out of the Energy and Commerce Committee as part of the 21st Century Cures Initiative,” said Lance, who is a member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee. “Federal health agencies must have the critical tools and resources to approve new medicines and medical devices that are safe and effective. FDA user fees are private dollars earmarked specifically for patients, public health and medical innovation and I am proud to have worked with my friend and colleague Congresswoman Eshoo on this issue.” Eshoo and Lance have concerns that a repeat of the 2013 sequester could reduce not only the FDA’s budget, it would also reduce industry-financed user fees to the agency. While manufacturers were paying the full cost of user fees (as mandated by statute), a significant portion of those funds were not distributed to the agency. After formal requests to Congressional appropriators from Eshoo and Lance, the funds were ultimately restored to the agency, but not without detrimental short and long-term effects. Another sequester could have compounding and devastating effects on patient safety. “The FDA’s user fees are 100 percent private sector dollars,” Eshoo continued. “If the intent of sequestration is to limit public spending, withholding private monies is counterintuitive. Whether one agrees or disagrees with sequestration, private dollars should not be held hostage by the policy. It discourages investment in medical innovation and denies patients access to timely and potentially lifesaving therapies.” Background The FDA SOS Act is supported by PhRMA, AdvaMed, the Medical Device Manufacturers Association, the California Life Sciences Association, Leukemia Lymphoma Society, Gilead, Genentech, Patient Services Inc., and the National Health Council. FDA user fees are designed to supplement Congressional appropriations and help to expedite the approval process for new medical therapies. An efficient FDA encourages innovation, promotes economic growth, and improved the outcomes of patients. Pharmaceutical user fees were first introduced in 1992, in response to dangerously slow approval times for new drugs. After witnessing the success of drug user fees, Congresswoman Eshoo wrote legislation to create medical device user fees which have been in effect since 2002. These user fees have come to represent a vital collaboration between the FDA and industry. Just last year, Congress passed legislation to renew and increase FDA user fees in return for a strengthened and improved review process. # # #
05.13.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Bipartisan Bill to Protect Free Speech on the Internet May 13th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, today led introduction of bipartisan legislation to enhance free speech protections for consumers on the Internet. Reps. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) and Jared Polis (D-Colo.) are also original cosponsors of the legislation. The SPEAK FREE Act of 2015 will protect citizens from frivolous lawsuits that target their First Amendment Rights. Based on the Texas Citizens Participation Act, this bill will prevent bad actors from using a lawsuit to silence public opinion simply because they don’t agree with it. These lawsuits, known as SLAPPs (Strategic Lawsuits Against Public Participation), pose a threat not only to free speech, but to the modern information economy. Protecting the right to free speech drives economic opportunity by paving the way to new forums for expression, like YouTube, or by facilitating the rise and fall of products or services through competition and honest buyer feedback. The SPEAK FREE Act will provide a federal backstop to state anti-SLAPP laws by creating a process similar to that in Texas and California, where expensive court proceedings are delayed and claims can be dismissed if the defendant can show that a SLAPP suit cannot succeed on the merits. “Frivolous lawsuits known as SLAPPs undermine a cornerstone of our democracy and the free and open Internet—free speech,” said Eshoo. “When an Internet user chooses to review a product or service online, they should not have to fear being sued by that company just because they offer a review that isn’t a glowing one. The SPEAK FREE Act ensures nationwide protections against SLAPPs without preempting strong state laws like California’s pioneering anti-SLAPP law. Most importantly, this legislation protects free speech for Americans on the Internet.” “If you post an honest review on sites like Yelp or TripAdvisor, or if you stand up and voice your opinion about any issue of concern for you or your community, you shouldn’t have to fear being silenced by someone with money to burn who is abusing our legal system,” said Farenthold. “My SPEAK FREE Act would take the protections of the well-regarded Texas anti-SLAPP law and make them a floor for safeguarding free speech nationwide. This is about protecting the First Amendment – and it’s about protecting the modern information economy that thrives as our public discourse thrives. Most of us are familiar with the expression ‘I disapprove of what you have to say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.’ That attitude toward free speech is as important than ever in the information age, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to bolster free speech rights with this bill.” “By threatening punitive action against consumers who use online services such as TripAdvisor or Yelp to leave anything other than glowing reviews, there are those who would stifle the same free exchange of opinions that has made the internet such a vital tool for communicating and conducting commerce,” said Issa. “The SPEAK FREE Act takes important steps to ensure the internet’s status as a critical economic engine remains intact. Consumers have a right to express their opinions without fear of punitive action.” “Freedom of speech is one of the most fundamental principles engrained in our nation’s founding, and the price of that freedom, like every other, is eternal vigilance,” said Franks. “One of the most basic aspects of the Constitution is the freedom of speech, which we, as Members of Congress, are bound by a solemn oath to protect and preserve. Without the ability to engage in unregulated public discourse, our founders never would have been successful in their efforts to resist tyranny and establish this great Republic. To maintain that greatness, we must continue to protect free speech in the ever increasing arenas of public discourse, including the internet. Congressman Farenthold’s SPEAK FREE Act is one way we can fulfill our oath and protect the most vital of our American liberties.” “Countless Americans have found themselves on the receiving end of baseless lawsuits simply because they dare to speak their mind in an op-ed, a blog post, or an online forum,” said Polis. “The price of an individual’s decision to exercise his or her First Amendment rights should not be years of costly legal battles. The SPEAK FREE Act protects the openness of the Internet and every person’s right to free speech by helping Americans defend themselves against frivolous SLAPPs.” Full Text of the SPEAK FREE Act can be viewed here. # # #
04.29.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Reintroduces American Cures Act April 29th, 2015 Bill Bolsters Needed Investments in America’s Biomedical Research Initiatives WASHINGTON, D.C.—With an alarming decline in federal investment in biomedical research threatening the nation’s standing as a leader in discovery and innovation, senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) today reintroduced the American Cures Act. First introduced in the 113th Congress, the legislation bolsters all federal agencies responsible for conducting biomedical research: the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Department of Defense Health Program (DHP), and the Veterans Medical & Prosthetic Research Program. The legislation increases their funding each year at a rate of GDP-indexed inflation, plus 5 percent. Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.), Assistant Majority Leader, is the lead sponsor of companion legislation in the Senate. “Investment in biomedical research is at unprecedented lows, jeopardizing our national health and preventing future breakthroughs,” Eshoo said. “More than half of basic research funding in the U.S. comes from the federal government, yet today we are spending two-thirds less on research and development than we did in 1965. At this rate, we’re curtailing discovery and adding to the overall cost of health care in America for lack of progress. By reinvesting in biomedical research, Congress can help transform America’s personal and fiscal health.” Background: In 2011, 53 percent of all funding for basic research came from the federal government, yet as a percentage of the total federal budget, the federal government spends two-thirds less on research and development today than it did in 1965. At NIH – the foremost biomedical research institute in the world – the number of research grants the agency is able to fund has declined every year over the past 10 years. The institutes awarded 12.5 percent fewer grants in 2014 than in 2003. Grant applications over the same period increased by almost 50 percent, demonstrating a skyrocketing appetite for scientific and technological progress in America’s biomedical industry. As investment in biomedical research has stagnated, the cost of treating diseases is only expected to rise. In 2013, the California Healthcare Institute estimated that the cost of caring for people with Alzheimer’s and other dementias will increase from approximately $203 billion to $1.2 trillion per year by 2050. Much of this expense is borne by Medicare and Medicaid and does not account for the sacrifices made by caregivers. Alzheimer’s is not unique: Diabetes, heart disease, cancer, arthritis, kidney disease and stroke all cost billions of dollars. The American Cures Act would reverse these trends. Making a serious, sustained investment in federally-funded biomedical research is especially critical as countries around the world are placing a priority on their own research investments. Between 1999 and 2009, Asia’s share of worldwide research and development expenditures grew from 24 percent to 32 percent, while American expenditures fell from 38 percent to 31 percent. In the meantime, the European Union has committed to a five-year plan to boost biomedical research. Rep. Eshoo was a leader in the effort to double the NIH’s budget in the 1990’s and key to the one-time infusion of $10 billion appropriated to the agency under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. While these increases were critical investments in research and our economy, a sustained investment will ensure continuity of research, attract more young scientists through robust grant opportunities, and bring new treatments to millions of Americans who need it most. 04.29.15 American Cures Act Bill Text # # #
04.28.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Recognized as National Park Champion April 28th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) was given the National Park Heritage Award today from the nonpartisan National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA). This award commemorates Eshoo’s support of the major public lands bills included in the Fiscal Year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act, which created the largest expansion of the National Park System in nearly three decades. “It’s an honor to recognize Congresswoman Anna Eshoo for championing this historic diversification and expansion of our National Park System,” said NPCA President and CEO Clark Bunting. “As the National Park System readies for its 100th anniversary, we’re so proud of people like Congresswoman Eshoo, who work with colleagues across the aisle and across the country to protect and enhance America’s ‘best idea.’” Said Eshoo, “Conservation of our nation’s public lands is a critical and worthy cause that I’m grateful to have an active role in. From preserving California coastal and ocean resources, to ensuring that our endangered species are protected, I’ve always fought for the conservation of our nation’s natural resources. I’m deeply honored to receive the National Park Heritage Award, and I will continue to support and defend the integrity of the National Park System.” The National Defense Authorization Act created seven new national park sites, expanded nine existing sites, and extended funding authorization for 15 heritage areas. Congress also authorized eight formal resource studies to determine whether other sites would be appropriate for future inclusion in the National Park System. Information about the major bills included in the public lands package can be found here. Eshoo is also a sponsor of legislation (H.R. 908) to designate the federally-owned land known locally as the Coast Dairies property as a new unit of the California Coastal National Monument. Coast Dairies is a 5,800-acre ranch near Davenport, eight miles north of the City of Santa Cruz. The picturesque land stretches from Highway 1 into the Santa Cruz Mountains, and is home to six watersheds, several endangered species, rolling coastal terraces, and 500 acres of redwood forest. After the Dairy folded in the 1950’s, private development of luxury homes and a nuclear power plant were proposed. The Ranch was acquired by the Save the Redwoods League with funding from the Packard Foundation in 1998, and donated to the U.S. Bureau of Land Management (BLM) in 2014. # # #
04.23.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Blackburn Renew Effort to Protect Musicians’ Creative Content April 23rd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and House Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) today reintroduced the Protecting the Rights of Musicians Act. This bipartisan legislation would condition the ability of broadcasters to opt for retransmission consent payments on whether radio stations they own pay performers for their music. Further, a provision that would prohibit the Federal Communications Commission from imposing radio chip mandates for mobile devices has been added to the bill. Blackburn and Eshoo first introduced this legislation during the 113th Congress. “Broadcasters receive billions of dollars annually when their local broadcast television programming is aired by cable and satellite operators, yet when it comes to the music played on their AM/FM radio stations, they refuse to compensate the creator of the music. This double standard is patently unfair,” said Eshoo. “The Protecting the Rights of Musicians Act ensures that television broadcasters who opt for retransmission consent fees must also pay artists when their music is played on AM/FM stations, just as they are on Internet and satellite radio. And as more consumers use Internet radio, the bill ensures consumers aren’t locked into outdated technology mandates and can choose how they access local news and music on their mobile device.” “Broadcasters have repeatedly told us that retransmission consent payments are fair because cable and satellite stations make millions by retransmitting local broadcast content. However, when it comes to music, the same broadcasters, many who own both TV and radio stations, sing a completely different tune,” Blackburn said. “Our legislation seeks to modernize outdated law and put an end to a loophole that allows AM/FM radio to avoid paying musicians for their creative work. “Internet radio pays music creators fair market value for their performances, Satellite radio pays music creators for performances, Cable and Satellite TV/radio stations pay music creators for their performances. Everyone but AM/FM radio pays. Moreover, we have included language to prevent the FCC from extending this injustice through a potential federally imposed chip mandate for mobile devices. This is a basic issue of fairness that must be addressed and I look forward to working with Congresswoman Eshoo and moving this legislation forward.” # # #
04.23.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on 100th Anniversary of Armenian Genocide April 23rd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following video statement on the 100th anniversary of the Armenian Genocide, which is commemorated on April 24, 2015. Eshoo is a member of the Presidential Delegation to the Republic of Armenia to attend centennial commemoration events. Background The only Armenian-Assyrian Member of Congress and the daughter of immigrants who fled anti-Christian violence in the Middle East, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) is a champion for human rights and religious freedom in Congress. She is a founding member and co-chair of the Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East and has brought much-needed attention to the plight of religious minorities worldwide. Responding to the urgent needs of Christians and other religious minorities who are under siege in the Middle East and who deserve a designated high-level U.S. official to advocate on their behalf, Eshoo authored a new law in the 113th Congress to create a Special Envoy at the U.S. Department of State for Religious Minorities. She has also cosponsored the Armenian Genocide Resolution to have formal recognition by the government of the United States in every Congress she has served. # # #
03.26.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Bipartisan Health Bill to Improve Care for Seniors, Children and Low-Income Americans March 26th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after voting in favor of the Medicare and CHIP Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2), bipartisan legislation to permanently fix the broken system by which doctors are reimbursed for treating Medicare patients. The legislation also reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for two years and provides $7.2 billion in funding for community health centers. The House passed the bill today by a vote of 392 to 37. “Today, a remarkable majority of House Members coalesced around bipartisan legislation to improve health care for seniors, children and low-income Americans,” said Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee which oversaw portions of the compromise legislation. “This legislation delivers in a big way,” Eshoo continued. “It changes the way doctors are compensated for treating Medicare patients, with a focus on quality of care rather than quantity. It ensures millions of children nationwide will continue to be insured under CHIP, and it makes a substantial investment in our nation’s valuable community health centers.” “Medicare, CHIP and community health centers are the pillars of a healthy America. Today, we fortified these pillars for the millions of Americans who rely on them and for generations to come,” Eshoo concluded. Medicare The Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) is the payment system created in 1997 to compensate doctors who treat Medicare patients. It was derived from concerns that the Medicare fee schedule would not adequately constrain overall increases in spending for physician fee services. In the first few years of the SGR system, the actual expenditures did not exceed the targets and the updates to the physician fee schedule were close to the Medicare economic index. But beginning in 2002, the actual expenditure exceeded allowed targets, and the discrepancy has grown with each passing year. Congress began passing a “band-aid” fix in order to avoid a reduction in payments to doctors. The last fix by Congress expires April 1st. H.R. 2 repeals the flawed SGR formula and replaces it with a bicameral, bipartisan plan to move Medicare toward improved value and stability for physician payments. While the cost of permanently fixing the flawed payment system costs $141 billion, one-third of that will come from “offsets,” or revenue increases from other areas. Changes for Some Medicare Beneficiaries Under current law, the vast majority of Medicare’s individual beneficiaries pay the standard premium which covers 25 percent of the Part B and Part D program costs. In 2015, the individual Part B standard monthly premium is $104.90; for Part D, the national average monthly premium is $33.13. Today, approximately 6 percent of beneficiaries pay higher premiums for Part B and Part D based on their incomes. Individual beneficiaries with incomes over $85,000, or $170,000 for a couple, currently pay between 35 to 80 percent for their Part B and Part D program costs, depending on their income. Beginning in 2018, the SGR agreement increases the share of program costs paid by beneficiaries who are already subject to income-related premiums. Individual beneficiaries with incomes between $133,501 to $160,000, or $267,001 to $320,000 for a couple, who currently pay 50 percent of their program costs, will pay 65 percent for both their Part B and Part D premiums. Individual beneficiaries with incomes over $160,000, or $320,000 for a couple, who currently pay 65 percent of their program costs, will now pay 80 percent of their Part B and Part D program costs. The legislation also limits first dollar coverage on certain Medigap plans by prohibiting plans from covering the Part B deductible. This change will apply only to future retirees beginning in 2020. CHIP H.R. 2 preserves and extends CHIP for two years. This program helps states insure low-income children who are ineligible for Medicaid, but cannot afford private insurance. Community Health Centers H.R. 2 provides $7.2 billion for community health centers through 2017. Community health centers are locally-controlled, non-profit entities that provide primary care, dental, behavioral health, and pharmacy services. These centers specialize in providing cost-effective and high-quality primary and preventive health care. Medicare Part B and D Income Changes as part of H.R. 2 Section-by-Section of H.R. 2 # # #
03.26.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails New SEC Rules to Promote Capital Formation and Create Jobs March 26th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, welcomed the unanimous adoption by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of final rules to raise the offering limit under Regulation A. Regulation A was enacted under President Franklin D. Roosevelt to facilitate the flow of capital into small businesses by providing an exemption from the registration requirements normally applicable when a company seeks to raise capital by selling its securities to the public. “After five long years, I welcome the final implementation by the SEC of new Regulation A limits. This adds a few more cylinders to our nation’s economic engine,” said Eshoo, who testified before the Financial Services Committee in 2010, urging a change to the outdated Regulation A limits. “By increasing the dollar limit on securities offerings from $5 million to $50 million, we’re helping small issuers gain access to funding without the costs and delays associated with the full-scale securities regulation process. Greater capital formation is essential for job creation and will be realized through this revitalization of the SEC’s Regulation A.” Eshoo authored the legislation which passed Congress in 2012 and was signed into law as part of the JOBS Act. It required the SEC to raise the threshold for certain Regulation A offerings from $5 million to $50 million, providing small companies a lower-cost means to raise public capital and create jobs. The previous limit, stuck at $5 million since 1992, left Regulation A scarcely used because a $5 million offering had a price tag of $1 to $2 million in underwriting expenses. # # #
03.18.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Shimkus, Doyle Reintroduce Bipartisan Bill to Promote Greater Collaboration Among FCC Commissioners March 18th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, along with Reps. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) and Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) announced today reintroduction of a bipartisan bill to allow for more collaborative and effective meetings at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The FCC Collaboration Act of 2015 (H.R. 1396) allows for a bipartisan majority of commissioners to meet for collaborative discussions so long as they disclose such meetings within two business days and comply with the Office of General Counsel. The House Members were joined by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Dean Heller (R-Nev.), who introduced companion legislation in the Senate. “The FCC has huge issues to tackle, representing some of the nation’s most pressing communications challenges, yet the current ‘Sunshine’ Rule restricts commissioners from collaborating freely and effectively,” said Eshoo. “Simple collaboration, discussion of issues, and shared expertise outside an official setting are essential in order for the Commission to keep up with the rapidly changing telecommunications landscape.” “Expecting the FCC to fulfill its mission without allowing the commissioners to have an open dialogue is a set up for disappointment and delay,” said Shimkus. “Allowing for greater interaction among the commissioners would enable the FCC to more efficiently carry out its responsibilities and more effectively consider the costs and benefits of proposed regulations.” Doyle added, “We all agree that it makes sense for members of the FCC to collaborate, provided the discussion is transparent to the public. This bill will help the FCC operate in a more efficient manner without sacrificing transparency. I am pleased to join my colleagues Representatives Shimkus and Eshoo and Senators Heller and Klobuchar in reintroducing the FCC Collaboration Act.” Background: Ever since the Government in Sunshine Act of 1997 passed, stakeholders have called on Congress to adopt measures that allow agency officials to conduct private meetings so long as there were safeguards in place. Under this bill, three or more Commissioners may meet in a closed door meeting with three members of a Federal-State Joint Board so long as the meeting is: Bipartisan; No official action is taken; No outside parties are present; and An attorney from the FCC’s Office of General Counsel is present to monitor the deliberations and disclose a summary of those discussions within two business days of such a meeting. The FCC Collaboration Act of 2015 modifies the “Sunshine” rule to promote collaboration between commissioners and streamline decision making. 03.18.15 FCC Collaboration Act of 2015 Bill Text # # #
03.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pitts Lead Multi-Faithed Coalition of Members to Reintroduce Bipartisan International Religious Freedom Legislation March 6th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Leading a bipartisan coalition of Members representing multiple faith groups, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Joe Pitts (R-Pa.) reintroduced today the Shahbaz Bhatti International Religious Freedom Act of 2015. First introduced at the end of the 113th Congress, the legislation makes amendments to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 to strengthen U.S. advocacy for freedom of religion or belief abroad. As the global landscape for religious freedom has changed dramatically over the past 15 years, so has the need to update the necessary tools to promote religious freedom. The amendments made to current law by the Shahbaz Bhatti International Religious Freedom Act will help ensure that the U.S. government is better equipped to address both challenges and opportunities. “The ongoing violence against religious minorities in the Middle East calls for the U.S. to recommit itself to one of its greatest exports—religious freedom,” Eshoo said. “Strengthening the International Religious Freedom Act to include non-state offenders of religious oppression, as well as bolstering the standing of religious freedom advisors within the Administration will better promote religious freedom as a high priority in U.S. foreign policy.” “I want to thank the members who have joined Congresswoman Eshoo and myself to stand for strengthen our government’s promotion of religious freedom,” said Pitts. “These are especially dark times for many around the world as religious tensions seem to be growing. America has long demonstrated that religious freedom is the way to bring lasting peace between faiths. Religious liberty is not just a right for Americans, but for all people.” Reps. Chris Smith (R-N.J.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), Matt Salmon (R-Ariz.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn,), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) and Gus Bilirakis (R-Fla.) cosponsor the bill with Eshoo and Pitts. The cosponsors of the bill represent a range of religious backgrounds: Catholic, Protestant, and Orthodox Christians, Buddhist, and Muslim. Background Non-state actors that violate the rights of religious minorities have proliferated across the globe in recent decades. Only a few years ago, Boko Haram lacked a Foreign Terrorist Organization designation by the Department of State but carried out brutal attacks on Nigeria’s Christian population while the U.S. government wrestled with ways to punish the organization. The Shahbaz Bhatti International Religious Freedom Act adds non-state actors to the group of bodies that the U.S. government could sanction for violations of religious freedom abroad. The legislation strengthens the standing of certain advisors within the executive branch responsible for advocating for international religious freedom, and amends U.S. foreign policy to ensure religious freedom is a central component. Shahbaz Bhatti was once Pakistan’s sole Christian minister and a tireless advocate for the rights of Pakistan’s religious minorities. He was assassinated in 2011 by Islamic militants after speaking out against the country’s anti-blasphemy laws. Following the assassination of Mr. Bhatti, President Obama said Bhatti had “most courageously challenged the blasphemy laws of Pakistan under which individuals have been prosecuted for speaking their minds or practicing their own faiths.” # # #
03.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Thompson Reintroduce Legislation to Make Health Insurance More Affordable for Families in High Cost Areas March 6th, 2015 Legislation helps middle class families access affordable health insurance no matter where they live WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5) reintroduced today the Fair Access to Health Care Act, legislation to expand the eligibility for premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “The Affordable Care Act is helping low to middle-income Americans buy private health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level,” Eshoo said. “While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families, there are others in high-cost areas, like those in my home district of Silicon Valley, who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does not account for the cost of living.” Eshoo continued, “The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal poverty level. In doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve our nation’s health.” “In many communities in our district the cost of living is far higher than the national average,” said Thompson. “A middle class income means different things in different parts of the country and that’s why the income thresholds set by the ACA need to take cost of living into account. With qualifying income levels set across-the-board, many hard working families in high-cost areas like ours don’t qualify for subsides and therefore can’t get affordable insurance. This bill will help make health insurance affordable, no matter where someone lives.” Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. At this level, an individual making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for premium tax credits. However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax credits doesn’t take into account the cost of living for different geographic areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as a family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas. The Fair Access to Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to be increased proportionally based on an area’s cost of living. Under the bill, the federal poverty level threshold will increase proportionally based on an area’s cost of living above the national average cost-of-living. The cost-of-living is determined using the Census Bureau’s Supplemental Poverty Measure (SPM). Based on available SPM data, using this calculation: In the San Francisco-Oakland-Freemont, California Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), a family of four earning up to $125,757 and individuals earning up to $61,356 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. In the Vallejo-Fairfield, CA MSA, a family of four earning up to $109,743 and an individual earning up to $53,543 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. In the Napa, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals earning up to$56,990 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. In the Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $113,746 and individuals earning up to $55,496 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. Precedent already exists in the ACA for such cost-of-living adjustments. The ACA accounts for the cost-of-living differences in Alaska and Hawaii by using a higher income threshold to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to Health Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states. Individuals and families from low-cost geographical areas will not be impacted by this legislation. Those earning up to 400 percent of the FPL would still be eligible for subsides and no region would see a reduction from their current subsidy level. # # #
03.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on First FDA Approval of Biosimilar Medicine March 6th, 2015 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement today on the announcement by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of its first-ever approval of biosimilar medicine: “Today is a huge step forward for patient access to lifesaving biologic medicines. Seven years ago, I authored legislation with Senator Edward Kennedy to create a pathway for the approval of generic versions of biologics, known as ‘biosimilars.’ Some of the most exciting developments in medical science are occurring in the field of biotechnology and hold the potential to provide cures for cancer, AIDS, and diabetes and prevent the onset of deadly and debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer’s, heart disease, Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis and arthritis. “While we await additional guidance from the agency on how they’ll approve future biosimilars, critical strides have been made today toward improving patient access to lifesaving treatments—a true testament to Senator Kennedy’s legacy.” # # #
03.04.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Kinzinger Reintroduce Bipartisan Data Center Efficiency Bill March 4th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Congressman Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, reintroduced today bipartisan legislation to save taxpayer money and energy by increasing energy efficiency in federal data centers. Their bill, the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act, passed the House in the 113th Congress by a vote of 375 to 36. “Today the world generates more data in 12 hours than was generated in all of human history prior to 2003. When this bill passed the House last year, that statistic was for every two days,” said Eshoo, who is also a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Ten exabytes of data per day travel our global networks and this rate is growing rapidly. This data must be stored and processed at vast data centers which can be highly energy inefficient, wasting money and precious energy resources. The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act will save the federal government energy and money by requiring the use of energy efficient and energy saving technologies, specifically in federal data centers.” “The federal government depends on a vast array of over 2,000 data centers housing energy-consuming servers,” Kinzinger said. “These data centers support everyday operations from electronic communications to data storage, consuming an estimated 2 percent of all electricity in the United States. The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act will deliver savings to the American tax-payers who are footing these energy bills by increasing energy efficiency, reducing overall energy consumption, and eliminating e-waste in these data centers.” Three additional members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Reps. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), David McKinley (R-W.Va.), and Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.), joined Eshoo and Kinzinger in reintroducing this bipartisan legislation. Background As the nation’s largest landowner, employer, and energy user, this data center legislation would make the federal government a leader in improving the energy efficiency of its data centers. Federal data centers make up 10 percent of all U.S. data center energy use, which translates to an estimated $600 million in energy costs in 2010 alone, the last year when data was available. The Department of Energy estimates that implementation of best practices alone could reduce the government’s data center energy bill by 20 to 40 percent. And when new efficient technologies are employed, many small data centers could slash their energy use by up to 90 percent. The rising importance of data centers in the everyday lives of Americans often goes unnoticed, but data centers now consume an estimated 2 percent of all electricity in the United States. Over the last decade, data center energy use has quadrupled and will continue to grow as we become increasingly tied to the digital world. Specifically, the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act would: Require federal agencies to develop plans to purchase and use more energy efficient technologies, and submit to periodic evaluation of their data centers for energy efficiency. Require an update to a 2007 Report to Congress that has formed the baseline for data center energy efficiency since its release, but is very much in need of an update. Create an Open Data Initiative for the purpose of making federal data center energy usage information available in a way that empowers further data center innovation, while protecting national security interests. This legislation will not increase government spending. Instead, it has the potential to save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars in reduced energy costs in the future, while setting an example for the private sector to reduce energy usage at data centers. The Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) found that widespread adoption of energy efficient information technologies could save the federal government over $5 billion in energy costs through 2020. Energy Efficient Government Technology Act (as introduced) # # #
03.03.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches 2015 Congressional Art Competition in California’s 18th District March 3rd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today the 2015 Congressional Art Competition for California’s 18th Congressional district. The competition has attracted and celebrated the talent of more than 650,000 high school students nationwide since 1982. “For 30 years, the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged artistic talent among our youth,” Eshoo said. “I’m proud to keep this tradition flourishing by launching the 2015 competition in California’s 18th Congressional District, and I encourage students to participate.” About the Competition All high school students from throughout the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate and exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students can participate by submitting their works of art to Congresswoman Eshoo’s Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by 5 p.m. PST on Thursday, April 23rd. A local reception will be held to announce the winner and honor all participants. The winning artist whose work is chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists has the distinction of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of the U.S. Capitol for one year. He or she will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with other talented young artists at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website. # # #
03.03.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on House Passage of Homeland Security Funding Bill March 3rd, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after the House passed legislation today by a bipartisan vote of 257 to 167 to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) through the end of this fiscal year: “Once again, Leader Pelosi has led the House out of a dire situation by providing the Democratic votes necessary to avert a dangerous partial shutdown of the Department of Homeland Security. The agency will be fully funded through the remainder of the fiscal year, and the American people can be assured that key national security operations will not be interrupted.” The President is expected to sign this bill, which had already passed the Senate. # # #
02.26.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds FCC Vote in Favor of Net Neutrality Rules February 26th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following a vote today by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in favor of net neutrality rules proposed by Chairman Tom Wheeler, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) issued the following statement: “Millions of American consumers, entrepreneurs, innovators, and others who rely on a free and open Internet asked for effective, enforceable net neutrality protections and they received them today. The FCC’s vote ensures Internet users will have the strongest possible protections against blocking, throttling and discrimination of online content by their wired and wireless broadband providers. “The rules are grounded in the strongest possible legal footing by reclassifying broadband under Title II of the Communications Act, the same basic consumer protections used for telephone service. “Yelp gave these net neutrality rules ‘five stars.’ I give the action taken by the FCC today a perfect 10! This is an epic battle between David and Goliath, and David won this round.” Eshoo issued a concurrent statement on another action favorably voted on by the FCC today to override state laws that prevent localities from deploying municipal broadband networks: “The ability of local communities to choose to invest in municipal broadband networks for their constituents promotes competition in the broadband marketplace. Today the FCC voted in favor of bolstering 21st century broadband infrastructure in our local communities, rural areas and tribal lands. Communities deserve to be able to choose to be competitive in the digital economy and this action gives them an edge.” # # #
02.25.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lance Reintroduce Bill Exempting FDA User Fees from Sequestration February 25th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—A bipartisan duo of House Members reintroduced today the FDA Safety Over Sequestration Act, or FDA SOS Act, which exempts Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fees from sequestration. FDA user fees are 100 percent industry-financed and are used specifically for the approval of safe and effective drugs and devices. In the event of another sequester like the budget sequestration of 2013, the FDA could lose tens of millions of dollars, preventing it from meeting its Congressionally-mandated responsibilities and leaving patients without lifesaving therapies. The authors of the bill, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Leonard Lance (R-N.J.), have concerns that a repeat of the 2013 sequester could reduce not only the FDA’s budget from Congress, but also reduce industry-financed user fees to the agency. While manufacturers were paying the full cost of the user fees (as mandated by statute), a significant portion of those funds were not distributed to the agency. After formal requests to Congressional appropriators from Eshoo and Lance, the funds were ultimately restored to the agency, but not without detrimental short and long-term effects. Another sequester could have compounding and devastating effects on patient safety. “The FDA’s user fees are 100 percent private sector dollars,” said Eshoo, who serves as a senior member on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “If the intent of sequestration is to limit public spending, withholding private monies is counterintuitive. Whether one agrees or disagrees with sequestration, private dollars should not be held hostage by the policy. It discourages investment in medical innovation and denies patients access to timely and potentially lifesaving therapies.” “Passage of this important bipartisan legislation is vital to protecting the FDA’s access to industry user fees. These resources will help ensure that millions of Americans will continue to benefit from medicines and medical devices that are safe and effective,” said Lance, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health. “Too many life-saving innovations and therapies are needlessly compromised by the short-sighted decision to sequester these funds.” Background The FDA SOS Act is supported by PhRMA, AdvaMed, the Medical Device Manufacturers Association, California Healthcare Institute, Leukemia Lymphoma Society, Gilead, Genentech, Patient Services Inc., and the National Health Council. FDA user fees are designed to supplement Congressional appropriations and help to expedite the approval process for new medical therapies. An efficient FDA encourages innovation, promotes economic growth, and improved the outcomes of patients. Pharmaceutical user fees were first introduced in 1992, in response to dangerously slow approval times for new drugs. After witnessing the success of drug user fees, Rep. Eshoo wrote legislation to create medical device user fees which have been in effect since 2002. These user fees have come to represent a vital collaboration between the FDA and industry. Just last year, Congress passed legislation to renew and increase FDA user fees in return for a strengthened and improved review process. # # #
02.19.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Markey Urge FCC to Ensure Spectrum Auction Rules Promote Competition and Access February 19th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee, are urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to continue its evaluation of spectrum auction rules to ensure robust competition and access to spectrum in the wireless marketplace. “Following the recent successful completion of the AWS-3 spectrum auction, we are writing to express our support for competition in the wireless marketplace and promotion of access to spectrum by companies of all sizes,” the Members wrote in a letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler. According to the FCC, the AWS-3 auction raised nearly $45 billion. The auction proceeds fund FirstNet, the first nationwide interoperable public safety communications network; upgrades to our 9-1-1 system; and more than $20 billion in deficit reduction. “While this is no doubt a critical measure of a successful spectrum auction, it should not be the only metric for determining use of this scarce public resource,” Eshoo and Markey continued. The Members noted that 73 percent of highly desirable spectrum below 1 GHz is held by the nation’s two largest wireless carriers. Eshoo and Markey concluded: “[T]he Commission should continue to evaluate its auction rules to ensure they are sufficient to prevent excessive concentration of spectrum among the nation’s largest wireless providers. Such a reassessment can and should be completed without delaying the start of the auction in early 2016.” The full text of the letter follows: February 19, 2015 The Honorable Tom Wheeler, Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 Twelfth Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler: Following the recent successful completion of the AWS-3 spectrum auction, we are writing to express our support for competition in the wireless marketplace and promotion of access to spectrum by companies of all sizes. We congratulate you on the nearly $45 billion raised by the AWS-3 auction. While this is no doubt a critical measure of a successful spectrum auction, it should not be the only metric for determining use of this scarce public resource. As you stated in your June 30, 2014, letter to Members of Congress, “…access to a sufficient amount of low-band spectrum is a threshold requirement for extending service and improving competition in both rural and urban areas.” Similarly, the Department of Justice wisely concluded in 2013 that FCC rules should ensure “smaller nationwide networks, which currently lack substantial low-frequency spectrum, have an opportunity to acquire such spectrum.” The DOJ went on to state that such rules can “improve the competitive dynamic among nationwide carriers and benefit consumers.” Today, approximately 73 percent of the highly desirable spectrum below 1 GHz is held by AT&T and Verizon. Wireless providers who lack this low-band spectrum face varying network obstacles, including difficulty penetrating walls and signals that fail to travel longer distances. As you know, the upcoming incentive auction represents a unique opportunity to free up additional low-band spectrum for wireless broadband. Recognizing the dangers of spectrum concentration, we worked hard to ensure the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 allowed the FCC to meet its statutory obligation to ensure competition in the wireless marketplace and avoid an excessive concentration of licenses through auction-specific rules. Consistent with the objective of Congress, we applaud you for recognizing the need to include a “reserved” block of spectrum as part of the incentive auction. While this is an important mechanism for achieving greater competition, the Commission should continue to evaluate its auction rules to ensure they are sufficient to prevent excessive concentration of spectrum among the nation’s largest wireless providers. Such a reassessment can and should be completed without delaying the start of the auction in early 2016. A healthy and vibrant wireless marketplace will promote competition, enhance consumer choice and drive innovation. We thank you for your commitment to freeing up additional spectrum for wireless broadband and ensuring the timely implementation of the world’s first-ever voluntary incentive auction. Sincerely, Anna G. Eshoo Edward J. Markey Member of Congress United States Senator cc: The Honorable Mignon Clyburn, Commissioner The Honorable Jessica Rosenworcel, Commissioner The Honorable Ajit Pai, Commissioner The Honorable Michael O’Rielly, Commissioner # # #
02.12.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Boxer, Feinstein, Colleagues Introduce Bill to Protect Children in Head Start Programs from Preventable Diseases February 12th, 2015 Legislation Would Ensure That Children in Head Start and Early Head Start Programs Are Fully Vaccinated WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo joined with U.S. Senators Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein (all D-Calif.) along with other colleagues today to introduce the Head Start on Vaccinations Act, legislation that would protect children from preventable diseases by ensuring that all children in Head Start and Early Head Start programs nationwide are fully vaccinated unless they have been exempted for medical reasons. “Vaccinating children against deadly diseases, such as measles, is essential. Children, their families, schools and public places are safer and healthier because of them,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “The Head Start on Vaccinations Act requires the approximately one million children in our country who are enrolled in Head Start programs to be vaccinated unless they have a medical exemption. This is a ‘booster shot’ for our nation’s vaccine policies.” “We must protect the more than one million children who attend Head Start programs nationwide from preventable diseases like measles,” Senator Boxer said. “This legislation is an important first step in the broader effort to strengthen our vaccination policies at all levels of government to help prevent the spread of deadly diseases.” “The recent outbreaks of whooping cough and measles in California serve as a stark reminder that vaccination is a matter of public health, not personal choice,” said Senator Feinstein. “Our goal must be to vaccinate as many children as possible against infectious diseases. That’s the only way to protect children who can’t be vaccinated for medical reasons and the best way to prevent the spread of deadly diseases like measles. Ensuring that all children in Head Start programs are vaccinated is an important step toward that goal.” The new legislation would require all children who enroll in Head Start and Early Head Start programs nationwide to be fully vaccinated. Under the bill, parents of currently enrolled children in Head Start programs would be given three months to ensure that vaccines are up-to-date in accordance with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s recommended schedule. Parents of newly enrolled children would have to submit up-to-date information on vaccinations or consent to allowing Head Start to assist them in getting their child vaccinated quickly. Parents could receive a medical exemption only if a qualified health care provider determines that their child has an underlying medical condition that would prevent them from being vaccinated, such as an autoimmune deficiency, chemotherapy treatment or a recent transplant. Under the bill, Head Start programs would assist families in accessing the services they need in order to get their children fully vaccinated. Head Start has long been a leader in connecting families to health services by providing care on site or referring families to local partners to get free or affordable care. The House legislation is cosponsored by Representatives Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Jackie Speier (D-Calif.), Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.), Diana DeGette (D-Colo.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Mike Honda (D-Calif.) and Jared Huffman (D-Calif.). Groups supporting the bill include the American Public Health Association, the California Medical Association, the National Association of County and City Health Officials, Trust for America’s Health and the Public Health Institute. # # #
02.12.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Designate Coast Dairies Ranch as a National Monument February 12th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) introduced legislation (H.R. 908) today to designate Santa Cruz County’s Coast Dairies property as the Santa Cruz Redwoods National Monument, permanently protecting all 5,800 acres of this pristine coastal land. The land, eight miles north of the City of Santa Cruz, sits just off of the scenic Pacific Coast Highway, where the redwood-topped Santa Cruz Mountains meet the ocean. The land is home to six watersheds, several endangered species, 500 acres of redwood forest, and rolling coastal terraces that provide picturesque views of the coast. The Coast Dairies property is named for the Coast Dairies and Land Company, a former dairy that operated on the land until the 1950s. After the dairy folded, private development of luxury homes, and a nuclear power plant were proposed. After decades of such pressures, the Coast Dairies ranch was acquired in 1998 by the Save the Redwoods League with funding from several local organizations and foundations, including the David and Lucille Packard Foundation. On April 14, 2014, the property was officially donated to the Bureau of Land Management (BLM). “This land is rich with natural resources and majestic features,” Eshoo said. “Since the 1960s our region’s environmental leaders and conservationists have been successful in protecting the Coast Dairies from development in order to preserve the land for future generations. In this spirit, I introduced legislation today designating the Coast Dairies as the Santa Cruz Redwoods National Monument. The bill will give this diverse natural landscape the permanent recognition and protection it deserves, and it will ensure that future generations will be able to learn from its history and enjoy its beauty.” Background The legislation would expand the California Coastal National Monument, 1,100 miles of protected California coastline established by President Clinton in 2000, to include the Coast Dairies property and ensure its permanent protection. The bill would prevent commercial logging and mining on the land and would require BLM to develop a management plan in consultation with the local community that allows safe public access to the property. National monuments can be designated by Congress under Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution, or by Presidential Proclamation under the Antiquities Act of 1906. Since 1906, presidents and Congress have created more than 100 national monuments. For example, on April 20, 2012, President Obama designated the nearly 15,000 acre Fort Ord National Monument in Monterey County, to preserve in perpetuity the recreational, scientific, and historical qualities of the former military training ground. # # #
02.11.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Seeks Action on ‘Do Not Call’ Violations February 11th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, is calling on Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairwoman Edith Ramirez to recommit to a crackdown on “Do Not Call” violations. “Last year the FTC received 493,508 consumer complaints from California phone numbers alone, representing 15 percent of complaints received nationwide. Among the area codes serving my Congressional District (650, 408, 831), the FTC received 53,308 complaints in FY2014. It’s clear that the Do Not Call registry is not working as it was intended,” Eshoo wrote in a letter to Chairwoman Ramirez sent yesterday. Nationally, the FTC received 3.2 million complaints in FY2014, according to the Commission. Eshoo continued, “[W]hile I recognize as a law enforcement agency that you are unable to comment on pending enforcement actions, consumers should be informed when their complaint ultimately results in action being taken by the FTC.” Eshoo has invited Chairwoman Ramirez to her Silicon Valley congressional district for a “summit and discussion of new technological solutions to this complex and growing problem.” The Do Not Call registry was opened in 2003 in accordance with the Do Not Call Implementation Act. Telemarketers covered by the registry have up to 31 days from the date a number is registered to cease calling that number. Consumers need only register their phone number once to permanently remain on the registry. The full text of Eshoo’s letter follows: February 10, 2015 The Honorable Edith Ramirez, Chairwoman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20580 Dear Chairwoman Ramirez, Nearly every day I hear from constituents who are frustrated by the constant interruption of telemarketers. Despite more than 100 enforcement actions taken against companies and telemarketers for ‘Do Not Call’ violations by the FTC’s own admission, the number of consumer complaints for unsolicited telephone calls has doubled since 2010. Last year, the FTC received 493,508 consumer complaints from California phone numbers, representing 15 percent of complaints received nationwide. Among the area codes serving my Congressional District (650, 408, 831), the FTC received 53,308 complaints in FY2014. It’s clear that the Do Not Call registry is not working as it was intended. Advances in technology, including voice over Internet protocol (VoIP), caller ID spoofing, and automated dialing have no doubt made it easier for companies to disregard the registry. Recognizing these challenges, I commend the FTC for taking a series of steps including hosting a 2012 summit, a “Robocall Challenge” and most recently the “Zapping Rachel” contest at DEF CON 22. Given continued advances in technology, I invite you to Silicon Valley for a follow-up summit and discussion of new technological solutions to this complex and growing problem. Further, as part of the FTC’s consumer outreach efforts, it’s important to continuously update and educate consumers on what the agency is doing to stop illegal robocalls. Proactive education should include an annual e-mail outreach to consumers registered for the Do Not Call registry, rather than assuming that consumers will find the FTC’s website on their own. Additionally, while I recognize as a law enforcement agency you are unable to comment on pending enforcement actions, consumers should be informed when their complaint ultimately results in action being taken by the FTC. In 2013, on the 10th anniversary of the National Do Not Call registry, the FTC committed to an “iron-clad guarantee” to take action against companies that violate the agencies rules. Two years later, it’s critical that the FTC maintain this commitment and do everything in its power to protect consumers against unsolicited robocalls. Thank you for your leadership to protect consumers and I look forward to your timely response. Most gratefully, Anna G. Eshoo Member of Congress # # #
02.10.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Others Re-Introduce Bipartisan, Bicameral Wi-Fi Innovation Act February 10th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, along with Reps. Bob Latta (R-Ohio), Vice Chairman of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) and Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), today re-introduced the Wi-Fi Innovation Act, bipartisan, bicameral legislation that addresses growing spectrum demand by examining ways to improve spectrum efficiency and maximize its use. “Spectrum is a driver of economic opportunity in our country, serving as the invisible backbone of our digital age and turning our smart devices into connected tools for education, commerce and safety,” Eshoo said. “But we’ve only scratched the surface in optimizing this finite resource. To fully realize its potential, the bipartisan, bicameral Wi-Fi Innovation Act directs the FCC to study how spectrum can be shared and utilized in innovative ways. From offloading mobile data traffic onto Wi-Fi networks to using unlicensed spectrum as a digital sandbox for wireless R&D, the economic benefits are enormous and the technological discovery untold.” “As more and more technologies utilize Wi-Fi to connect to the Internet, the need for increased wireless spectrum grows,” Latta said. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act examines ways to maximize spectrum use by efficiently expanding the deployment of wireless networks and services, so everyone can benefit from next-generation technologies. Utilizing unlicensed spectrum remains a critical component of promoting economic development and increased connectivity across the country, and the Wi-Fi Innovation Act would help bridge the digital divide.” “From personal communication to transportation, healthcare and beyond, wireless technologies are changing and improving our lives,” Issa said. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act will make available the spectrum necessary to support the best new inventions and the jobs and prosperity these new discoveries will foster.” “Wi-Fi is already an integral part of our everyday lives; we must meet current demand and put in place a plan to meet growing needs,” Matsui said. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act will require the FCC to develop and adopt a testing process to evaluate the feasibility of sharing in the 5GHz band. It is my hope that the FCC will use this opportunity to bring in the automotive and technology engineers to produce hard data – without interference – that can be relied upon during decision-making on the future of the 5GHz band. It is our responsibility to ensure that the U.S. continues to be the center for technology and innovation, and spectrum will be necessary to achieve this.” “If we want the Internet to continue to thrive the FCC needs to keep up with the growing demand for wireless spectrum capacity,” DelBene said. “Our bill takes a step in the right direction while also helping to bridge the digital divide that some low-income and rural communities face because of unreliable access to wireless networks.” The Wi-Fi Innovation Act directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to conduct tests within the 5 GHz spectrum band to determine if spectrum can be shared without interfering with current users. The bill also acknowledges ongoing efforts related to the development of critical safety applications in vehicles and other intelligent transportation initiatives and creates a study to examine the barriers to Wi-Fi deployment in low-income areas. Similar legislation was also introduced today in the U.S. Senate by Senator Marco Rubio (R-Fla.) and Senator Cory Booker (D-N.J.). # # #
02.06.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo, Boxer Announce New Bill to Protect Children in Head Start Programs from Preventable Diseases February 6th, 2015 Legislation Would Require All Children in Head Start Programs to Receive Full Vaccinations WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo and U.S. Senator Barbara Boxer (both D-Calif.) today announced new legislation – titled “A Head Start on Vaccinations Act” – that would protect children in Head Start programs from preventable diseases by requiring that all children in Head Start programs nationwide be fully vaccinated unless they have been exempted for medical reasons. The legislation will be introduced next week. “It was the genius of American scientists that developed vaccines to eradicate polio and many other diseases,” said Congresswoman Eshoo. “This bill is a ‘booster shot’ for our nation’s vaccine policies and will mitigate the spread of deadly disease.” “More than a million of our children attend Head Start programs all over the country, and we must protect every single one of these kids from preventable diseases like measles,” Senator Boxer said. “This simple bill is an important step toward strengthening our vaccination policies at all levels of government to prevent the spread of deadly diseases.” The new legislation would require all children who enroll in Head Start and Early Head Start programs nationwide to be fully vaccinated. Under the bill, parents of children currently enrolled in Head Start programs would be given three months to ensure that vaccines are up to date in accordance with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s recommended schedule. Parents could receive a medical exemption only if a certified health care provider determines that their child has an underlying medical condition that would prevent them from being vaccinated, such as an autoimmune deficiency, chemotherapy treatment or a recent transplant. Under the bill, Head Start programs would assist families in accessing the services they need in order to get their children fully vaccinated. # # #
02.05.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Re-Introduces Bill to Mitigate Abusive Patent Litigation February 5th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, re-introduced bipartisan legislation today, the Innovation Act, to build on reforms that were made in the America Invents Act and address certain abusive practices by ‘patent trolls’ in U.S. courts. The Innovation Act passed the House in the 113th Congress by a bipartisan vote of 325 to 91, but failed to pass the Senate. “When our patent system is not working in a wholesome and robust way, competition, innovation, and consumerism are threatened,” Eshoo said. “When businesses aren’t bogged down with abusive patent litigation, they spend on average $211 million more on research and development than firms that have to redirect resources to protect their original ideas in court. The Innovation Act is the solution to the problem of abusive patent litigation, and I’m proud to have introduced this bipartisan bill with Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress.” Patent trolls are companies or individuals that typically do not invent or manufacture anything. They are merely in the business of litigation. Trolls own patents, often overly broad and vague, and cite infringement as a way of extorting money from dozens and sometimes hundreds of businesses both small and large. Rep. Eshoo was joined in introducing the bill by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), along with 17 other bipartisan original co-sponsors. In the 113th Congress, hundreds of organizations weighed in with their support of the Innovation Act. From some of Silicon Valley’s most successful companies like Google and HP to small businesses, retailers, and hotel and lodging organizations the message was clear: action to combat patent trolls is sorely needed. Key Components of the Innovation Act: Target Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior, not specific entities, with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: The patent system is integral to U.S. competitiveness. This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation includes heightened pleading standards and transparency provisions, requiring parties to conduct due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit. It reduces litigation expenses and saves time and resources of the courts. Modernizes Fee Shifting: The legislation modernizes fee shifting so that it is fair, clear and will ensure consistent judicial determinations. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. # # #
02.04.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo: Proposed Net Neutrality Update a Triumph for American Consumers February 4th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement based on an op-ed in WIRED today by Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler in which he proposes enhanced net neutrality rules: “The proposed update to net neutrality rules is a triumph for the American consumer. The American people asked for the strongest possible rules to ensure a free and open Internet, and Chairman Wheeler has heard their voices by proposing to reclassify broadband under Title II of the Communications Act. “The American people asked for net neutrality rules to apply to both fixed and mobile broadband service and the updated rules again deliver. “The American people asked for and received bright-line rules to prevent throttling of Internet content, prohibit paid prioritization, and a ban on blocking. “Finally, the proposed update goes a step further to prevent broadband providers from discriminating against content providers at the point of network entry. “This is the architecture of our digital future. The Chairman’s proposal deserves the vote of the full Commission.” In October, Congresswoman Eshoo called on the FCC to adopt a robust, enforceable set of open Internet rules using a ‘light-touch’ Title II approach. # # #
01.28.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Re-Introduces Bill to Improve Care for Children with Medically Complex Conditions January 28th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Joined today by a bipartisan group of colleagues, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee which has jurisdiction over a wide range of federal health issues, re-introduced the ACE (Advancing Care for Exceptional) Kids Act of 2015. The legislation removes existing barriers in the Medicaid system to allow families to cross state lines so that their children with medically complex conditions can receive the specialty care from a children’s hospital that is best equipped to treat them. The legislation designates the children’s hospital “home” for a child, and integrates their local medical support team for routine and follow-up care. “Children with complicated medical conditions require a high level of health care which generates significant costs and often lacks proper coordination,” Eshoo said. “Two million children are insured by Medicaid with complicated conditions—six percent of all Medicaid children—and they account for 40 percent of Medicaid costs nationwide. The ACE Kids Act will alleviate state-by-state barriers for children with complex medical conditions and relieve families of the burden of navigating the coordination of care. Children will be able to see the appropriate care specialists, regardless of what state they live in.” Background Children with Complex Medical Conditions Children with complex medical conditions have multiple illnesses and disabilities. They often have to see six or more specialists and a dozen or more physicians, requiring care that often is not in their home state. Under the current system, parents of these children struggle to coordinate the complicated care of their children. Cost Savings The ACE Kids Act is expected to deliver savings to the Medicaid program through increased efficiencies, including reduced hospitalizations and emergency room visits. The legislation also provides an array of outpatient and community services needed by these children. The networks would transition from a “fee-for-service” payment model to a risk-based one. This new payment model would ensure optimal outcomes for the most vulnerable children, focusing on the long-term and comprehensive care of the child, not just the next procedure or treatment. Provisions in the bill call for long-range quality improvement and cost savings through data collection. Many rare conditions do not have enough patients in any given state to have the volume of data necessary to make research and quality improvement viable. The proposed networks enable gathering national-level data on rare, complex conditions to determine best practices and drive continued improvement in care. ACE Kids Act is Voluntary The provisions in the ACE Kids Act are voluntary for states, families, children’s hospitals and other providers to opt in. However, over 60 of the nation’s leading children’s hospitals, including Lucille-Packard Children’s Hospital which treats the majority of children with medical complexity in the 18th Congressional District, have joined together in support of this proposal. # # #
01.22.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against 55th Attempt by GOP to Undermine Affordable Care Act January 22nd, 2015 GOP Bill is Radical Assault on Women’s Health WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after voting against the 55th attempt by House Republicans to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act. In this case, Eshoo voted against a Republican bill that severely restricts how women and families with private insurance can spend private dollars in purchasing health insurance. “Under this deceptive bill, Republicans are fabricating economic conditions that will all but eliminate coverage of legal abortion services,” Eshoo said. “A small employer will be prohibited from using the small business tax credits created by the Affordable Care Act to provide private employee health coverage if the coverage includes abortion services, and families buying private insurance will not be eligible for a premium tax credit if they’ve enrolled in a health plan that covers abortion. The end result of this bill would be fewer Americans with comprehensive health coverage. This is a radical assault on family health and marks yet another attempt by Republicans to send a divisive bill to the President for a sure veto.” # # #
01.22.2015	+ SHARE On Fifth Anniversary of Citizens United, Eshoo Co-Introduces Constitutional Amendment to Rid Politics of Dark Money January 22nd, 2015 Democracy for All Amendment Would Overturn Citizens United and Related Decisions WASHINGTON, D.C.—Yesterday, on the five-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s 5-4 ruling in Citizens United v. FEC, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) co-introduced the Democracy for All Amendment. This proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution would reverse highly controversial Supreme Court decisions like Citizens United v. FEC and McCutcheon v. FEC, which have given corporations and America’s wealthiest donors a right to buy unlimited influence in our nation’s elections. Eshoo joined original co-sponsors of the bill Reps. Ted Deutch (D-Fla.), Donna F. Edwards (D-Md.), and Jim McGovern (D-Mass.). “The Supreme Court decisions in Citizens United and McCutcheon have cast a dark shadow over our democracy by bringing us dangerously closer to an electoral system where the voices of average Americans are easily drowned out by special interests, shadowy front groups, and a handful of billionaires,” said Eshoo. “At a time when Americans of every political persuasion want big money out of our elections, the Democracy for All Amendment will restore their authority to pass laws protecting the integrity of our electoral process. By reversing Citizens United and related cases, this amendment will advance the basic principle of ‘one voice-one vote’ that is integral to our democracy.” Background The Democracy for All Amendment would reverse Supreme Court decisions like Citizens United by enshrining in the Constitution the right of the American people to enact state and federal laws that regulate spending in public elections. The Democracy for All Amendment is the end result of extensive collaboration between the House and Senate sponsors of previously proposed constitutional amendments and several grassroots advocacy organizations committed to ridding politics of dark money, including Public Citizen, People for the American Way, Free Speech for People, and Common Cause. In addition to overturning recent rulings like Citizens United and McCutcheon, the Democracy for All Amendment also reverses the Supreme Court’s controversial holding in Buckley v. Valeo that money spent in elections is a form of speech protected by the First Amendment. In 2010, the Supreme Court’s highly controversial, 5-4 ruling in Citizens United v. FEC held that corporations and other private entities—including 501(C) organizations that do not have to disclose their donors—have a First Amendment right to spend unlimited sums of money influencing the outcome of public elections. In his far-reaching opinion for the 5-4 majority, Justice Kennedy held that any election law that goes beyond preventing quid pro quo, bribery-style corruption between candidates and donors risks violating the First Amendment. The result of the Citizens United decision has been elections dominated by record-breaking spending by Super PACs and unaccountable outside groups funded by corporations and a tiny, extraordinarily wealthy sliver of the American population. In 2012, the first presidential election cycle following the Citizens United decision, 93 percent of Super PAC funding came from 3,318 donors, amounting to less than .01 percent of the U.S. population. Likewise, the 2014 midterm election cycle was the most expensive in history, with record-shattering spending by outside groups emboldened by Citizens United. In 2014, the Supreme Court awarded America’s wealthiest donors even more influence in our elections with its 5-4 ruling in McCutcheon v. FEC, which struck down caps limiting how much money a single donor can contribute in federal elections, allowing one individual to give up to $3.6 million to candidates and various fundraising committees per federal election cycle. In addition, Chief Justice John Roberts’ opinion for the majority in McCutcheon went as far as to argue that the influence awarded to donors is not a corrupting quid pro quo transaction, but a First Amendment right. With elected officials spending more and more of their time raising millions of dollars to defend themselves from multimillion dollar smear campaigns from outside groups, it has become harder for everyday Americans living on a budget to be heard in the post-Citizens United era. In addition to concluding that donors receive greater access to legislators than non-donors, several academic studies have confirmed that elected officials’ growing reliance on large dollar donations have skewed the agenda in Washington toward special interests and away from the priorities of ordinary voters. The Democracy for All Amendment (H. J. Res. 22) Section I. To advance democratic self-government and political equality, and to protect the integrity of government and the electoral process, Congress and the States may regulate and set reasonable limits on the raising and spending of money by candidates and others to influence elections. Section II. Congress and the States shall have power to implement and enforce this article by appropriate legislation, and may distinguish between natural persons and corporations or other artificial entities created by law, including by prohibiting such entities from spending money to influence elections. Section III. Nothing in this article shall be construed to grant Congress or the States the power to abridge the freedom of the press. # # #
01.14.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against Republican Bill that Damages U.S. National Security January 14th, 2015 Bill Panders to Political Anti-Immigrant Interests WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) issued the following statement after voting against a Republican bill which defunds critical functions that protect U.S. borders and overall national security programs at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS): “With this bill, Republicans have placed our national security at risk to appease anti-immigrant extremists in Congress. This bill defunds critical functions that protect the American people in order to tear down the reforms to our immigration system in President Obama’s Executive Action last year. “The reforms in the Executive Action are improving our country’s buckling immigration system by helping an estimated 4 million undocumented parents remain with their children; expanding the pool of undocumented young people eligible to remain in the U.S.; issuing new enforcement policies that focus on individuals involved in criminal undertakings; and reforming our employment-based immigration system to invigorate economic growth. “A new report from the White House Council of Economic Advisers quantifies the immense economic impact of the President’s Executive Action. In California alone, the report estimates that the Executive Action will increase our state’s economic output by up to $27.5 billion over the next ten years and will raise average wages for U.S.-born workers by $170 a year. “As the eyes of the world are on Paris and their experience of the murderous rampage of terrorists, the last things to cut are national security provisions that protect the American people.” # # # —–
01.12.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces New Bipartisan Leadership of Religious Minorities Caucus January 12th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Co-Chair and co-founder of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, announced today that Congressman Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.) will serve as the new Co-Chair of the Caucus. Congressman Fortenberry succeeds Congressman Frank Wolf (R-Va.), who retired at the end of the 113th Congress. “Having worked with Congressman Fortenberry on religious minority issues, I deeply respect his knowledge and commitment,” Eshoo said. “He is a reliable ally and a staunch advocate for religious freedom. As the struggle for religious freedom persists in the Middle East, our utmost vigilance to promote democratic values and protection for persecuted innocents in the region is required. With Congressman Fortenberry as a partner, we can help create lasting change for religious minorities in the Middle East.” “Congresswoman Eshoo is devoted to the most fundamental of human ideals: the right of persons to practice their faith without fear of persecution,” Fortenberry said. “At this hour of their great need, the religious minorities of the Middle East need champions of her experience and dedication. I deeply respect Congresswoman Eshoo’s continued leadership on the grave challenges facing these vibrant communities, as well as her desire to protect vulnerable persons in the region.” He continued: “The stability and cultural identity of the Middle East depends in part on its mosaic of religious minorities. As Co-Chair of this Caucus, I will continue working so that these great faith traditions can flourish in their ancestral homelands. Congress, as well as the international community, must promote their cause—a cause that is essential to civilization itself.” Background on Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus The Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus was co-founded by Reps. Eshoo and Wolf in 2008. The Caucus is a Congressional Member organization that serves as an informational and advocacy entity for besieged religious minorities who are central to a pluralistic, multi-cultural Middle East. # # # —–
01.09.2015	+ SHARE Eshoo to Lead Democrats on Technology and Communications Subcommittee January 9th, 2015 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after being re-elected by her colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee to be the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology in the 114th Congress: “I’m grateful to my colleagues for their confidence in my work to once again lead the Democrats in the 114th Congress. “This committee is responsible for 20 percent of the U.S. economy, from protecting the dynamism of the free and open Internet, to strengthening political disclosure on our public airwaves, to ensuring consumers get a fair deal and ensuring competition across all sectors. The bipartisan opportunities are immense for America’s future.” # # #
12.18.2014	+ SHARE Markey, Eshoo, 36 Senate and House Democrats to FCC: Now is the Time to Act on Net Neutrality and Title II December 18th, 2014 Washington (December 18, 2014) – Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), along with 36 Senate and House Democrats, today called on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to use its authority immediately to prevent broadband providers from engaging in discriminatory practices and enshrine net neutrality by reclassifying broadband Internet access under Title II of the Communications Act. The lawmakers point out in the letter that it’s been nearly a year since the FCC’s net neutrality rules were invalidated by the D.C. Circuit Court and urge the Commission to act now to finalize new rules. “We believe the way to achieve a free and open Internet is to reclassify broadband as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act, with appropriate forbearance. As you know, President Obama recently joined us in urging this action,” write the lawmakers in the letter to FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler. “Everyone has spoken; now is the time for action. We urge you to act without delay to finalize rules that keep the Internet free and open for business.” In addition to Senator Markey and Congresswoman Eshoo, the letter is signed by Senators Al Franken, Ron Wyden, Richard Blumenthal, Tammy Baldwin, Cory Booker, Carl Levin, Bernie Sanders, Barbara Boxer, Ben Cardin, Elizabeth Warren, Jeff Merkley, and Representatives Henry Waxman, John Conyers, Raúl Grijalva, Keith Ellison, Zoe Lofgren, Michael Doyle, Barbara Lee, John Lewis, Michael Capuano, Chellie Pingree, Betty McCollum, Suzanne Bonamici, Tim Ryan, Mark Takano, Mike Honda, Earl Blumenauer, Jared Polis, Jared Huffman, Jim McGovern, Jan Schakowsky, Louise Slaughter, Niki Tsongas, Sam Farr, Peter DeFazio, and Eric Swalwell. In July, Senator Markey and 12 Senate Democrats called on the FCC to protect the openness and freedom of the Internet by reclassifying broadband Internet access as a service under Title II of the Telecommunications Act. In October, Congresswoman Eshoo called on the FCC to adopt a robust, enforceable set of open Internet rules using a ‘light-touch’ Title II approach. Text of the letter can be found below. December 18, 2014 The Honorable Tom Wheeler Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th St. SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler: The open Internet serves as the backbone of our economy and a critical artery for free speech. We must act now to protect the world’s most open platform for commerce and communications. Nearly a year has passed since the D.C. Circuit Court invalidated the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) previous net neutrality rules and found that the agency erred by constructing those rules on faulty legal grounds. Since then, we have heard from millions of constituents, companies and entrepreneurs about the need for the Commission to use its authority to prevent broadband providers from engaging in discriminatory practices. More than four million Americans have written to the FCC and have made their voices clear: no Internet fast and slow lanes. Many of us have previously written to you and urged the Commission to put the strongest possible rules on the books in order to ensure the health and vitality of the Internet for future generations. We called on the FCC to prohibit paid prioritization that would harm our economic growth by leaving start-ups and small businesses to suffer in Internet slow lanes. We believe the way to achieve a free and open Internet is to reclassify broadband as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act, with appropriate forbearance. As you know, President Obama recently joined us in urging this action. Everyone has spoken; now is the time for action. We urge you to act without delay to finalize rules that keep the Internet free and open for business. Thank you for your continued consideration and your work on this issue. ###
12.11.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Pitts Introduce International Religious Freedom Act of 2014 December 11th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Congressman Joe Pitts (R-Pa.) today introduced the Shahbaz Bhatti International Religious Freedom Act of 2014. The bill makes amendments to the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 to strengthen U.S. advocacy for freedom of religion or belief abroad. As the global landscape for religious freedom has changed dramatically over the past 15 years, so has the need to update the necessary tools to promote religious freedom. The amendments made to law by theShahbaz Bhatti International Religious Freedom Act will help ensure that the U.S. government is better equipped to address both challenges and opportunities. “The ongoing violence against religious minorities in the Middle East has demonstrated a desperate need for the U.S. to recommit itself to one of its greatest exports—religious freedom,” Eshoo said. “It’s time to update the International Religious Freedom Act to better promote religious freedom as a high priority in U.S. foreign policy.” “Religious Freedom has been a central pillar of American democracy since its inception,” said Pitts. “From the Mayflower to today’s present plight of religious minorities in the Middle East, our country has been a beacon of hope and freedom to the world. Just as America has a special place in the world for religious freedom, international religious freedom deserves a special place in our government’s foreign policy.” Background Non-state actors that violate the rights of religious minorities have proliferated across the globe in recent decades. Only a few years ago, Boko Haram lacked a Foreign Terrorist Organization designation by the Department of State, but carried out brutal attacks on Nigeria’s Christian population while our government wrestled with ways to punish the organization. The Shahbaz Bhatti International Religious Freedom Actadds non-state actors to the group of bodies that the United States government could sanction for violations of religious freedom abroad. The bill would strengthen the standing of certain advisors within the executive branch responsible for advocating for international religious freedom, as well as amend United States’ policy to ensure that religious freedom is a central component of U.S. foreign policy. Shahbaz Bhatti was once Pakistan’s sole Christian minister and a tireless advocate for the rights of Pakistan’s religious minorities. He was assassinated in 2011 by Islamic militants after speaking out against the country’s anti-blasphemy laws. Following the assassination of Mr. Bhatti, President Obama said Bhatti had “most courageously challenged the blasphemy laws of Pakistan under which individuals have been prosecuted for speaking their minds or practicing their own faiths.” # # #
12.11.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds E-Rate Modernization by FCC December 11th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, applauded the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for voting today to increase the funding cap for E-Rate by $1.5 billion, taking it to $3.9 billion. E-Rate is the country’s largest technology education program and provides broadband and other telecommunications services to schools and libraries. The increased funds are part of a plan the FCC approved in July. “The FCC took a monumental step today to bring E-Rate into the 21st century,” Eshoo said. “Funding for E-Rate was set during the days of dial-up Internet and in today’s digital world that level is simply inadequate. This boost will put into action a well-devised modernization plan to increase the presence of Wi-Fi in classrooms and bolster higher capacity Internet connections to our schools and libraries across the country. I applaud Chairman Wheeler for his leadership, and I salute Commissioner Rosenworcel, an early architect of E-Rate modernization who has visited schools nationwide to see firsthand how this program will benefit students. Her commitment to next-generation digital learning is unequaled at the Commission.” # # #
12.11.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on 129th Rescue Wing Selected as National Diversity Award Winner December 11th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement on the 129thRescue Wing being awarded the National Guard Bureau Excellence in Diversity Award. The 129th, based in Eshoo’s congressional district, was selected for the award because of its variety of diversity programs that contribute to a highly effective unit. “Whether you’re in business to make computer processors or in business to save lives, diversity among the ranks is a priceless asset,” Eshoo said. “The 129th Rescue Wing has demonstrated that a broad spectrum of diversity programs contribute to a top-notch rescue team that now boasts over 1,000 ‘saves.’ From 41 airmen certified as translators for the Defense Department to support for over 50 denominations to cultural awareness initiatives, the 129th Rescue Wing is a model of diversity and a reflection of our multicultural state. Bravo to the 129th airmen. The entire Wing has my gratitude as they continue their heroic duty and their service to our beloved country.” # # #
12.04.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse & Blumenthal Renew Push Against Misleading Practices by Outlet Stores December 4th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—With the holiday shopping season upon us, three Members of Congress are renewing their call for action against misleading marketing practices by outlet stores across the United States. In a letter sent today to Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairwoman Edith Ramirez, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) expressed their “continued concern regarding the use of deceptive reference pricing practices at both online and brick-and-mortar outlet stores. The Members first wrote to Ramirez in January, urging the agency to look into claims that merchants may be selling lower quality items produced specifically for outlet stores without properly informing consumers about the difference between those items and higher-quality products found in regular retail stores. Following the January letter, the FTC published this blog post providing tips to consumers. Today’s letter follows up on the Members’ initial request. “While we recognize that outlet and off-price stores can benefit consumers by providing access to lower-cost merchandise, they should not do so through deceptive pricing practices. The FTC is obligated to protect consumers by ensuring that retailers present truthful and accurate information regarding the merchandise they sell,” they wrote today. “With the holiday season upon us, and in light of recent lawsuits, we respectfully request an update of the work the FTC is doing to combat deceptive practices at outlet and off-price stores.” The full text of the letter is below. ——————————- December 04, 2014 The Honorable Edith Ramirez Chairwoman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20580 Dear Chairwoman Ramirez: As consumers begin their holiday shopping season, we write to express our continued concern regarding the use of deceptive reference pricing practices at both online and brick-and-mortar outlet stores. We first wrote to you about unfair practices at outlet stores on January 30, 2014. Since then, at least eleven class action lawsuits alleging deceptive pricing policies have been filed against seven different retailers. While we do not comment on the merits of the individual cases, we believe these allegations warrant the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) attention. At least one retailer has already been found guilty of fraudulent and misleading practices. In August, a California court, in the case of the People of California v. Overstock.com, ordered the online off-price retailer Overstock.com to pay $6.8 million in civil penalties for violating state consumer protection statutes regarding false advertising and unlawful business practices. The court concluded, “Overstock has consistently used [advertised reference prices] in a manner designed to overstate the amount of savings to be enjoyed by shopping on the Overstock site.” Currently, many retailers sell different lines of goods at retail mall stores and outlet mall stores. For a hypothetical example, a better known “Quality Clothes, Inc.” with stores in retail malls might have sister stores at outlet malls using the label “Quality Clothes Factory, Inc.” These similar names can obscure the fact that the vast majority of merchandise sold at most outlet stores was manufactured specifically for outlet sales. Customers are too often unaware that the merchandise for sale in outlet stores is of a lower quality than similar goods sold by affiliated retail store brands. To make matters worse, outlet stores commonly list “reference prices” on their price tags—numbers that suggests they are selling merchandise at a discount. Often a reference price is listed as a “retail price” even though the good was manufactured specifically for the outlet and was never sold at the purported “retail price.” By citing a “retail price” ungrounded in fact, outlet sellers may suggest they offer better deals than they do. We continue to believe that these practices may be a violation of the FTC’s Guides Against Deceptive Pricing (16 CFR 233). While we recognize that outlet and off-price stores can benefit consumers by providing access to lower-cost merchandise, they should not do so through deceptive pricing practices. The FTC is obligated to protect consumers by ensuring that retailers present truthful and accurate information regarding the merchandise they sell. With the holiday season upon us, and in light of recent lawsuits, we respectfully request an update of the work the FTC is doing to combat deceptive practices at outlet and off-price stores. Sincerely, Rep. Anna Eshoo Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse Sen. Richard Blumenthal # # #
12.02.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Findings of GAO Report on Broadband Data Caps December 2nd, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—At the request of Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO) today released a final report describing the use of data caps by the nation’s fixed and mobile broadband service providers. Eshoo requested the report of the GAO in May 2013 because of concerns that discriminatory or arbitrary applications of “usage-based” broadband pricing, often referred to as data caps, could discourage innovation, competition and consumer choice on the Internet. “Broadband access has proliferated into nearly every facet of our daily lives and our economy, yet we know little about the effects data caps are having on its growth and use by consumers,” Eshoo said. “The GAO report released today reveals growing use of data caps by fixed broadband service providers, consumer confusion over data usage, and a need for the FCC to monitor use of data caps as part of its responsibility to promote the public interest.” In July, Eshoo released preliminary findings of the GAO report, writing to the FCC, “In the midst of the net neutrality debate, there is a new threat to the free and open Internet and that is usage-based pricing which may include the throttling or slowing down of data speeds, overage fees and the exemption of some online services or applications from data caps.” Key findings of the GAO include: Under usage-based pricing, broadband access providers can charge varying prices, change connection speeds, or take other actions based on Internet data consumed. Seven of the nation’s 13 largest fixed broadband access providers now use usage-based pricing to some extent. Participants across all eight of the GAO’s focus groups expressed strong negative reactions to the concept of usage-based pricing by fixed broadband access providers. Some broadband provider estimates vary on data consumed for the same type of online content, confusing customers. Fixed broadband access providers facing limited competition could use usage-based pricing to increase profits, potentially resulting in negative effects, including increased prices, reductions in content accessed and increased threats to network security. Eshoo concluded, “I urge the nation’s fixed broadband providers to heed the recommendations of the GAO and proactively adopt a voluntary code of conduct just as mobile providers have done. This will improve consumer experience and ensure a more vibrant online marketplace. The FCC should also make better use of the data it is collecting on data caps to understand how best to inform consumers and promote the public interest.” # # #
11.21.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Executive Action of the President on Immigration November 21st, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement regarding the President’s executive actions to address the country’s immigration system: “Using his Constitutional authority, as has every president since Dwight Eisenhower, the President announced a series of executive actions to improve our country’s broken immigration system. I welcome his actions even though they are partial due to constraints of the law regarding executive action. “It is unfortunate that Speaker Boehner has refused to allow the bipartisan Senate immigration bill to the floor of the House. No executive action would have been needed if he had allowed the full House to express its will on a simple up or down vote. “While the President’s actions are not a substitute for what Congress has the authority to address, they provide sensible, lawful solutions to alleviate a buckling immigration system, including: Deferred Action for Parents – This action means that the administration will not pursue deportation of undocumented immigrant parents of children who are U.S. citizens or lawful permanent residents. This will positively impact an estimated 4 million parents who have been in the U.S. prior to January 1, 2010, keeping families united. Expansion of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals – This action expands the pool of young people who are eligible for deferred action, primarily by removing the age limit and permitting children under the age of 15 to apply. An estimated 270,000 more immigrants will benefit from this policy. New Guidance on Immigration Enforcement Priorities – Undocumented individuals involved in criminal undertakings will face heightened enforcement of the law. Undocumented immigrants who contribute to society and are otherwise law abiding will not be targets of deportation. Reforms to Employment-Based Immigration System – In my Silicon Valley district, the executive actions address many of the broken parts of the system: Allowing high-tech visa holders to change jobs while waiting in the green card backlog. Spouses of high-tech visa holders will be able to seek employment for the first time. The executive action creates new avenues for entrepreneurs to launch new companies and create jobs in the U.S. Approximately 200,000 immigrants will benefit from these measures. Under the law, the President cannot unilaterally raise the cap on high-tech work visas, and this must be pursued by Congressional action. “Five million people will be positively affected by the President’s executive actions and this, I believe, meets our Founding Fathers’ intent of creating a more perfect union for all who wish to be a part of it.” # # #
11.19.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Satellite TV Bill Compromise November 19th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, submitted the following statement for the record on the House floor regarding a compromise with the Senate Commerce Committee on the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2014: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 5728, the STELA Reauthorization Act of 2014. “Nearly four months ago, the House passed legislation to reauthorize the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010 (STELA). The language before the House today reflects a compromise reached with the leadership of the Senate Commerce Committee and paves the way for an extension of STELA prior to the expiration of the statute on December 31, 2014. “Like the bill passed by voice vote in July, H.R. 5728 reauthorizes STELA for a period of five years, ensuring that approximately 1.5 million satellite subscribers can continue accessing broadcast television signals. Reflecting my belief that our video laws are outdated and in some cases are even being abused, H.R. 5728 requires the FCC to re-examine its ‘good faith’ rules to ensure retransmission consent negotiations are conducted fairly and in a timely manner. “To better understand how retransmission consent fees impact a consumer’s monthly bill, H.R. 5728 requires the FCC to include aggregate data as part of its annual report on cable rates. This provision will bring about much needed transparency because retransmission consent fees are estimated to rise from $4.3 billion this year to an estimated whopping $5.1 billion in 2015. “H.R. 5728 also includes a provision I strongly supported during committee debate to ensure broadcasters cannot team up against pay-TV providers for leverage during retransmission consent negotiations. This is an important step toward rebalancing the playing field and ultimately protecting consumers from unacceptable blackouts and increased rates. “Finally, H.R. 5728 improves on language included in the bill adopted in July by delaying repeal of the cable set-top box ‘integration ban’ by one year and establishing a stakeholder working group tasked with developing a successor solution. Importantly, this provision does not negate a cable operator’s obligation to promote the competitive availability of set-top boxes under Section 629 of the Communications Act. While I continue to believe repeal of the ban should be conditioned on an industry-wide adoption of a successor to the CableCARD, this is a compromise I support. With an eye to the future, we can fulfill a goal I set out to achieve nearly 20 years ago and that is to give consumers an alternative to having to rent a set-top box from their local cable company every month. “For all these reasons, I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 5728.” # # #
11.17.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Bold Action on Immigration Reform November 17th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following reports that the White House anticipates announcing an Executive Order on immigration reform as early as this week, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) has expressed her support for bold action by the President in any executive action to overhaul our country’s immigration system. “It’s been over 16 months since the Senate passed bipartisan legislation to reform our country’s immigration system and strengthen our economy. Should Speaker Boehner wish to avoid an Executive Order, he can simply allow the bipartisan Senate bill to come to the floor of the House for a vote, which I’m confident would pass on a bipartisan basis,” Eshoo said. Eshoo co-signed a letter to the President last week with 116 House Democrats urging him to “take bold and meaningful executive action.” A copy of the letter can be found here. Eshoo concluded, “Like numerous presidents before him, broad authority exists under current law for President Obama to issue an Executive Order that offers work authorizations to critical agricultural and high-skilled immigrant workers and uses enforcement discretion to protect undocumented immigrants with strong ties to the U.S. from deportation, as he has already done for individuals who were brought to the U.S. as children. “It’s time we swing for the fences to provide a major boost to our economy, promote family unity, keep talent in our country, and focus enforcement on unlawful immigrants who pose a threat to society.” Background The legal authority for taking executive action is clear and substantial. Two years ago, the Supreme Court under Chief Justice John Roberts reaffirmed in the case Arizona v. United States that the Administration retains “broad discretion” to decide “whether it makes sense to pursue removal at all.” And executive action in this area is anything but unprecedented. In fact, every past President starting from President Dwight D. Eisenhower more than half a century ago has used such authority when dealing with similar issues regarding the national interest. In addition, an Executive Order on immigration reform could result in the following economic impacts: Beneficiaries of deferred deportation will have greater access to educational opportunities and better jobs, which means more taxable income and lower unemployment. It also encourages them to invest more in their own education, open bank accounts, buy homes, and start businesses. A recent report from the Center for American Progress found that offering work authorization to the estimated 4.7 million undocumented immigrants with a minor child in the U.S. could bring in an additional $21 billion in tax revenues over the next five years. The Department of Labor found that the wages of immigrants who benefited from the Immigration Reform and Control Act in 1986 under the Reagan Administration increased 15 percent over five years and that legalized immigrants moved on to significantly better jobs. Immigrants are twice more likely to start businesses than natives, and, among people with advanced degrees, immigrants are three times more likely to file patents than U.S.-born persons. Immigrants spend their wages in the U.S., which sustains the jobs of local workers and results in more jobs for more workers. Expanding Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals will likely reduce the drop-out rate for students, since most unauthorized youth are currently forced to work illegally in a cash economy. # # #
11.14.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against Keystone XL Pipeline November 14th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement after voting against legislation to approve construction of the Keystone XL pipeline by the Canadian company TransCanada. The project proposes to move tar sands oil, one of the dirtiest fuels on Earth, from Alberta to the Gulf Coast of Texas for export. The bill, which passed the House by a vote of 252 – 161, allows for construction of the pipeline to proceed by exempting the project from all federal permitting requirements, including environmental laws and requirements that apply to every other construction project in the country. “The economic benefits of the proposed Keystone XL pipeline are minimal and the risks are high,” Eshoo said. “For the ninth time, House Republicans have force fed Congress the idea that the Keystone XL pipeline will yield tens of thousands of jobs, secure a stable oil supply from a friendly neighbor, and prove to be an economic boon. For the ninth time, I voted against it because we know that the alarming details in the fine print of this proposal say otherwise.” Eshoo continued, “Keystone XL will create very few long-term jobs, will do nothing to lower gas prices at the pump or improve our energy independence, and it poses serious risks to our environment. Furthermore, this bill creates a special exemption for the Keystone XL pipeline, essentially trampling on our system of environmental laws, while shipping refined tar sands oil to the more lucrative international market. “Where is the net gain for the American people in construction of the Keystone XL pipeline? America needs reliable energy resources and job growth, but a proposal like this hardly scratches the surface while putting our environment and health at serious risk.” Background Congresswoman Eshoo has been an ardent and outspoken opponent of the Keystone XL pipeline. As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, she has heard testimony from TransCanada and high-ranking Administration officials on the merits of the project. Keystone XL backers have widely touted a TransCanada report that projects the pipeline will create 20,000 U.S. jobs, including 13,000 in construction and 7,000 in manufacturing. The State Department’s projections, made in consultation with TransCanada, reveal that up to 42,100 direct and indirect temporary jobs will be supported during construction of the pipeline. However, in less than two years when construction is completed, Keystone XL is expected to support only 35 permanent jobs. Supporters of Keystone XL argue that the project guarantees the U.S. will be an end consumer of the Canadian tar sands oil. In fact, there’s no guarantee consumers will see one drop in the U.S. market. TransCanada’s president of energy and oil pipelines, Alex Pourbaix, admitted this under questioning at a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in 2011 when he said the company was not willing to put into law or shipping contracts language that guarantees the oil remains in the U.S. Because tar sands oil is expensive to produce, oil companies want an export route to the more lucrative international market. The U.S. will bear 100 percent of the risk of a catastrophic spill in return for serving as a conduit for Canadian oil to reach the international market. This is not a theoretical risk. In 2013, an Exxon Mobil pipeline spilled approximately 5,000 barrels of oil in Mayflower, Arkansas, forcing residents to evacuate their homes. In Marshall, Michigan, cleanup is still ongoing after a spill of 800,000 gallons in 2010, which is expected to cost hundreds of millions of dollars. # # #
11.10.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Agreement Between NASA and Planetary Ventures November 10th, 2014 Public-Private Partnership to Restore Historic Hangar One & Preserve Moffett Federal Airfield PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement on the announcement of an agreement between NASA and Planetary Ventures, LLC (“PV”, a Google subsidiary): “This significant and long-awaited victory, achieved with the approval of the U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) after a highly competitive process, honors Moffett Field and Hangar One as part of U.S. Naval history, while looking to the future by promoting research into space, aviation and other emerging technologies. “The agreement between NASA and PV is a major win for our region and our country in the following ways: Retains federal ownership of Moffett Field. Restores and preserves Hangar One. Provides taxpayer benefits through a $200 million expenditure by PV on restoration; produces $1.16 billion in rents to NASA over 60 years; and eliminates NASA Ames’ maintenance costs of $6 million per year, saving significant taxpayer dollars. Creates a world-class public facility for non-profit educational, conference, exhibition and museum space. Promotes science-based research and public-private partnerships. Prioritizes public safety in our region by allowing the 129th Rescue Wing and other federal agencies, including FEMA, to continue to utilize the facility and protect Bay Area residents.” Background Built in 1931 as the naval airship hangar for the USS Macon, Hangar One is a local landmark and beloved by historians. Its preservation and restoration has been a high priority for the surrounding communities and a fight to save it has been waged for years. Since 2003 when the Navy made a decision to demolish Hangar One, Congresswoman Eshoo worked with community advocates and innumerable federal officials to preserve and restore Hangar One and protect Moffett Airfield as a federal facility. Spanning three Presidents, seven NASA Administrators, five NASA Ames Center Directors and three Secretaries of the Navy, their efforts have culminated in an agreement that assures the place of Hangar One and Moffett Airfield in San Francisco Bay Area history and charts a new course for innovative use of these high value federal facilities. There has been deep commitment and hard work by community advocates, the cities of Mountain View and Sunnyvale, and organizations including: Save Hangar One Committee; National Trust for Historic Preservation; California Preservation Foundation; Association of Old Crows; Moffett Field Restoration Advisory Board; Silicon Valley Leadership Group; Bay Area Council; Joint Venture of Silicon Valley; the Adjutant General of California and his leadership team at the 129th Rescue Wing; the Secretary of the Navy; the Secretary of the Air Force; the Administrator of GSA; the Administrator of NASA; and the Center Director of NASA Ames and his remarkable staff. Eshoo concluded: “My colleagues in the California Congressional Delegation, especially Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren and Leader Nancy Pelosi, shared the goal of preserving and restoring Hangar One and helping to promote future generations of innovators, and I am very grateful to them.” # # #
11.10.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President’s Open Internet Plan November 10th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement on President Obama’s open Internet plan: “The President’s statement today recognizes once again the guiding tenets of a free and open Internet. His endorsement of a sound legal approach to open Internet rules will continue the success of the Internet. “I strongly urge the FCC to adopt the President’s approach.” In a letter to the FCC last month, Eshoo outlined a legal approach and set of rules consistent with the President’s plan announced today. # # #
10.28.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Rogers Make Bipartisan Call for Funding of Bio-Defense agency Amid Ebola Outbreak October 28th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a bipartisan letter to Congressional appropriators, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) called for additional funding for BARDA, the Biomedical Advance Research and Development Authority, and related bio-defense programs amid the ongoing Ebola epidemic. Eshoo and Rogers wrote: “BARDA is now leading the federal government’s efforts to develop vaccines and therapeutics against Ebola. While ongoing programs at the National Institutes of Health are essential for early-stage Ebola research, only BARDA has the infrastructure to actually get a vaccine or drug prepared for use in this outbreak.” Authors of a 2006 law to create BARDA, Eshoo and Rogers cite stagnant funding for this critical government agency and related bio-defense programs. A copy of the letter can be viewed here. The following is the text of the letter: October 24, 2014 The Honorable Hal Rogers, Chairman House Committee on Appropriations H-305, The Capitol Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Nita Lowey, Ranking Member House Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Jack Kingston, Chairman Subcommittee on Labor, HHS House Committee on Appropriations 2358-B Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Rosa DeLauro, Ranking Member Subcommittee on Labor, HHS House Committee on Appropriations 1016 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairmen Rogers and Kingston and Ranking Members Lowey and DeLauro, As you consider additional funding requests from the Administration related to the ongoing Ebola epidemic, we write to bring your attention to the importance of the Biomedical Advance Research and Development Authority (BARDA). Congress must provide BARDA the resources it needs to ensure vaccines and therapeutics can be delivered to Ebola patients as soon as possible. In 2006 we authored bipartisan legislation to create BARDA for the purpose of accelerating development of medical countermeasures (MCMs) against biological threats. The agency was reauthorized by Congress last year in the Pandemic and All-Hazard’s Preparedness Reauthorization Act (P.L. 113-5). In doing so, Congress recognized that many of the MCMs needed to protect the American people do not yet exist and their development is a risky, expensive, and lengthy process. Because there is no commercial market for MCMs, Congress also established the Project BioShield Special Reserve Fund which is responsible for procuring these countermeasures for stockpiling. Funding from BARDA helps MCM developers bridge the so-called “valley of death” which occurs during late stages of the countermeasure development process. BARDA also has unique fast-track contracting authority which helps promising drugs move faster from clinical trials to production. We are proud to say we now have millions of countermeasures safely stockpiled thanks to this agency’s successful partnership with the private sector. As you know, BARDA is now leading the federal government’s efforts to develop vaccines and therapeutics against Ebola. While on-going programs at the National Institutes of Health are essential for early-stage Ebola research, only BARDA has the infrastructure to actually get a vaccine or drug prepared for use in this outbreak. Clearly, the successful development of a countermeasure against Ebola is the best way to ensure we can stem the tragic tide of this historic epidemic. Thanks to your leadership, Congress granted BARDA an additional $58 million to begin the development of promising Ebola vaccine and therapeutic candidates. But according to BARDA Director Robin Robinson’s testimony before Congress on September 16th, BARDA will need additional funding to continue development and successfully scale-up the manufacturing of Ebola products that can quickly be delivered to patients. The most effective way to deliver these critical resources is to fully fund the Project BioShield Special Reserve Fund (SRF). The SRF is the most effective tool for the federal government to attract private sector developers to the challenging task of countermeasure development. Without the promise of a government commitment to MCMs, developers in the private sector will abandon much of their work on these products. The Pandemic and All-Hazard’s Preparedness Reauthorization Act authorized $2.8 billion in funding for the SRF over five years (FY2014-FY2018). Unfortunately, the SRF has only received $255 million in appropriations to date – just nine percent of its five-year authorization from Congress. At this pace, our ability to develop and procure MCMs for Ebola and the numerous other threats facing our nation will be quickly diminished. We urge you to fully fund the SRF by appropriating in advance its remaining authorized funds ($2.45 billion). This action would have two immediate and long lasting effects. First, it would ensure BARDA has every resource necessary to quickly develop Ebola products. Secondly, it would reinvigorate the U.S. biodefense market to ensure that we are not caught flat-footed again during the next outbreak, pandemic, or bioterror event. As you begin work on either an emergency supplemental or the next Fiscal Year 2015 Appropriations package, we urge you to provide additional funding for BARDA and the SRF. Thank you for your consideration of this urgent issue. Sincerely, Mike Rogers Anna G. Eshoo cc: The Honorable John Boehner, Speaker, U.S. House of Representatives cc: The Honorable Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Leader, U.S. House of Representatives cc: The Honorable Fred Upton, Chairman, House Committee on Energy and Commerce cc: The Honorable Henry Waxman, Ranking Member, House Committee on Energy and Commerce cc: The Honorable Ron Klain, Ebola Response Coordinator # # #
10.22.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for ‘Light-Touch’ Regulation for Open Internet Rules October 22nd, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, wrote to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler urging the adoption of robust, enforceable rules that ensure a free and open Internet for consumers and innovators alike. In her letter, Eshoo comprehensively outlines her suggested approach of reclassifying broadband providers as a telecommunications service under Title II of the Communications Act. Specifically, Eshoo believes open Internet rules based on a ‘light-touch’ Title II approach—that is, forbearing certain sections of Title II—should apply to both fixed and mobile broadband services and must prevent broadband providers from engaging in blocking of lawful Internet traffic, paid prioritization and throttling. In the letter, Eshoo wrote: “Importantly, a ‘light-touch’ Title II approach, which I urge you to adopt, recognizes that the entirety of Title II’s 47 sections are not necessary to ensure the FCC retains oversight of broadband for net neutrality, consumer protection and universal service goals.” A copy of the letter can be found here. The following is the text of the letter: October 22, 2014 The Honorable Tom Wheeler, Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 Twelfth Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Re: Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet, GN Docket No. 14-28 Dear Chairman Wheeler, As unswerving defenders of a free and open Internet, you and I share the concern that in the wake of the D.C. Circuit Court’s decision in Verizon v. FCC, consumers and innovators have no meaningful recourse if broadband providers act as online gatekeepers. After a decade of uncertainty, it’s time to protect the open Internet, the economic crown jewel of our country, once and for all. The message from the over 3.7 million Americans who shared their views with the Commission, primarily through electronic communications, is loud and clear. To ensure the Internet remains a robustly competitive engine for economic growth, the reinstated open Internet rules must be based on solid legal ground and provide certainty for consumers and businesses alike. Simply put, the open Internet rules as proposed in May 2014 are not adequate to protect free speech, competition and the continued openness of the Internet. As you seek to reinstate robust, enforceable open Internet rules, I urge you to heed the call of innovators, entrepreneurs and the millions of everyday Internet users around the country who have advocated for effective rules that prevent broadband providers from online blocking and discrimination. More specifically, I urge the Commission to adopt a comprehensive set of open Internet rules that apply to both fixed and mobile broadband services and ensure the following principles: Transparency and Disclosure of ISP’s Reasonable Network Management and Billing Practices: Broadband providers must accurately disclose in clear, unambiguous terms the network management practices, performance, and commercial terms, as well as any mandatory below-the-line fees associated with their broadband Internet access services. No Blocking: Broadband providers may not block lawful Internet traffic, subject to reasonable network management and public safety. No Paid Prioritization: Broadband providers may not establish financial arrangements with content owners for the purpose of establishing fast and slow lanes on the Internet, discriminatory data caps or other terms or conditions that provide paid preferential treatment to certain online content. No Throttling: Broadband providers may not slow down or degrade lawful Internet traffic, subject to reasonable network management and public safety. Open Internet Rules Must Protect Mobile Broadband Service Today, an increasing number of Americans are using their mobile devices to access the Internet, check e-mail and use social networks. In fact, as highlighted in a new study by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), 77 percent of job seekers have used a smartphone app as part of their effort to secure a new job. This same study found that mobile phones appear to be helping to narrow the digital divide, particularly among low-income Americans and those with disabilities. When it comes to consumer expectations, a recently released survey by the Internet Association found that nearly 90 percent of respondents opposed the creation of fast and slow lanes by their wireless carrier. More than two-thirds of respondents in this same survey said their wireless carrier shouldn’t be able to block access to lawful websites and applications. For these reasons, I urge you to ensure that the reinstated open Internet rules provide consumers and businesses with the same good protections, based on the same sound authority, whether they access the Internet through a smartphone or through a wired Internet connection in a home or business. Title II Provides Open Internet Rules With a Strong Legal Basis In light of the Verizon decision, it is critical that the open Internet rules you adopt be able to withstand judicial scrutiny. As the D.C. Circuit noted, Title II of the Communications Act already provides the FCC with the legal authority it needs to adopt the rules and protections described above. Reclassifying broadband providers as “telecommunications service” providers is the best and surest way to accomplish these objectives. Importantly, a ‘light-touch’ Title II approach, which I urge you to adopt, recognizes that the entirety of Title II’s 47 sections are not necessary to ensure the FCC retains oversight of broadband for net neutrality, consumer protection and universal service goals. It is true that some of these laws do apply only to telephone services. But others are the source of timeless principles that can and do apply to all two-way telecom services, including broadband. At a minimum, a light-touch Title II approach should include but not be limited to the use of Section 202, which explicitly states that “any unjust or unreasonable discrimination” is unlawful. Furthermore, this approach should seek comment on whether to retain the use of other consumer protection provisions contained within Title II, including the preservation of universal service, the protection of privacy and the assurance of access for people with disabilities. Some have painted Title II as a relic of the past, suggesting that the reclassification of broadband as a common carrier service will curtail investment and tie down the nation’s communications providers in heavy-handed regulation. I do not support heavy-handed regulation and it is not called for. The claims that Title II is heavy-handed are simply unfounded. The Commission already has the ability to tailor the law for market circumstances, deciding when and where to forbear from certain rules when those requirements are no longer necessary to protect the public. The Commission has used this forbearance authority often – removing many legal obligations from Title II services like wireless voice, for example, but never abandoning the core nondiscrimination protections that are at the heart of the Communications Act. Furthermore, the fundamental consumer protections embodied in Title II are just as important as ever. Earlier this month, the FCC reached a $105 million settlement with AT&T on behalf of consumers that had been subjected to a fraudulent billing practice known as “cramming.” Similarly, in September 2014 the FCC reached an important settlement with Verizon to uphold the privacy of customer information. Both of these actions relied in large part on Title II authority. Unless the Commission reclassifies broadband under Title II, it will not be able to take actions like these to protect consumers and businesses when it comes to their use of broadband and other modern communications services. Thank you for your consideration of a light-touch Title II approach, and your commitment to preserving a free and open Internet for generations to come. Most gratefully, Anna G. Eshoo Ranking Member Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Energy and Commerce Committee # # #
10.03.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Joins Quiet Skies Caucus to Combat Aircraft Noise October 3rd, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today her membership in the Congressional Quiet Skies Caucus. As a founding member of the recently created caucus, Eshoo will raise awareness on the issue of aircraft noise and work to find meaningful solutions to the problem. The caucus consists of Members of Congress from across the country whose constituents are adversely affected by incidents of airplane and helicopter noise. “Airports are epicenters of economic growth, but the noise from aircraft can make them pesky neighbors for many residents who live near them, including many of my constituents,” Eshoo said. “The creation of the Quiet Skies Caucus provides a forum to advance solutions that abate aircraft noise in our communities. I look forward to working with members of the caucus to address the concerns of residents who are impacted by aircraft noise.” In September, Eshoo and 25 other Members of Congress indicated their disappointment with the Federal Aviation Administration’s handling of aircraft noise and failure to update a decades-old noise limit. A copy of the letter can be found here. # # #
10.03.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FDA Grants for Development of Rare Disease Therapies October 3rd, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement on the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) announcement that the agency is awarding $19 million in grants to boost the development of medical device, drug, and biological products for patients with rare diseases. Stanford University will receive $1.6 million of the FDA grant money, and at least a quarter of the total funding will go to studies focused on pediatrics. Another $1.6 million is being awarded to Johns Hopkins University for pancreatic cancer research, a devastating disease that Congresswoman Eshoo has worked to eradicate with federal law enacted in 2012. “Sustained federal investment in biomedical research is critical to the advancement of therapies and cures, especially for rare diseases with little to no treatment options,” Eshoo said. “I commend the FDA for recognizing and working to address the need for investment in rare disease therapies, and I’m proud that Stanford University will participate in this critical undertaking.” Background The grants are administered through the FDA’s Orphan Products Grants Program. This program was created by the Orphan Drug Act, passed in 1983, to promote the development of products for rare diseases. Since its inception, the program has given more than $330 million to fund more than 530 new clinical studies on developing treatments for rare diseases and has been used to bring more than 50 products to marketing approval. A panel of independent experts with experience in the disease-related fields reviewed the grant applications and made recommendations to the FDA. For the grants program therapies, a disease or condition is considered rare if it affects less than 200,000 persons in the United States. There are about 7,000 rare diseases and conditions, according to the National Institutes of Health. In total, nearly 30 million Americans suffer from at least one rare disease. # # #
10.01.2014	+ SHARE Members Ask GAO to Study Effects of Spectrum Auction on Low-Power TV Stations October 1st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.–In a letter to the head of the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO), Reps. Joe Barton (R-TX) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, are requesting the agency study the potential impacts of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) incentive auction on low-power TV (LPTV) broadcasters and TV translator stations, as well as their viewers and the communities they serve. The members acknowledge that the FCC is conducting a similar examination, but believe that a GAO study would also be beneficial, especially in providing recommendations to the FCC and Congress on ways to remedy adverse impacts of the auction on LPTV stations and their viewers. In the letter, Reps. Barton and Eshoo ask the GAO to provide the following information: The total number of LPTV stations that provide original programming or broadcast local news and information, especially those serving racial and ethnic minority communities; The total number of TV translator stations that rebroadcast local news and information programming of a full-power TV broadcast station; A projection of the number of such LPTV stations and TV translator stations that will be unable to locate to or operate on replacement channels after the auction; and A projection of the number of viewers that will lose over-the-air access to at least one such local LPTV station that provide local news and information, especially to underserved communities of interest. A complete copy of the letter can be found here. # # #
09.18.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Waxman & Nelson Urge FCC to Act on Expanded Political Disclosure Rules September 18th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, three senior Members of Congress expressed their support for the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to adopt rules enhancing campaign disclosure. In a letter to FCC Chairman Wheeler, the Members wrote in strong support of a July 31, 2014 petition for rulemaking filed by the Campaign Legal Center, Common Cause and the Sunlight Foundation, which would require cable, satellite and broadcast radio stations to post existing political file documents to the FCC’s online database. Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), and senior member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee Senator Bill Nelson (D-Fla.) sent the letter. The following is the text of the letter: September 18, 2014 The Honorable Tom Wheeler, Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler, We write in strong support of the July 31, 2014, petition for rulemaking filed by the Campaign Legal Center, Common Cause, and the Sunlight Foundation. Adoption of this petition would enhance campaign disclosure by requiring cable, satellite, and broadcast radio stations to post existing political file documents to the FCC’s online database. As of July 1, 2014, all broadcast television stations are already subject to this simple requirement which greatly improves the accessibility of the political advertising data disclosed in the political file. The 2014 election is projected to be the most expensive midterm election cycle in U.S. history. Spending on political television advertisements is expected to surpass $2.4 billion in the 2014 election cycle, a 70 percent increase over 2010. Even more concerning is the rapid increase in spending by outside groups, many of which are not required to disclose donors or expenditures to the Federal Election Commission (FEC). According to the Center for Responsive Politics, outside spending to date in the 2014 election cycle is three times higher than at this point in 2010. As outlined in the rulemaking petition, cable and satellite providers have seen an increasing share of political spending over the last several election cycles. In 2014, experts predict that cable will account for a quarter of all televised political advertising nationwide. Broadcast radio is also expected to see increased political advertising in the 2014 cycle, with projected revenues of over $400 million. Given this trend, it’s imperative that the FCC expand its online filing requirement to cable and satellite operators, as well as broadcast radio licensees. We also urge the FCC to consider taking steps to enhance the accessibility of online political file documents. For example, requiring online filings to be uploaded to the FCC’s database in a standardized or searchable format would substantially improve the ability of the public, journalists, and policymakers to aggregate and analyze political spending data. The proposed rulemaking would require all political advertisements, regardless of whether they are aired on broadcast television, cable, satellite, or radio, to be disclosed in a single, comprehensive online database. When combined with improved accessibility of these documents, this will provide the public with a simple and straightforward means to access public information that is already disclosed in each operator’s political file. This action is especially important given that the political file can shed light on the expenditures of outside groups that are not subject to oversight by the FEC. We urge you to take these commonsense steps to improve transparency and ensure unfettered public access to this critically important information. Sincerely, __________________ __________________ __________________ Anna G. Eshoo Henry A. Waxman Bill Nelson Member of Congress Member of Congress U.S. Senator cc: Commissioner Mignon Clyburn Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel Commissioner Ajit Pai Commissioner Michael O’Rielly # # #
09.11.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Results of Net Neutrality Rebranding Contest September 11th, 2014 September 11, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, announced today the final results of her contest on Reddit to rebrand net neutrality—the term used to describe the principle of all Internet traffic being created equal and that it should be treated as such. Launched August 21st, the contest drew a total of over 28,000 votes for 3,671 different entries and comments. Of entries that were actual rebranding suggestions, the following are the three that received the most votes by the end of the contest: 1. Reddit user “PotentPortentPorter” had the most votes with their entry “Freedom Against Internet Restrictions.” (1,146 votes) 2. Reddit user “thelimitededition” had the second most votes with their entry “Freedom to Connect (F2C).” (607 votes) 3. Reddit user “trigatch4” had the third most votes with their entry “The Old McDonald Act: Equal Internet for Everyone Involved Online (EIEIO).” (547 votes) In addition to casting votes for rebranding, there were approximately 5,000 votes from Reddit users in favor of what they believe is the best policy approach to achieve net neutrality. All 5,000 votes favored a reclassification of broadband providers as common carriers, specifically under Title II of the Communications Act. ###
08.21.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches Net Neutrality Rebranding Contest August 21st, 2014 #166264609 / gettyimages.com PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and open Internet advocate, today launched a contest to rebrand ‘net neutrality’—the term used to describe the principle of all Internet traffic being created equal and that it should be treated as such. In May, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) proposed new Internet traffic rules under the guise of net neutrality. But if approved, the proposed plan could split the flow of online traffic into tiers by allowing priority treatment to big online corporations that pay higher fees to broadband providers. This would mean a fast lane for those who can afford it and a slow lane for everyone else, hindering small businesses, innovators and Internet users. “Internet users know what they want and expect from the Internet, but these days all the jargon about net neutrality rules is making it difficult to know what box to check that advances their best interest,” said Eshoo. “That’s why I’m hosting a contest on Reddit to rebrand net neutrality and bring some clarity to an otherwise muddy legal debate before the FCC finalizes its proposed open Internet rules. If Internet users care about their right to uninhibited access to the Internet, this is their opportunity to have an impact on the process, to help put the advantage back in the hands of the Internet user, and to ensure that the free and open Internet prevails.” The contest is free to enter and the rules are simple. The most popular entry on the Reddit post will be declared the winner on September 8, 2014. Participants are reminded to refrain from using vulgar or otherwise inappropriate language. # # #
08.08.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Humanitarian Aid For Christians and Religious Minorities Facing Genocide August 8th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement in support of the Christians and other religious minorities of Iraq, especially in the Nineveh Plain, who continue to flee the persecution of the Islamic terrorist group, ISIS. A march on the United Nations office in San Francisco is scheduled for Friday, August 8th to demand action in support of the victims. “At this moment, the religious minority communities of Iraq, many of them descendants of the original Christians, are threatened with genocide. In Nineveh, tens of thousands of men, women and children are without food or water and live in constant fear of death by ISIS. Countless others have been tortured, or forced to convert to Islam or be murdered. “Immediate humanitarian aid is desperately needed to rescue these innocent people. The United States should call on the United Nations Security Council to lead a humanitarian intervention on behalf of victimized Iraqi minorities. “The situation is desperate. Shortly it will be hopeless. We must act now.” Last week, Eshoo led an effort in the House of Representatives to pass H.Res. 683 which calls for international intervention on behalf of Iraqi civilians facing a dire humanitarian crisis, and sent a bipartisan letter urging President Obama to immediately address the situation in Iraq. Her letter can be viewed here. # # #
07.31.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Veterans Health Reform Bill July 31st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In response to shocking reports of delayed access to health care for America’s veterans in the Veterans Administration (VA), Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) voted in favor of the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014. The bipartisan legislation improves access to health care for millions of the nation’s veterans. The bill passed the House by a vote of 420 to 5 and is expected to pass the Senate. “It is our collective responsibility to ensure that every American who wears a uniform to defend our country will have the health services, opportunities and care they’ve earned,” Eshoo said. “This is a promise our nation must keep.” “Most importantly, this legislation provides a solution to the unacceptable wait times for care that veterans have endured at the VA, and creates accountability with VA employees and transparency for patients and the public,” Eshoo concluded. Background: Eshoo co-hosted a Town Hall Meeting for veterans at the Palo Alto VA Hospital with Congresswoman Jackie Speier (D-Calif.) and Palo Alto VA Director Lisa Freeman on July 7th. The meeting was attended by veterans who are patients in the Palo Alto VA system and who shared their personal experiences. Eshoo has successfully advocated for two Fisher Houses to be constructed on the Palo Alto VA campus. The Fisher House Foundation is a unique public-private partnership which builds homes at VA medical facilities for families of veterans and active-duty personnel being served at the facility. Together with Rep. Eshoo’s efforts, the generosity of local donors, and the excellent work of the Fisher House Foundation, the nation’s largest Fisher House opened at VA Palo Alto in April 2006. In 2011, Rep. Eshoo led an effort in support of the construction of a second Fisher House to meet the growing demand for accommodations at the Palo Alto VA for families from California and across the country who stay with their loved ones during their extended stays at the Palo Alto VA. Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014: The Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014 contains major provisions to improve the availability of health care to veterans. Significantly, the bill: Requires the VA to offer non-VA care to any veteran currently enrolled in the VA system; Establishes a Congressional Commission on Care to oversee VA health care access; Provides $5 billion to VA for hiring of physicians and improving its infrastructure; Streamlines the dismissal of senior managers for poor performance or misconduct; Requires public colleges to provide in-state tuition for veterans and dependents in order to retain G.I. Bill payments; and Provides full Post 9/11 G.I. Bill benefits to spouses of servicemembers who died in military combat after 9/11. # # #
07.31.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Decries Frivolous Partisan Lawsuit Against President July 31st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement today, which she submitted for the congressional record, regarding the House Republican lawsuit against the President: “I speak today in opposition to the unprecedented Republican plan to sue the President of the United States. “At a time when Congress should be focusing on strengthening the middle class and expanding opportunities for all Americans, our Republican colleagues in the House accuse the President of unconstitutionally abusing his executive power by delaying the requirement in the Affordable Care Act that larger companies provide health insurance to their employees. “At a time when student debt exceeds credit card debt in our country, when mothers are the primary breadwinner yet receive unequal pay, and when job creation is stagnating, our Republican colleagues have proposed a baseless, shameful lawsuit that further erodes the public’s confidence in the United States Congress and a functioning American democracy. “The lawsuit is fundamentally flawed in several ways: “First, Republicans argue that the President acted outside of his authority with respect to implementing the Affordable Care Act. “Claims that the President is ignoring the law are unmerited. Records show that the President is using the same flexibility that presidents of both parties have long utilized to phase in new programs and policies and ensure that statutes are implemented in workable, sensible ways, minimizing disruption to individuals, families and businesses. “Everything we do in Congress bears the mark of humanity. No law is perfect and occasionally, presidents must make reasonable, short-term accommodations to reality. “Second, the courts are not the appropriate place to work out political disagreements between one half of one House of Congress and the Administration. “The Affordable Care Act was passed by the House and the Senate and signed into law by the President. I understand that many House Republicans hate the law; they’ve made that abundantly clear in the more than 50 times they have voted to repeal it. “After unsuccessfully attempting to repeal the law through regular order, House Republicans, grasping at straws, have opted to give away the mighty powers of the legislative branch to the judicial branch. If Congress starts relying on judges to check executive power, instead of the tools the Constitution grants us, this body will transfer enormous authority to the judicial branch. “And to add insult to injury, the entire cost of this political misadventure will be paid for by the taxpayers. “Repeated attempts to maintain regular order regarding cost transparency have been rebuffed. “Ranking Member Slaughter of the Rules Committee sent a letter to Chairman Sessions, asking for a cost estimate of the lawsuit. No useful information has been provided. “Ranking Member Brady of the House Administration Committee sent a letter to Speaker Boehner asking for regular order and transparency with the use of taxpayer money. No useful information has been provided. “Amendment after amendment was offered by the Minority Members of the Rules Committee to provide transparency to the expenditures which would come out of legislative branch funds. All were voted down on party lines. “This lawsuit is further proof of House Republicans’ contempt and disregard for the priorities of the American people—an effort to pander to the most extreme, rightwing voters at taxpayer expense and our nation’s well-being.” # # #
07.30.2014	+ SHARE Members Introduce Bipartisan Federal IT Procurement Reform Bill July 30th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—A bipartisan group of Members today proposed sweeping reforms to how the federal government purchases IT goods and services. The Reforming Federal Procurement of Information Technology (RFP-IT) Act, introduced by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, Rep. Gerry Connolly (D-Va.), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee, Rep. Richard Hanna (R-N.Y.), Chairman of the Small Business Subcommittee on Contracting and Workforce, and Rep. Eric Swalwell (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Committee on Science, Space and Technology’s Energy Subcommittee, and Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.) incorporates significant stakeholder feedback from draft legislation that was circulated earlier this year. Most significantly, the RFP-IT Act lowers barriers to entry to allow small, innovative businesses to compete for federal contracts, and would create a new, high-level office in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to guide federal IT policy and review high-priority IT projects. “The launch of healthcare.gov had many troubling aspects to it. It also opened the flood gates of concerns and comments from small companies and entrepreneurs in my district who have important technologies, yet cannot compete in the federal procurement process because it is too complicated, too slow, and often simply not worth the investment of time,” said Eshoo, whose congressional district is home to Silicon Valley. “The federal government should be seeking out the best value for the taxpayer dollar, not the company that can best navigate thousands of pages of procurement regulations.” “Our bill will also increase accountability by creating a new White House office focused on guiding high-priority and high-risk IT projects. A recent study found that 94 percent of major government IT projects between 2003 and 2012 came in over budget, behind schedule, or failed completely. In an $80 billion sector of our federal budget, this is an unacceptable waste of taxpayer dollars,” Eshoo concluded. “Recent years have taught us that in the 21st century, effective governance is inextricably linked with how well government utilizes technology to serve its citizens,” said Connolly, who is also co-author of complementary bipartisan legislation to modernize the seminal Clinger Cohen Act of 1996. “Incremental improvements in federal IT management have been completely eclipsed by large-scale federal IT disasters that waste taxpayers’ dollars and jeopardize our nation’s ability to carry out fundamental constitutional responsibilities, from conducting a census to securing our borders to caring for our dedicated veterans in a timely manner.” “The bipartisan RFP-IT Act recognizes that transforming federal IT procurement requires enhancing competition, attracting innovative new vendors, and strengthening accountability. By promoting the use of simplified acquisition procedures, the RFP-IT Act will shorten procurement lead times and level the playing field for start-ups and small businesses – a critical factor in a technology sector that is characterized by the constant influx of new entrants and rapidly evolving products and services,” Connolly concluded. “Information technology advances should make it easier for government to function more effectively and cost-effectively in the 21st century,” Hanna said. “But in order to realize this potential, we need to update the old-fashioned way agencies purchase IT goods and services. The RFP-IT Act helps small businesses provide their cutting-edge digital solutions to the government. By including more small businesses in the federal IT marketplace, we can increase competition, cut costs for taxpayers, help agencies more competently carry out their missions and ultimately create new good-paying high-tech jobs in the private sector.” “The federal government’s 20th century procurement process leaves out too many 21st century companies,” said Swalwell. “We must enable innovative tech companies, like those located in my East Bay congressional district, to compete for federal IT projects. I thank Congresswoman Eshoo for introducing this is commonsense legislation that will do just that, granting businesses federal contracts based on their ideas and expertise and not their understanding of the current cumbersome procurement process.” “We need a 21st century approach to reform the way the Federal government manages information technology projects, which is why I am pleased to join with my colleagues in introducing this legislation today to help make sure that taxpayers receive the highest return on federal investments in information technology,” said DelBene. Background Federal procurement reform has been on the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) high-risk list in some form since the early 1990s. The federal government spends $80 billion annually on IT alone, and the estimated cost to taxpayers of failed IT projects is as high as $20 billion annually. Last week, the Associated Press reported that the Social Security Administration has spent nearly $300 million since 2008 on an IT modernization project with no measurable results. The Federal government’s procurement regulations (called the Federal Acquisition Regulation or FAR) are 1,900 pages long, with each agency having a “supplement” that can be an additional 1,000 pages. This rewards incumbent companies familiar with the rules, not smaller, up-and-coming innovators. The Reforming Federal Procurement of Information Technology Act After incorporating stakeholder comments, Administration-led initiatives, and bipartisan compromises, the revised RFP-IT Act: Enhances competition for federal IT contracts by expanding the number of contracts that use a simplified process which makes it easier for small and innovative companies to bid. This will shorten lead times on contracts, lower administrative costs, and produce a broader pool of bidders for federal IT contracts. Promotes innovation in the federal government by codifying the successful Presidential Innovation Fellows program, by improving the quality of solicitations issued for IT procurements, and by adding the Small Business Administrator to the FAR Council, which sets federal procurement policy. Strengthens accountability by establishing a new, high-level Digital Government Office to coordinate Federal IT policy and to partner with agencies to address high-priority or failing IT projects. A copy of the bill text can be found here and a summary of the bill here. # # #
07.29.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Shares Preliminary Findings of Study on Broadband Data Caps with FCC July 29th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, shared preliminary findings of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study on the use of data caps by the nation’s wireless and wireline broadband service providers with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) today. Eshoo requested the study of the GAO in May 2013 because of her concerns that discriminatory or arbitrary applications of “usage-based” broadband pricing, often referred to as data caps, could discourage innovation, competition and consumer choice on the Internet. The preliminary findings of the GAO can be viewed here. The following is the text of Eshoo’s letter to the FCC: July 29, 2014 The Honorable Tom Wheeler, ChairmanFederal Communications Commission445 Twelfth Street, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20554 Re: Protecting and Promoting the Open Internet, GN Docket No. 14-28 Dear Chairman Wheeler, As you seek comment on how to best protect and promote an open Internet, I’m writing to share the preliminary findings of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study on “usage-based” broadband pricing, referred to by many as data caps. In the midst of the net neutrality debate, there is a new threat to the free and open Internet and that is usage-based pricing which may include the throttling or slowing down of data speeds, overage fees and the exemption of some online services or applications from data caps. These new business models have left consumers wondering whether they will have to foot the bill and how much more it will be. Ultimately, whether accessing the Internet through a mobile device or through a wired broadband connection at home, consumers have come to expect an experience that includes streaming high definition video, downloading music, and video conferencing with family and friends using the app or service of their choice. The GAO study sheds light on the effects of data caps, including the potential impact on “cord-cutters” and suggests that consumers may not be fully benefitting from lower-cost options under usage-based pricing. I trust you will carefully review the GAO’s preliminary findings and I thank you in advance for considering this data as part of the reinstatement of strong, enforceable net neutrality rules. Most gratefully, Anna G. EshooRanking MemberSubcommittee on Communications and TechnologyEnergy and Commerce Committee # # #
07.29.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Legislation to Aid Religious Minorities Passed into Law July 29th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) released the following statement after the House and Senate passed her bipartisan legislation to create a special envoy at the State Department to focus on the plight of religious minorities in the Middle East and South Central Asia. Co-sponsored by Rep. Frank Wolf (R-Va.), the bill now awaits the President’s signature. “Today the world is bearing witness to the persecution and eradication of religious minorities in some of the most imperiled regions on earth,” said Eshoo. “Christians in the Middle East and South Central Asia are being tortured, killed and live in fear simply because of their religion. The stories are countless, and the response has been meager.” “With enactment of this legislation, America is appropriately stepping up its response and will be more capable in providing aid to religious minorities. A special envoy at the State Department will focus on the freedom and survival of religious minorities. Time is running out and this critical problem deserves to be treated as a high priority,” Eshoo concluded. # # #
07.21.2014	+ SHARE Latta, Issa, Eshoo, Matsui Introduce Bipartisan Wi-Fi Innovation Act July 21st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Energy and Commerce Communications and Technology Subcommittee Vice Chairman Bob Latta (R-OH), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-CA), Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA) today introduced the Wi-Fi Innovation Act, legislation that addresses growing spectrum demand by examining ways to improve spectrum efficiency and maximize its use. “Demand for wireless spectrum is growing rapidly as smartphone and tablet users increasingly use Wi-Fi to connect to the Internet,” said Latta. “To accommodate this demand and support future mobile development and innovation, we must utilize spectrum more efficiently. The Wi-Fi Innovation Act paves a pathway to maximize the use of spectrum and examine ways to expand the deployment of wireless networks and services across the country, so all can benefit from this next-generation technology.” “From personal communication to transportation, healthcare and beyond, wireless technologies are changing and improving our lives,” said Issa. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act will make available the spectrum necessary to support the best new inventions and the jobs and prosperity these new discoveries will foster. I applaud the bipartisan work between my House colleagues Congressman Bob Latta (R-OH), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Congresswoman Doris Matsui (D-CA). Additionally, I am pleased to work in cooperation with both Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) and Senator Cory Booker (D-NJ) for their efforts to push a companion bill through the Senate.” “For three decades unlicensed spectrum has been the invisible backbone to myriad wireless technologies, ranging from Wi-Fi and Bluetooth to garage doors and cordless phones. But in order to unlock the next generation of wireless technology we need to optimize our finite amount of available spectrum,” said Eshoo. “Last year, 57 percent of America’s mobile data traffic was offloaded onto Wi-Fi networks supported by unlicensed spectrum. It’s also estimated that unlicensed spectrum accounted for more than $200 billion of the U.S. economy in 2013, including $36 billion in savings to consumers. The bipartisan, bicameral Wi-Fi Innovation Act directs the FCC to determine the extent to which unlicensed spectrum can be shared and utilized in increasingly innovative ways to benefit consumers and our economy. It’s this kind of forward-thinking that will produce enormous economic benefits and could yield untold technological discovery.” “Wi-Fi is already an integral part of our everyday lives; we must meet current demand and put in place a plan to meet growing needs,” continued Matsui. “The Wi-Fi Innovation Act will require the FCC to develop and adopt a testing process to evaluate the feasibility of sharing in the 5GHz band. It is my hope that the FCC will use this opportunity to produce hard data that can be relied upon during decision-making on the future of the 5GHz band. It is our responsibility to ensure that the U.S. continues to be the center for technology and innovation, and spectrum will be necessary to achieve this.” The Wi-Fi Innovation Act directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to conduct tests within the 5 GHz spectrum band to determine if spectrum can be shared without interfering with current users. The bill also acknowledges ongoing efforts related to the development of critical safety applications in vehicles and other intelligent transportation initiatives and creates a study to examine the barriers to Wi-Fi deployment in low-income areas. This legislation builds on Latta, Issa, Eshoo and Matsui’s leadership in unleashing more unlicensed spectrum for consumers and innovators. Last year, the four members led a letter to then Acting FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn urging the agency to make additional spectrum available for unlicensed use in the 5GHz band. # # #
07.16.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces the Democracy is for All Amendment July 16th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) co-introduced the Democracy for All Amendment (H.J. Res. 119) joining with other Members of the House Election Task Force. The legislation is the House companion to S.J. Res. 19, the constitutional amendment slated for a historic vote in the U.S. Senate this year. The Democracy is for All Amendment will reverse the highly controversial Supreme Court decisions, Citizens United v. FEC and McCutcheon v. FEC, which have given corporations and the wealthiest donors the right to buy unlimited influence in our elections with secret money in secret amounts funneled through shadowy tax-exempt organizations. “The Supreme Court decisions of Citizens United and McCutcheon have cast a dark shadow over our democracy by bringing us dangerously closer to an electoral system where the voices of everyday Americans are easily drowned out by corporations, shadowy front groups, and a handful of billionaires,” said Eshoo. “At a time when Americans of every political persuasion want big money out of our elections, the Democracy for All Amendment will restore their authority to pass laws protecting the integrity of our electoral process. By reversing Citizens United and related cases, this amendment will advance the basic principle of ‘one voice-one vote’ that is so integral to our democracy.” Background Since the 2010 Citizens United decision, Americans have witnessed an unprecedented explosion of big money in state and federal elections. According to the Center for Responsive Politics, outside spending tripled between 2008 and 2012, and 93 percent of the more than $600 million spent in 2012 by Super PACs came from about 3,300 donors, or .0011 percent of the American population. Beyond the explosion of outside spending invited by the Supreme Court’s ruling in Citizens United, this decision also dramatically undermined the legitimacy of all campaign finance laws. In his far-reaching opinion for the 5-4 majority, Justice Kennedy held that any election law that goes beyond preventing quid pro quo, bribery-style corruption between candidates and donors risks violating the First Amendment. Unfortunately, in 2014 the Supreme Court only further embraced this narrow understanding of corruption in McCutcheon v. FEC when it invalidated aggregate limits on how much a single donor could spend per election cycle. Writing for the 5-4 majority, Chief Justice Roberts even went so far as to argue that the influence awarded to donors is not a corrupting quid pro quo transaction, but a First Amendment right. Sponsored in the U.S. Senate by Senator Tom Udall (D-NM), S.J. Res. 19 was amended and passed by the Senate Judiciary Committee on July 10, 2014. The provisions within the Democracy for All Amendment are the product of months of collaboration between the House and Senate sponsors of previously proposed constitutional amendments, constitutional scholars, and grassroots advocacy organizations committed to restoring the integrity of our electoral process. In addition to overturning recent rulings like Citizens United and McCutcheon, the Democracy is for All Amendment also reverses the Supreme Court’s controversial holding in Buckley v. Valeo that spending money in elections is a form of speech protected by the First Amendment. A copy of the amendment can be downloaded here: http://go.usa.gov/Xzqk Sections of the Amendment Section I. To advance democratic self-government and political equality, and to protect the integrity of government and the electoral process, Congress and the States may regulate and set reasonable limits on the raising and spending of money by candidates and others to influence elections. Section II. Congress and the States shall have power to implement and enforce this article by appropriate legislation, and may distinguish between natural persons and corporations or other artificial entities created by law, including by prohibiting such entities from spending money to influence elections. Section III. Nothing in this article shall be construed to grant Congress or the States the power to abridge the freedom of the press. ###
07.16.2014	+ SHARE Santa Clara County Officials: Unaccompanied Children Deserve Compassion July 16th, 2014 SAN JOSE, Calif. – Santa Clara County is ready to assist in the efforts to care for unaccompanied children crossing the U.S. border, announced local and federal officials today. The announcement, from U.S. Representatives Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), and Mike Honda (CA-17), San Jose Mayor Chuck Reed, Santa Clara County Supervisors Dave Cortese and Cindy Chavez, and San Jose City Councilman Sam Liccardo, comes as large numbers of unaccompanied children crossing the U.S. border in Texas have created an unfolding humanitarian situation that requires a coordinated federal, state and local response. “Small children and refugees fleeing violence in their home countries require our support, not our acrimony,” said the officials. “And where other communities may turn these needy children away, our community is ready and willing to be compassionate. “We urge communities in the Bay Area, throughout the State of California, and across the nation to join us to make good on America’s promise of fairness and due process.” Under law, as a part of their deportation proceedings, every unaccompanied child is entitled to an evaluation to ascertain whether they are victims of human trafficking, have been abandoned or are eligible for asylum because of persecution. If not eligible, they will be returned home. But until this examination is complete, these children will remain in America where they must be treated humanely. ###
07.11.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Plan to Modernize E-Rate July 11th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) vote to approve its E-Rate modernization plan: "For nearly two decades the E-Rate program has been our nation’s largest education technology program, increasing U.S. competitiveness by facilitating one of the most game-changing digital education tools in schools and libraries nationwide…an Internet connection. “Today, the FCC expanded on the promise of 21st century digital education by approving a new plan that takes E-Rate into the future. The Commission’s plan smartly increases the presence of Wi-Fi in classrooms to meet a skyrocketing need for not just connectivity, but also widespread access. Students and teachers will be able to optimize their school’s Internet connection by simultaneously connecting to the Internet on a laptop, tablet or other mobile devices. “We cannot close the books on E-Rate reform with just today’s action. Equally important is adequate funding for E-Rate. To realize the potential for even greater Internet speeds in all schools and libraries across the country, the E-Rate program’s purchasing power must meet the growing costs of Internet connectivity and access. “I commend Chairman Wheeler and the Commission for their leadership in modernizing the E-Rate program. This forward-thinking approach signals our nation’s commitment to education on a 21st century technology platform.” ###
07.02.2014	+ SHARE Congresswomen Eshoo and Speier to Host Town Hall Meeting on Access to VA Care July 2nd, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswomen Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Jackie Speier (CA-14) will host a town hall meeting on access to care at the Palo Alto VA Hospital on Monday, July 7th to provide veterans with the opportunity to ask questions and get answers about the VA’s health care appointment process. Eshoo and Speier will be joined by the Director of the Palo Alto VA, Lisa Freeman. “Amid deeply disturbing revelations about delayed care of veterans throughout the nation and the scandal of information being manipulated, it is critically important to not only review wait times for care but also have veterans ask their own questions and have them addressed,” Eshoo said. “This town hall meeting will provide a forum for veterans in our region to share their experiences with access to care at the Palo Alto VA, and, moving forward, help to develop even better systems to improve the VA hospital for our veterans.” Speier stated, “The scandalous issue of VA employees in other states manipulating patient appointment lists to cover up long waiting times has damaged the credibility of the VA health care system. It doesn’t appear that this despicable behavior exists in Northern and Central California. But I want veterans who use VA hospitals and clinics in our area to have a chance to comment on the quality of the access to care they receive. I thank the VA Director for not only providing my staff with their insights on the challenges they face in caring for over 130,000 veterans, but also in agreeing to host a town hall meeting at the hospital.” Who: Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Rep. Jackie Speier (CA-14) Lisa Freeman, Director, VA Palo Alto Health Care System What: Town Hall Meeting on access to care at the Palo Alto VA When: Monday, July 7th 1:00 to 2:30 p.m. Where: Building 101 in the Auditorium VA Palo Alto Health Care System 3801 Miranda Avenue Palo Alto, Calif. Note: Veterans seeking guidance on their personal circumstances with access to care will have VA staff available to them for consult. Comments will be limited to the difficulty or ease with which it takes to see VA health care personnel. ###
06.26.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Improve Care for Children with Medically Complex Conditions June 26th, 2014 #103919110 / gettyimages.com WASHINGTON, D.C.—Joined today by a bipartisan group of colleagues, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee which has jurisdiction over a wide range of federal health issues, introduced the ACE Kids Act of 2014. The legislation establishes better care coordination for children who have complex medical conditions and who require multiple doctors, specialty physicians, excessive hospitalizations and coordinated intensive procedures. Through nationally designated networks that allow families to cross state lines, the legislation designates a children’s hospital “home” for a child, while integrating their local medical support team for routine and follow-up care. “Children with complicated medical conditions require a high level of health care which generates significant costs and often lacks proper coordination,” Eshoo said. “There are two million children on Medicaid with complicated conditions—six percent of all Medicaid children—and they account for 40 percent of Medicaid costs nationwide. Our legislation addresses a fragmented and unnecessarily burdensome health care system for these families. The ACE Kids Act of 2014 will alleviate state-by-state barriers for children with complex medical conditions, relieve families of the burden of coordinating their care, and assure that children will see the appropriate care providers, regardless of the state they live in.” Background Children with Complex Medical Conditions Children with complex medical conditions have multiple illnesses and disabilities. They often have to see six or more specialists and a dozen or more physicians, requiring care that takes them across state lines. Under the current system, parents of children with complex conditions struggle to coordinate the complex, multi-state care of their children. The ACE Kids Act of 2014 makes the necessary changes to health care delivery systems who are insured by Medicaid to coordinate their care, making it seamless for families and their children. The ACE Kids Act of 2014 The ACE Kids Act of 2014 creates nationally designated children’s hospital networks for children enrolled in Medicaid with complex medical conditions. These networks will include and coordinate the full range of home, primary, ambulatory, acute and post-acute care/providers. Children’s hospitals will be the anchor of these networks because of their expertise and experience in treating the unique and highly specialized needs of these children. The ACE Kids Act moves beyond today’s state-by-state approach that often limits access to care, and creates a national framework for true delivery system reform. Cost Savings The ACE Kids Act is expected to deliver savings to the Medicaid program through increased efficiencies, including reduced hospitalizations and emergency room visits while providing an array of outpatient and community services and support needed by these children. The networks would transition from a “fee-for-service” payment model to a risk-based one. This new payment model would ensure optimal outcomes for the most vulnerable children, focusing on the long-term and comprehensive care of the child, not just the next procedure or treatment. Provisions in the bill call for long-range quality improvement and cost savings through data collection. Many rare conditions do not have enough patients in any given state to have the volume of data necessary to make research and quality improvement viable. The proposed networks enable gathering national-level data on rare, complex conditions to determine best practices and drive continued improvement in care. ACE Kids Act is Voluntary The provisions in the ACE Kids Act are voluntary for states, families, children’s hospitals and other providers to opt in. Over 60 of the nation’s leading children’s hospitals, including Lucille-Packard Children’s Hospital which treats the majority of children with medical complexity in the 18th Congressional District, have joined together in support of this proposal. ###
06.26.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Reacts to Supreme Court Decision on Aereo Case June 26th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court ruled against Aereo Inc. in a case between the Internet start-up and the nation’s broadcasters, concluding that the company is in violation of copyright law: “The Supreme Court’s decision against Aereo is a disappointing one. Every day I hear from my constituents who are fed up with rising cable bills and a business model that forces them to buy a bundle of channels they will never watch. Aereo provided the innovative solution needed to disrupt the video marketplace, giving consumers greater choice in how they watch their favorite free over-the-air broadcast programming. “The Court’s decision is a reminder that our video laws are broken and ripe for reform. Legacy laws written in a time long before the Internet existed are hindering innovation and consumer choice, while protecting incumbent interests.” ###
06.19.2014	+ SHARE 55 Members of Congress Call on Obama Administration to Do More to Ensure Religious Minorities are Protected June 19th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Fifty-five Members of Congress today called on the Obama Administration to do more to help protect religious minorities in Iraq. In a letter to the president spearheaded by Reps. Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), co-chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, the bipartisan group of House Members urged the Obama Administration to actively engage with the Iraqi central government and the Kurdistan Regional Government to prioritize additional security support for especially vulnerable populations, notably Iraq’s ancient Christian community and provide emergency humanitarian assistance to those affected communities. “Absent immediate action, we will most certainly witness the annihilation of an ancient faith community from the lands they’ve inhabited for centuries,” the group wrote. The group pointed to the rapid fall of multiple cities in Iraq to the terrorist Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), which brings the militant group notably closer to its declared aim of establishing a caliphate that spans the northern sections of Syria and Iraq. “For years we have witnessed a precipitous decline of Iraq’s Christian community,” the letter said. “Thousands have fled in the face of targeted violence. Many of those that remained relocated to Mosul and the Nineveh Plain. To people of faith, Nineveh is familiar name: the site of a dramatic spiritual revival as told in the biblical book of Jonah. These areas were one of the last remaining havens for this beleaguered community.” The letter also highlighted the fact that for the first time in 1,600 years there was no Mass in Mosul on Sunday after having fallen to the ISIS last week. Below is the complete text of the letter: The Honorable Barack H. ObamaThe PresidentThe White HouseWashington DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Many Americans have been deeply troubled by the unfolding crisis in Iraq. The rapid fall of multiple Iraqi cities to the terrorist Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) brings the militant group notably closer to its declared aim of establishing a caliphate that spans the northern sections of Syria and Iraq. A June 12 BBC article described ISIS in the following way: “The group has a reputation for brutality. Parts of Syria and Iraq that have previously fallen under its rule have witnessed summary execution, beheadings and even crucifixions.” It is against this backdrop that we write to you bearing in mind recent reports from Archbishop Bashar M. Warda of the Chaldean Diocese of Erbil. While his particular diocese is relatively calm at the moment, the picture that he painted, consistent with news reports, of the situation in Mosul and the implications for Iraq’s ancient Christian community and other religious minorities was bleak and sobering. For years we have witnessed a precipitous decline of Iraq’s Christian community. Thousands have fled in the face of targeted violence. Many of those that remained relocated to Mosul and the Nineveh Plain. To people of faith, Nineveh is familiar name: the site of a dramatic spiritual revival as told in the biblical book of Jonah. These areas were one of the last remaining havens for this beleaguered community. In fact Archbishop Warda indicated that this past Sunday, for the first time in 1,600 years, there was no Mass in Mosul. For the thousands who have already fled Mosul, they are facing not just displacement and imminent danger but a growing humanitarian nightmare marked by lack of access to clean water, food, fuel and electricity. As such, we urge you and your administration to urgently and actively engage with the Iraqi central government and the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) to prioritize additional security support for these particularly vulnerable populations and provide emergency humanitarian assistance to those affected communities. Absent immediate action, we will most certainly witness the annihilation of an ancient faith community from the lands they’ve inhabited for centuries. Best wishes. Frank Wolf (R-VA)Anna Eshoo (D-CA)Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX)Adam Schiff (D-CA)Gary Peters (D-MI)Sander Levin (D-MI)Jack Kingston (R-GA)Tom Cole (R-OK)Tom Cotton (R-AR)Robert Aderholt (R-AL)Joseph Pitts (R-PA)Steve Chabot (R-OH)Kerry Bentivolio (R-MI)Paul Cook (R-CA)Michael Grimm (R-NY)Gregg Harper (R-MS)Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE)Bill Posey (R-FL)Steve Stivers (R-OH)James Lankford (R-OK)Tim Griffin (R-AR)Dennis Ross (R-FL)Christopher Smith (R-NJ)Duncan Hunter (D-CA)Jeff Duncan (R-SC)Jackie Speier (D-CA)Bill Cassidy (R-LA)Scott Peters (D-CA)Gene Green (D-TX)James McGovern (D-MA)David Jolly (R-FL)Andy Harris (R-MD)Bill Pascrell (D-NJ)Juan Vargas (D-CA)Mo Brooks (R-AL)Patrick Tiberi (R-OH)John Larson (D-CT)Vicky Hartzler (R-MO)David McKinley (R-WV)Brad Sherman (D-CA)Alan Lowenthal (D-CA)Michael Honda (D-CA)Kevin Yoder (R-KS)Marsha Blackburn (R-TN)Zoe Lofgren (D-CA)Christopher Gibson (R-NY)James Langevin (D-RI)Carolyn Maloney (D-NY)Trent Franks (R-AZ)Tom Graves (R-GA)John Dingell (D-MI)Grace Meng (D-NY)Elizabeth Esty (D-CT)Keith Rothfus (R-PA)Janice Schakowsky (D-IL) ###
06.19.2014	+ SHARE Bipartisan Group Presses for Floor Action on Permanent Internet Access Tax Moratorium Bill June 19th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—The Co-Chairs of the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Internet Caucus are urging House and Senate Leadership to pass bipartisan legislation before the August recess to permanently eliminate new state and local taxes on Internet access. In a letter from Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), as well as Senators Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and John Thune (R-S.D.), the members cite an impending November 1, 2014, expiration of current law that since 1998 has placed a moratorium on the ability of state and local governments to impose new taxes on Internet access. “The moratorium’s expiration poses a threat to many of the current benefits of the Internet for American citizens,” they wrote in the letter. With the expiration approaching, the House Judiciary Committee passed with overwhelming support yesterday a permanent extension of the Internet Tax Freedom Act.A copy of the letter sent to House and Senate Leadership can be viewed here. The following is the text of the letter: June 19, 2014 The Honorable John A. BoehnerSpeakerU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Nancy PelosiMinority LeaderU.S. House of RepresentativesWashington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Harry ReidMajority LeaderUnited States SenateWashington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable Mitch McConnellMinority LeaderUnited States SenateWashington, D.C. 20510 Dear Speaker Boehner, Leader Reid, Leader McConnell, and Leader Pelosi, We write to you as Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Internet Caucus to urge you to facilitate passage of a permanent extension of the Internet Tax Freedom Act (ITFA) prior to the August recess. First passed in 1998, ITFA placed a moratorium on the ability of state and local governments to impose new taxes on Internet access or to impose multiple or discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. The most recent extension in 2007, passed both houses unanimously. The moratorium is in effect only through November 1, 2014, and all of us have sponsored or cosponsored bipartisan legislation to extend it permanently – H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act in the House, and S. 1431, the Internet Tax Freedom Forever Act in the Senate. The moratorium’s expiration poses a threat to many of the current benefits of the Internet for American citizens. The Internet ecosystem that has flourished under the moratorium currently provides: Affordable access to the Internet for consumers and businesses; A pathway to jobs, customers, and global commerce for citizens and “mom and pop” storeowners; A foundation for innovation in every sector of the economy, including education, health care, manufacturing, news, and entertainment; and A platform for citizen participation in civic affairs. These benefits will all be imperiled by the expiration of ITFA and the potential imposition of thousands of new state and local taxes on Internet access, which would discourage broadband adoption and investment. We therefore urge you to support H.R. 3086 and S. 1431 and bring them to the floor as soon as possible to ensure passage of the bills prior to the August recess. This would ensure that millions of consumers do not receive notifications informing them that their Internet bills may increase in November. Extending ITFA permanently will provide much-needed certainty to consumers and businesses and will preserve the benefits of Internet access for all Americans. Sincerely, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Internet Caucus ###
06.18.2014	+ SHARE Bipartisan Group Requests GAO Study on Tribal Land Communications Services June 18th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), Don Young (R-Alaska) and Tom Cole (R-Okla.) are requesting a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study on the current state of communications services on Tribal lands. A signed copy of the letter the Members sent to the GAO requesting the study can be viewed here. The following is the text of a letter: June 18, 2014 The Honorable Gene L. Dodaro, Comptroller GeneralU.S. Government Accountability Office441 G Street, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro, Since the enactment of the Communications Act of 1934, it has been our nation’s longstanding goal to ensure every American has access to basic communications services. Unfortunately, a digital divide persists in vulnerable regions and populations across our nation today, perhaps nowhere more so than on Tribal lands. More than a decade ago, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) stated, “by virtually any measure, communities on Tribal lands have historically had less access to telecommunications services than any other segment of the population.” Today, based on the most recent available data, over 30 percent of households on Tribal lands still lack basic phone service. While reliable data on broadband availability in Indian Country is virtually nonexistent, the FCC estimates that less than 10 percent of residents on Tribal lands have broadband access today. We’re deeply concerned by the lack of access to communications services in Tribal communities and the barriers this presents to education, public safety, and economic development. Although numerous federal programs exist that may indirectly provide assistance to deploy communications services on Tribal lands, a 2006 GAO study found it difficult to assess their impact. Additionally, since GAO’s 2006 inquiry into telecommunications availability on Tribal lands, federal broadband programs have undergone significant expansion and reform. We therefore request the GAO examine the current state of communications services on Tribal lands, including the following: Existing efforts at the federal, state, local, or Tribal levels to collect data on the availability of communications services on Tribal lands, including fixed and mobile broadband, wireline and wireless phone service, and radio and television broadcast service; Existing federal, state, local, or Tribal programs that promote communications infrastructure deployment and adoption, and their impact on Tribal lands; and Challenges that exist to increasing telecommunications subscribership rates for residents on Tribal lands and recommendations for addressing those barriers. We look forward to your assistance in understanding the work that remains to improve access to communications services in Indian Country. Sincerely, ###
06.13.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Review of Interconnection Agreements June 13th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement on the announcement by Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler of an agency review of interconnection agreements between broadband and content providers: “I welcome FCC Chairman Wheeler’s announcement today of an in-depth review of interconnection agreements, a key aspect of connectivity that allows the Internet to serve as the platform for innovation and investment we know today. In the midst of the net neutrality debate, it is reassuring that the Commission recognizes that net neutrality is only one aspect of the Internet ecosystem, and that in order to ensure openness and competition, the connection between broadband and content providers is equally important. This examination is a crucial first step to educate the Commission and the public about complex delivery systems for Internet traffic and ensure transparency and fairness endure even as technologies evolve and expand.” ###
06.06.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th District Winners of Congressional Art & App Competitions June 6th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—During a reception yesterday at the Community School of Music and Arts in Mountain View, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced the 18th District winners of the Congressional Art Competition and the House Student App Challenge: Angie Kang of Los Gatos High School is the 1st place winner of the 2014 Congressional Art Competition, whose piece titled “Inspiration” will be on display in the U.S. Capitol next year. Angie is also the recipient of two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with winning artists from other congressional districts across the country at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. April Chien, Claire Huang, Jolena Ma and Wings Yeung from Castilleja School are the 1st place winners of the inaugural House Student App Challenge with their app Trext, which aims to improve public safety by providing automatic location check-in for teens and parents. Trext will be on display in the U.S. Capitol next year and be featured on the U.S. House of Representatives website. “Bravo to this year’s winners of the Congressional Art Competition and the House Student App Challenge in the 18th Congressional District!” said Eshoo, who also serves as Co-Chair of the nationwide House Student App Challenge. “The competitions this year showcased great artistic talent, tech savvy, and, most importantly, enormous potential.” “Adobe is honored to join with the other sponsors and our Congressional Representatives nationwide in recognizing the creativity in our young people,” said Trevor Bailey, senior director of worldwide education. “The Congressional Art Competition promotes creativity and innovation in our students, which Adobe believes are critical aspects in education for preparing our next generation of leaders.” A YouTube video exhibiting the winning app can be viewed here, and a photo of the winning artwork can be viewed here. Photos of Rep. Eshoo with the winners of the competitions can be viewed here and here. About the Congressional Art Competition Since 1982, the Congressional Institute has hosted an annual visual art competition for high school students to recognize artistic talent throughout the nation. Attracting more than 650,000 participants nationwide each year to date, the competition calls for submissions of paintings, drawings, collages, photographs and computer-generated art. Judging in the 18th Congressional District competition is done by an independent panel of art community members. The winning artwork from each congressional district is exhibited for a full year at the U.S. Capitol. Winners receive two round-trip tickets to Washington D.C. for the annual awards ceremony and launch of the exhibition. Each district winner also receives a one-year subscription to Adobe Creative Cloud™, scholarship opportunities from the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD), and other contributions from national sponsors. The national recognition ceremony and other events related to the Congressional Arts Competition will take place on June 25-26, 2014, in Washington, D.C. About the House Student App Challenge Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all participating congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) education fields. Apps are judged based on the following criteria: quality of the idea, including creativity and originality; implementation of the idea, including user experience and design; and demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills. The winner from the 18th Congressional District, chosen by an independent panel of expert judges, will be featured on StudentAppChallenge.house.gov, and the winning app will also be on display in the U.S. Capitol, honoring the winners from across the country. ###
06.02.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on EPA Proposal to Cut Greenhouse Gas Emissions June 2nd, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposal to cut greenhouse gas emissions: “Climate change is one of the most serious issues facing our nation and our planet, and the science makes clear that greenhouse gases from human activity are the number one contributor. The EPA proposal gets to the heart of the problem by curbing harmful greenhouse gas pollution with smart policy grounded in the 1970 Clean Air Act. It will propel a U.S. clean energy economy, create jobs, and make the United States a global leader in clean energy use. Amid record drought, extreme weather, declining public health, and rising temperatures, inaction is not an option. I wholeheartedly welcome this prudent proposal.” ###
05.21.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement before FCC Oversight Hearing May 21st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, delivered the following opening statement at a Subcommittee hearing today on oversight of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC): "Before we dive into the specifics of Chairman Wheeler’s net neutrality proposal, it would be well for us to step back and appreciate what I believe is the most consequential invention in human history – dreamed of and built by disrupters – an American story and the product of American genius – the Internet. It is not only an invention – it has reshaped lives and economies here and around the globe, and our thinking and debate today should be viewed through the prism of a critical step in the 21st century. "The Internet is a continuum of change – but what’s been consistent is that it’s been open – it’s been accessible – and innovation continues – empowering individuals, entire fields of learning, growing economies and serving humanity in countless ways. "All of this and it’s only the second decade of the 21st century. "We – all of us – regulators, innovators, consumers and legislators have to get this right. The stakes are high and America cannot lose. It has been our leadership that has advanced the digital age and now is not the time – actually there should never be a time – to unravel the values that have been the bulwarks of the Internet. "So the question is how do we seize the future? "I know what I want to continue: openness – free – accessible. "I know what I don’t want: Some paying for faster lanes. Others can’t pay and they get stuck in a slow lane. Some giant company blocking content and others discriminating to sell their stuff and keep the other guy’s stymied. "This isn’t an auction to sell off the best. "I want every day to be the 4th of July in America – innovation bursting forward 10 years, 25 years, and beyond and nothing to impede this growth and economic driver for everyone. "We need smart, savvy regulatory decisions. We need a Congress that is engaged and vigilant. I certainly will be. "What should the FCC do? Is it 706 or Title II? It’s not as simple as “the answer is behind door A or B?” We need to have a clear-eyed understanding of what has made the Internet what it is today and what basic values must be adhered to so it remains vibrant for everyone.And there’s more – can anyone here today piece together the effects of a Comcast/Time Warner Cable merger and an AT&T/DirecTV merger on consumers, a free and open internet, and on robust innovation? Mr. Chairman, I urge you to convene a hearing to examine these issues. "Every person in the country will be affected by the outcome of the decisions made. "It’s not enough to say something is a value. It’s another to ensure it." ###
05.15.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statements on Proposed FCC Net Neutrality Rules and Adoption of Spectrum Auction Rules May 15th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statements regarding actions taken by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) today: On FCC’s Proposed Net Neutrality Rules: “For the third time in the past decade, the FCC today debated and proposed new net neutrality rules to keep the Internet an open platform that tests the limits of our collective imagination—including launching a business, communicating with family, or sharing ideas. “If the Internet is to continue to thrive, the proposed rules must be strong enough to prevent online gatekeepers from creating fast and slow lanes, and stand on strong legal ground to avoid yet another round of legal challenges. Tens of thousands of Internet users have weighed in leaving no doubt that this is what innovators want, what consumers want, what I want, and what should be. “In order to implement the strongest protections for an open Internet, I specifically welcome the Commission’s consideration of a stronger legal framework—Title II—that reclassifies broadband as a common carrier. “I’m committed to working with the FCC to see that a free and open Internet is preserved for generations to come.” On Adoption of Spectrum Auction Rules: "Today the FCC took an unprecedented leap forward in fulfilling Congress' vision for the world’s first voluntary incentive spectrum auction. At a time of skyrocketing wireless use, more licensed spectrum for mobile broadband means consumers will be able to stream HD video and download their favorite mobile apps faster and more reliably. At the same time, the FCC's action rightfully recognizes the importance of a nationwide block of unlicensed spectrum as a platform for new innovation, including the next generation of Wi-Fi. “I commend Chairman Wheeler for his leadership in crafting a balanced set of rules that will raise the necessary funds for FirstNet; advance new unlicensed innovation; and ensure a competitive bidding process where wireless companies of all sizes will have an opportunity to acquire the most valuable, beachfront spectrum." ###
05.14.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Blackburn Introduce Legislation to Protect Musicians' Creative Content May 14th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and House Energy and Commerce Committee Vice Chair Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.) introduced H.R. 4588, the Protecting the Rights of Musicians Act. This bipartisan legislation would condition the ability of broadcasters to opt for retransmission consent payments on whether radio stations they own pay performers for their music. “Today, broadcasters profit from airing music on AM/FM radio without compensating the creator of that music. This is patently unfair.” Eshoo said. “The Protecting the Rights of Musicians Act ensures that broadcasters who receive billions of dollars each year in retransmission consent fees for their content must also pay artists when their music is played on AM/FM stations, just as they are on Internet and satellite radio.” “This is a basic issue of modernizing the law to get rid of a dated loophole that only applies to AM/FM radio,” Blackburn said. “Internet radio pays music creators fair market value for their performances, Satellite radio pays music creators for performances, Cable and Satellite TV/radio stations pay music creators for their performances. Everyone but AM/FM radio pays.” Blackburn continued, “Broadcasters have repeatedly told us that retransmission consent payments are fair because cable and satellite stations make millions by retransmitting local broadcast content. However, when it comes to music, the same broadcasters, many who own both TV and radio stations, sing a completely different tune. This is simply an issue of fairness and I look forward to working with Congresswoman Eshoo on fixing this glaring inconsistency.” “When Kenny Rogers “The Gambler” is played on Internet radio or satellite radio, Kenny gets paid, but when it is played on AM/FM radio, he doesn’t get anything. NAB’s radio members won’t pay Kenny Rogers for his recording of The Gambler, but they demand to be paid when the TV movie of the Gambler is retransmitted. Fair pay for all creators shouldn’t be a gamble,” concluded Blackburn.” ###
05.14.2014	+ SHARE Reps. Lofgren, Massie, Eshoo & Woodall Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Bring Electric Car Recharging Stations to Federal Facilities May 14th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Thomas Massie (KY-4), Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), and Rob Woodall (GA-7) introduced bipartisan legislation today that would allow federal agencies to construct power charging stations for employees with electric vehicles at no cost to the taxpayer. The EV-COMUTE Act (Electric Vehicle Charging Offers Modern Utility Terminals for Employees Act) is modeled after an initiative at the U.S. Capitol that has proven successful for commuters with electric cars to pay a fee to use the charging stations that offsets the costs for both the construction and use of the stations. "I was surprised to learn that Members of Congress can recharge their cars when they are at the House of Representatives but my constituents who work at other federal offices are actually barred from having charging facilities at their federal workplace," said Rep. Lofgren. "I myself drive an electric car and I know they are an important part of improving efficiency and reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. There’s really no reason why government employees shouldn't be able to pay to charge their vehicles while they work and that’s what this straightforward bill does.” Rep. Massie, an MIT graduate who uses solar power at his Kentucky home and drives an electric car daily in Washington DC, said, "In my personal and public life, I consistently support an all-of-the-above energy strategy for the United States. I'm proud to cosponsor this legislation because it will expand transportation options for many Americans at no cost to taxpayers." Rep. Massie serves on both the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee and the Science, Space, and Technology Committee. “The EV-COMUTE Act takes a successful clean energy initiative in place at the U.S. Capitol and expands it to federal agencies nationwide, allowing commuters to plug in their electric vehicles at work for a small fee,” said Rep. Eshoo. “As the nation’s largest employer, the federal government should lead by example in offering workplace charging. Silicon Valley is home to thousands of electric vehicle owners, yet the more than 5,000 federal employees in my congressional district have no access to charging facilities at work because of a quirk in existing law. This legislation is a small but commonsense step in our global battle against climate change and will help keep the U.S. a leader in clean energy deployment. As the saying goes, ‘from our house to yours.’” “The free market should be guided by consumer choice, and this bipartisan legislation lifts an arbitrary restriction that currently limits transportation options for federal employees,” said Rep. Woodall. “This common sense change will expand consumer choice for thousands of Americans at zero cost to the taxpayer, and I’m excited to work with my colleagues to make it happen.” Despite the growing popularity of electric vehicles, federal employees currently don't have access to use of paid charging stations at their workplace parking facilities. In fact, agencies are currently prohibited from constructing or even entering into contracts with charging service providers under current law. The EV-COMUTE bill would allow federal agencies to construct and operate battery recharging stations in parking areas used by federal employees. Specifically, the bill would: Authorize federal agencies to maintain on a reimbursable basis a battery recharging station for the use of privately owned vehicles of federal employees and others authorized to park at federal facilities. Authorize agencies to enter into contracts with vendors to construct, operate and maintain battery recharging stations. Authorize agencies to charge appropriate fees to individuals who use the charging stations to ensure the recovery of costs incurred for the installation, construction, operation and maintenance of the stations. In 2012 Congress passed legislation similar to the EV-COMUTE with broad bipartisan support to bring electric vehicle charging stations at the U.S. Capitol for lawmakers and their staffs. Click here to read the EV-COMUTE Act. ###
04.28.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Extends House Student App Challenge Deadline for Entries April 28th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced today that the deadline for 18th Congressional District entries to the 2014 House Student App Challenge has been extended until Saturday, May 31, 2014. Eshoo, the Co-Chair of the nationwide competition, extended the deadline to maximize student participation in the competition. “Due to significant interest from 18th Congressional District high school students in the House Student App Challenge, I’ve extended the deadline for entries to ensure we maximize participation. The House Student App Challenge encourages our nation’s youths to stretch their minds and imagination to create the next best app, and it is designed to promote innovation and engagement in STEM education fields at a time when we’re facing a shortage of STEM talent. I could think of no better reason to extend the competition deadline.” About the House Student App Challenge Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM education fields. The House Student App Challenge is open to all high school students who meet one of two requirements: 1) they attend public high school in the 18th Congressional District or 2) are eligible to attend public high schools located in the 18th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the competition submission period between February 1, 2014 and May 31, 2014. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website or at http://studentappchallenge.house.gov/. ###
04.24.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Proposed FCC Net Neutrality Rules April 24th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) draft Open Internet Notice of Proposed Rulemaking: “Like many Internet users, I fear that the latest round of proposed net neutrality rules from the FCC will not do enough to curtail discrimination of Internet traffic, but rather leave the door open to discrimination under more ambiguous terms. “For me to support 'commercially reasonable' agreements between financially liquid online content companies and broadband providers for faster Internet speeds, there must be zero uncertainty left in the minds of consumers, small businesses and innovators that they are competing on a level playing field with their peers. Fundamentally, consumers and businesses must be protected from actions by online gatekeepers that threaten free speech, harm competition or diminish the continued openness of the Internet. “I will stringently evaluate the Chairman's proposal to ensure that these core values are elevated by any final net neutrality rules.” ###
04.04.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Courtney Put Local Favorites on the Line in Final Four Wager April 4th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Joe Courtney (D-Conn.) announced today the details of a friendly wager over the upcoming Final Four game between the women’s basketball teams from Stanford University and the University of Connecticut. As Members of Congress who represent the Stanford University Cardinal and the University of Connecticut Huskies, and passionate fans of their hometown teams, they are competing for bragging rights. If Stanford wins, Rep. Courtney will have to hand over a gift basket of eastern Connecticut signature treats including Munson’s Chocolates, Selbuort Valley Farms Maple Syrup, Cato Corner Cheese, Deep River Chips, Jarmoc cigars and Cottrell Beer. If Connecticut wins, Rep. Eshoo will provide Courtney with an assortment of California wines and fresh artichokes grown in her congressional district. “I’m looking forward to an epic matchup between two titan teams,” Eshoo said. “Stanford women are facing a strong, top-seeded team from Connecticut, but they’ve got the guts and grit to ‘take it to the paint’ and bring home a victory. Fear the Tree, Joe!” “UConn women’s basketball’s track record of success is unparalleled, and this year’s team is carrying on that proud tradition of excellence,” Courtney said. “Stanford has produced great teams over the years, but Coach Geno Auriemma has this group looking unstoppable. I’m predicting a UConn victory, and yet another visit to the White House for the Huskies.” ###
04.03.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces American HEALS Act April 3rd, 2014 Bill Would Reinvest in America’s Biomedical Research Initiatives WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced the American HEALS (Helping Encourage Advancements in Lifesaving Science) Act¸ legislation to expand support for future research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Department of Defense Health Program (DHP), and the Veterans Medical & Prosthetics Research Program. A companion bill was recently introduced in the Senate by Assistant Majority Leader Dick Durbin (D-Ill.). With stagnant federal investment in biomedical research threatening the standing of the U.S. as a leader in discovery, innovation and global competitiveness, Rep. Eshoo believes that an investment in biomedical research is a critical investment in our nation’s future. “Investment in biomedical research, including at the National Institutes of Health, is at unprecedented lows, jeopardizing our national health and preventing future breakthroughs,” Eshoo said. “More than half of basic research funding in the U.S. comes from the federal government, yet we spend two-thirds less on research and development than we did in 1965. A trust fund for our biomedical research agencies can reverse this dangerous trend and ensure that the United States is the leader in scientific discovery.” Background: In 2011, fifty-three percent of all funding for basic research came from the federal government, yet as a percentage of the total federal budget, the federal government spends two-thirds less on research and development today than it did in 1965. At NIH – the foremost biomedical research institute in the world – the number of research grants the agency is able to fund has declined every year over the past 10 years. The American HEALS Act would reverse that trend by augmenting federal appropriations for biomedical research with a mandatory trust fund dedicated to steady growth in research conducted at NIH, CDC, DHP, and the Veterans Medical & Prosthetics Research Program. The bill would increase funding for each agency and program every year at a rate of GDP-indexed inflation plus five percent. This steady, long-term investment would allow the agencies to plan and manage strategic growth while maximizing efficiencies. Making a serious, sustained investment in federally-funded biomedical research is especially critical as countries around the world are placing a priority on their own research investments. Between 1999 and 2009, Asia’s share of worldwide research and development expenditures grew from 24 percent to 32 percent, while American expenditures fell from 38 percent to 31 percent. In the meantime, the European Union has committed to a five-year plan to boost biomedical research. Rep. Eshoo was a leader in the effort to double the NIH’s budget in the 1990’s and supported the one-time infusion of $10 billion appropriated to the agency under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. While these increases were critical investments in research and our economy, a sustained investment will ensure continuity of research, attract more young scientists through robust grant opportunities, and bring new treatments to millions of Americans who need it most. A copy of the bill text can be found here. The American HEALS Act is supported by: Stanford UniversityAIDS Alliance for Children, Youth and FamiliesAmerican Academy of Orthopaedic SurgeonsAmerican Association of ImmunologistsAmerican Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, Inc.American Heart AssociationAmerican Lung AssociationAmerican Orthotic and Prosthetic AssociationAmerican Society of Transplantation (AST)Arthritis FoundationCommissioned Officers Association of the U.S. Public Health ServiceDigestive Disease National CoalitionDystonia Medical Research FoundationFamilies of Spinal Muscular AtrophyGBS/CIDP Foundation InternationalInterstitial Cystitis AssociationLoyola University of ChicagoLung Cancer AllianceNational Alopecia Areata FoundationNational Kidney FoundationNational Marfan FoundationNational Minority AIDS CouncilNational Rural Health AssociationNephCure FoundationNorthwestern UniversityPulmonary Hypertension AssociationScleroderma FoundationSociety for Public Health EducationSpina Bifida AssociationThe AIDS InstituteThe Endocrine SocietyUniversity Of ChicagoUniversity Of IllinoisThe YMCA ###
04.01.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Marino, Kennedy & Keating Introduce Resolution Calling for Internet Freedom in Turkey April 1st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and three key members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Reps. Tom Marino (R-Penn.), Joe Kennedy III (D-Mass.) and Bill Keating (D-Mass.), introduced a resolution today calling on the Turkish government to reinstate access for its citizens to Twitter and YouTube. “Freedom of expression and freedom of the press are foundational pillars to any functioning democracy,” Eshoo said. “Social media, such as Twitter and YouTube, has enhanced these pillars serving as transformational instruments for social policy change to billions of people who use them on a daily basis. By introducing this resolution, we stand united against actions that restrict Internet freedom in Turkey and around the world.” “In these modern times, open access to the Internet has become essential for individuals to engage in free expression,” said Marino, who serves as Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. “For this reason, the U.S. Congress must encourage our partners in Turkey to restore access to social media outlets and the Internet as a whole in order to preserve this fundamental civil right. The resolution we are introducing today will send an important message that Turkey not only must restore access to Twitter and YouTube, but more broadly protect its citizens’ rights to express themselves, assemble peacefully, and allow for a free and fair press to flourish. Today the Internet connects people all around the world, and to maintain the vibrancy of the Internet as we know it, it’s imperative that people from all nations have unfettered access.” “At the heart of any democratic system is the right of its people to speak, express, debate, and dissent,” said Kennedy. “In today’s world, Twitter and other social media outlets are critical vehicles by which millions of ordinary citizens access the political process and engage their elected officials. By restricting these basic freedoms, the Turkish government is threatening the foundation its democracy rests on.” “Countries that respect human rights and democratic values are stronger, more reliable partners. For this reason, I firmly stand by Congresswoman Eshoo and the message she is delivering to the Government of Turkey. Attempts by Prime Minister Erdogan or other Turkish government officials to diminish rule of law or quell perceived challenges to their authority by banning social media is simply unacceptable,” said Keating, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Europe, Eurasia, and Emerging Threats. “Despite an order from Turkey’s own courts to reverse the ban on Twitter, the Turkish government continues to obstruct social media outlets. Worse, it continues to ban more entities, such as YouTube, from enabling communication amongst the citizens of Turkey and the rest of the world. The Turkish government will need to do more to demonstrate the strength of its democratic institutions. Certainly, a good first step to restore the trust and faith of the Turkish population as well as the international business community will be to reverse the decision to ban social media within Turkey.” A copy of the resolution can be viewed here. ###
04.01.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Kennedy Oppose Turkish Ban on Twitter April 1st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Rep. Joe Kennedy III (D-Mass.), member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statements opposing the actions of the Turkish government with regards to reports that it blocked its citizens from accessing Twitter ahead of the country’s presidential election scheduled for Sunday: “By blocking its citizens from accessing Twitter, the Turkish government is infringing on their right to free expression and Internet freedom on social media,” Eshoo said. “Millions of people in Turkey use Twitter and other forms of social media on a daily basis to share ideas, news and their beliefs. They are tools elemental to democracy and foster political engagement. I strongly oppose the Turkish government’s restrictions on freedom of the press and stand firmly behind free expression and open use of the Internet.” “At the heart of any democratic system is the right of its people to speak, express, debate, and dissent,” said Congressman Kennedy. “In today’s world, Twitter and other social media outlets are critical vehicles by which millions of ordinary citizens access the political process and engage their elected officials. By restricting these basic freedoms, the Turkish government is threatening the foundation its democracy rests on.” ###
03.31.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Opens Inquiry into Shortfalls of Toxic Cleanup in Silicon Valley March 31st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, has opened an inquiry with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regarding a recent investigative report on the effectiveness of the Superfund program at cleanup sites in the Silicon Valley region and across the country. In a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, Eshoo is requesting more information on the extent to which the agency monitors the interstate transport and treatment of hazardous waste from Superfund sites, alternative cleanup methods, and if the agency has enough regulatory authority in this area. According to the EPA, there are 21 Superfund sites across Silicon Valley, including nine in the 18th Congressional District. The text of Rep. Eshoo’s letter follows: March 28, 2014 The Honorable Gina McCarthy, AdministratorU.S. Environmental Protection Agency1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NWWashington, D.C. 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy, I’m writing to you because I have serious concerns about the effectiveness of the Superfund program and the associated pollution that is created by the collection, transport, and treatment of toxic pollutants from Superfund sites. I represent a congressional district which is home to several Superfund sites in urban and residential areas, making this issue critically important to my constituents. I’m a strong supporter of the Superfund law and of holding accountable those who pollute our communities with highly toxic chemicals. Superfund is a core environmental statute and has been undoubtedly successful at cleaning up toxic waste sites. However, what I’m concerned about is that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is failing to properly monitor and regulate the emissions associated with remediating the toxic pollutants recovered from Superfund sites, as reported in a March 17, 2014, article from the Center for Investigative Reporting and the Guardian U.S. Of particular concern are the emissions of dioxin which is on the EPA’s “Dirty Dozen” list of dangerous chemicals and is a known carcinogen. The carbon emissions associated with collecting, transporting, and treating hazardous waste from Superfund sites are deeply troubling. I also understand that in some cases the traditional “pump and treat” method for de-contaminating groundwater may not be as effective as alternative treatment methods. To that end, I request your prompt response to the following questions: Does the EPA monitor the carbon dioxide emissions generated in the interstate transportation and treatment of hazardous waste or dioxin emissions from carbon regeneration facilities? To what extent does EPA monitoring or regulations of these emissions protect human health and the environment? Has the EPA investigated scientifically and financially feasible alternatives to the current methods being used to treat hazardous waste sites, in particular contaminated groundwater? If not, does the EPA plan to investigate such alternatives? Does the EPA have sufficient regulatory authority to monitor and control toxic pollutants generated after removal from the Superfund site, or is Congressional action necessary to grant additional authority? I thank you in advance for your cooperation and I look forward to your timely response. Most gratefully, Anna G. EshooMember of Congress ###
03.28.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Holds Federal Budget Workshop March 28th, 2014 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), joined by representatives from two nationally respected nonpartisan organizations, the Concord Coalition and Fix the Debt, today hosted a federal budget workshop at Campbell Community Center. Over 100 attendees from the 18th Congressional District worked in small groups to examine a variety of fiscal policy alternatives and, importantly, reshape how to address the nation’s debt and deficit. “Today’s workshop served as a unique opportunity for constituents to take a deep dive making top calls on federal budget priorities and where to cut,” Eshoo said. “The exercise placed everything on the table and put citizens in the driver’s seat to make the decisions.” “The Principles and Priorities exercise is so popular and valuable because it really allows constituents to understand the choices and tradeoffs required for a more responsible fiscal policy,” said Josh Gordon, Policy Director for the Concord Coalition. “It also shows that constituents are willing and able to compromise with each other and make those hard choices. That is an important message for Members of Congress and policymakers in Washington, D.C.” “It was a pleasure for Fix the Debt to join with Congresswoman Eshoo and the Concord Coalition today in California to talk about the national debt. The participants had open and honest discussions about our debt challenge and found a lot of common ground on how to solve it—exactly the type of discourse we hope to see happen back in Washington D.C.,” said Jason Peuquet, research fellow at the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. The workshop comes on the heels of a bipartisan budget bill passed by Congress in December, a Treasury Department announcement of a sharp drop in the federal deficit last month, and the unveiling of President Obama’s budget this month. The budget bill passed by Congress in December cuts the deficit by $23 billion over the next ten years and funds domestic and military needs. Regarding the decline in the deficit, the Treasury Department’s announcement in February indicated the deficit for 2013 dropped to $680 billion, from approximately $1.1 trillion the previous year, the largest decrease since the end of World War II. ###
03.26.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Congratulates Palo Alto Winners of C-SPAN's National 2014 StudentCam Competition March 26th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a statement today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) congratulated Zoe Dooley, Lauren Aalami and Madeleine Hare, eighth graders at Jordan Middle School in Palo Alto, Calif., who will receive $250 for their honorable mention documentary, “Veterans Health,” in C-SPAN’s national 2014 StudentCam competition. “Zoe, Lauren and Madeleine, along with thousands of other students across the country, have demonstrated through film their passion for and dedication to shaping the direction of our nation’s public policy,” Eshoo said. “Whether it’s highlighting lapses in care for veterans returning from defending our country or advocating for more access to quality education, it’s clear that young people have a powerful voice and they should be recognized for it. I congratulate Zoe, Lauren and Madeleine for their hard work and shedding light on a critical issue affecting millions of our fellow Americans.” The national competition is now in its tenth year and invites middle school (grades 6-8) and high school students (grades 9-12) to produce a five to seven minute documentary on a national policy issue. This year, students were asked to answer the question, “What’s the most important issue the U.S. Congress should consider in 2014?” In response, C-SPAN received 2,355 video submissions from more than 4,800 students in 46 states and Washington, D.C. The winning students are among 328 students nationwide winning a total of $100,000 including one Grand Prize winner, four First Prize winners, 16 Second Prize winners, 32 Third Prize winners, and 97 Honorable Mentions. The 150 winning videos may be viewed at http://www.studentcam.org/winners14.htm. ###
03.18.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on NTIA's Announcement to Transition IANA Functions March 18th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration announcement to transition key Internet domain name functions to the global multistakeholder community: “Multistakeholder governance of the Internet is essential to preserving a global Internet driven by choice, competition and innovation, and making it a revolutionary tool for commerce and freedom of expression. I’ve long held the belief and championed the U.S. support for the successful multistakeholder model for Internet governance. “I welcome the announcement by the National Telecommunications and Information Administration to transition from its role in coordinating the Internet’s domain name system to a multistakeholder governance community, guided by the principles of an open, secure, stable and resilient Internet.” ###
03.14.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes Hijacked Medicare Improvement Bill March 14th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement in opposition to H.R. 4015, the SGR Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act of 2014. The legislation to reform the outdated Medicare payment methodology, known as the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), was authored and agreed to on a bipartisan basis by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, the House Ways and Means Committee, and the Senate Finance Committee. Ahead of consideration by the full House, this rare demonstration of bicameral bipartisanship was hijacked by House Republicans with an amendment that delays implementation of the Affordable Care Act: “Medicare has been highly successful in providing seniors and the disabled with health care security every day, and improvements can always be made. With an innovative, permanent fix to the outdated Sustainable Growth Rate system, doctors can focus on providing quality care to their Medicare patients rather than focusing on reimbursements. “Paying for these improvements to the Medicare payment system by delaying the individual shared responsibility provision of the Affordable Care Act is the equivalent to robbing Peter to pay Paul. It unnecessarily robs millions of Americans of affordable, quality health insurance while awarding House Republicans still looking to repeal the Affordable Care Act with the ‘Political Brinksmanship of the Year Award.’ “I support permanently replacing the Sustainable Growth Rate to pay doctors for Medicare services, but not at the expense of the lawful right of Americans to comprehensive health insurance.” ###
03.10.2014	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Waxman, Pelosi Release New GAO Report on Federal Broadband Deployment Programs and Small Business March 10th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo, Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, and Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi today released a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report showing that small businesses operating in areas with federally-funded broadband networks experienced higher quality networks at lower costs, faster and more reliable connections, as well as improved efficiency and streamlined operations through the use of bandwidth-intensive services like video-conferencing and teleworking. The report examined broadband programs funded through the Recovery Act and other federal programs such as the Community Connect Grants, the Connect America Fund, and the Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan Guarantee programs. “This GAO report confirms that when it comes to closing our digital divide, federal investment in broadband deployment has been pivotal to the success of America’s small businesses,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Affordable broadband access allows small businesses to operate more efficiently, retain a talented workforce, and improve services to their customers. Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy, and when they thrive, our economy thrives.” “GAO’s investigation confirms the success of the Recovery Act’s broadband programs," said Rep. Waxman. “In rural and urban areas across the country, small businesses are benefitting from higher speeds and lower prices thanks to federal investment in this essential infrastructure. Expanding broadband access and quality is critical for American competiveness in the 21st century global economy. These were public dollars well spent.” “In the information economy, high speed internet access is essential to creating jobs and unleashing the full potential of our small businesses. Democrats have long recognized this fact, and our 2007 Innovation Agenda pointed the way for communities nationwide. Our investments in our broadband infrastructure have not just delivered quicker, cheaper, more reliable service, they have opened new economic opportunity for businesses and people,” said Leader Pelosi. “Rebuilding America’s infrastructure creates jobs today, and lays the foundation for a stronger, more prosperous tomorrow. Today, GAO has highlighted exciting success stories—that can and must be replicated and expanded across America.” The report is available online here. ###
03.05.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Data Center Efficiency Legislation Passes House March 5th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement on House passage of her bipartisan legislation to increase efficiency at federal data centers. The legislation passed as part of a larger energy efficiency measure, the Energy Efficiency Improvement Act of 2014. “Today, the world generates more data in two days than has been generated in all of human history prior to 2003,” Eshoo said. “This data must be stored and processed at vast data centers which are highly energy inefficient, wasting money and precious energy resources. My legislation will save the federal government energy and money by requiring the use of energy-efficient and energy-saving technologies, specifically in federal data centers. I’m very pleased to see this important policy pass, and I look forward to its swift consideration in the Senate.” Background In late 2012, the New York Times reported that “data centers can waste 90 percent or more of the electricity they pull off the grid,” running their facilities at maximum capacity around the clock out of fear of a surge in demand that could crash the system. As the nation’s largest landowner, employer, and energy user, Eshoo’s data center legislation makes the federal government a leader in improving the energy efficiency of its data centers. Federal data centers make up 10 percent of all U.S. data center energy use, which translated to an estimated $600 million in energy costs in 2010 alone, the last year for which data is available. The Natural Resources Defense Council estimates that implementation of new technologies and best practices could reduce the government’s data center energy bill by 50 percent or more, saving the taxpayers $300 million annually. The rising importance of data centers in the everyday lives of Americans often goes unnoticed, but data centers now consume an estimated 2 percent of all electricity in the United States. Over the last decade, data center energy use has quadrupled and will continue to grow as we become increasingly tied to the digital world. Specifically, the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act would: Require federal agencies to coordinate with Office of Management and Budget in developing plans to purchase and use more energy efficient technologies, including periodic evaluation of federal data centers for energy efficiency. Require an update to a 2007 Report to Congress originally requested by Rep. Eshoo that has formed the baseline for data center energy efficiency since its release, but is in need of an update. Create an Open Data Initiative for the purpose of making information on federal data center energy usage available to innovators. This legislation will not increase government spending. Instead, it has the potential to save taxpayers over a billion dollars in reduced energy costs in the future, while setting an example for the private sector to reduce energy usage at data centers. According to the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy, measures to increase federal data center efficiency could save $1.64 billion over the next 15 years. ###
03.04.2014	+ SHARE Whitehouse, Eshoo, Lance Applaud Development Of Pancreatic Cancer Research Framework March 4th, 2014 WHITEHOUSE, ESHOO, LANCE APPLAUD DEVELOPMENT OF PANCREATIC CANCER RESEARCH FRAMEWORK Requirement Set Forth in Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act of 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Friday, the National Cancer Institute announced a scientific framework for advancing research on pancreatic cancer, as directed under the Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act of 2012. Today, U.S. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) and U.S. Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) – the authors of that legislation – are joining Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions (HELP) Committee Chairman Tom Harkin in welcoming the framework. “Too many lives have been cut short by pancreatic cancer, which remains difficult both to detect and to treat,” said Whitehouse. “This step forward will give new hope to those facing this terrible disease. I am grateful to the tireless cancer awareness advocates whose steadfastness helped turn this idea into law.” “For too many Americans, recalcitrant cancers are a death sentence, which is why I worked for six years with Senator Whitehouse and Rep. Lance to enact a meaningful law that can reverse this trend,” said Eshoo. “I commend the National Cancer Institute for releasing the scientific framework on pancreatic cancer. It’s an important step toward the day when there are more recalcitrant cancer survivors than there are victims.” “Today’s announcement by the National Cancer Institute is another show of progress in combating this terrible disease,” said Lance. “This framework will lay the groundwork for improved treatment methods and greater coordination in our research efforts. We owe this progress to the advocates. Their passion is often driven by the care of loved ones and their personal stories are profiles in courage.” “Each year, tens of thousands of Americans are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and those numbers have steadily increased for more than a decade. One of the best ways we can fight this terrible disease is through strong investments in medical research,” Harkin said. “The announcement by the National Cancer Institute highlights both the progress that has been made in understanding this deadly cancer and the promise of ongoing research. I look forward to learning more about this critical progress as NIH continues to support this vital research.” “We applaud the National Cancer Institute and Dr. Varmus for releasing this crucial report. It provides specific recommendations that when fully implemented will advance national efforts to improve pancreatic cancer patient outcomes,” stated Julie Fleshman, president and CEO for the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. “We look forward to working with the NCI, our colleagues in the pancreatic cancer community and Congress to implement the recommendations and ensure that the final action plan includes all of the provisions of the statute.” The Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act directs the National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health, to work with federal and non-federal representatives to develop scientific frameworks for assessing and advancing research on cancers with five-year survival rates below 50 percent. These frameworks will help to identify scientific advancements, evaluate the sufficiency of researchers, and outline a plan for ongoing research. Advancements in the diagnosis and treatment of so-called recalcitrant cancers, such as cancer of the pancreas, lung, liver, or ovaries, have lagged behind the overall gains made in fighting the disease in recent years. The National Cancer Institute’s framework is available here. ###
02.24.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches 2014 Congressional Art Competition in California's 18th District February 24th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today this year's district-wide Congressional Art Competition to discover and celebrate talented high school artists and their work. "For more than 30 years, the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged artistic talent among our youth," Rep. Eshoo said. "I'm proud to keep this tradition flourishing by launching this year's competition in California's 18th Congressional District." About the Competition All high school students from throughout the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate and exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students can participate by submitting their works of art to Rep. Eshoo's Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by 5 p.m. PST on Friday, April 11th. A local reception will be held to announce the winner and honor all participants. The winning artist’s work will be chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists and the winner will enjoy the distinction of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of our nation's Capitol for one year. He or she will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with other talented young artists at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found here on Rep. Eshoo's website. ###
02.24.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Retirement of Rep. John Dingell February 24th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement on the announcement by Rep. John Dingell (MI-12) on his retirement from Congress: “John Dingell is a legend in the Congress and a national treasure. His body of legislative achievements will continue to be seen and experienced by every American for generations to come. From protecting the environment, to promoting civil and worker rights, Congressman Dingell's legislative hand has shaped it. He famously introduced health care legislation in 1955, and in every Congress since then to provide affordable, accessible care for every American. “Congressman Dingell's service and legislation is unmatched in the history of our country, and it has been a great honor to serve with him. I wish him and Debbie my full wishes for every blessing.” ###
02.21.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Hosts Forum On Women’s Economic Agenda February 21st, 2014 PALO ALTO, CA—In conjunction with the American Association of University Women (AAUW) of California and the AAUW San Jose Branch, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) hosted a forum today at San Jose City College on a new economic agenda for women: When Women Succeed, America Succeeds. The forum highlighted two women from California’s 18th Congressional District, who shared their personal stories of hardship and the challenges they face when it comes to economic security for them and their families. “It’s a fact of life for millions of women in our country and right here in California’s 18th Congressional District that women do equal work for less pay. They justifiably struggle with work and family balance, and have limited options when it comes to affordable, high quality child care,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Their grit and perseverance, their ingenuity and inventiveness have helped strengthen our country and raise families. I know we can do better, and it is why I’m committed to passing legislation in Congress to meet the goals of a women’s economic agenda. By advancing these issues and the women’s economic agenda as a whole, we can ensure the future of America’s families, the growth of America’s economy, and the strengthening of the middle class.” The Facts Are Staggering: • Women continue to earn less than men. Women make only 77 cents for every dollar a man makes; a pay gap exists even the first year out of college and continues through a woman’s life. • Women account for nearly two-thirds of minimum wage workers. • The poverty rate—14.5 percent for women—remains the highest in two decades. • Family and medical leave protections fail to cover nearly half of full-time employees. • Women-owned businesses continue to lag behind male-owned businesses. The average revenue of women-owned businesses is only 27 percent of the average revenue of male-owned businesses. The Solution: When Women Succeed. America Succeeds The When Women Succeed, America Succeeds economic agenda will enable women to achieve greater economic security, raise wages for women and their families, and allow working parents to support and care for their families. It addresses the need to ensure that women get equal pay for equal work. It helps ensure work and family balance by allowing working parents to support their families and care for their children. It recognizes that expanding educational opportunities, increased job training, and investments in women entrepreneurs are essential for women’s success in our economy. The following are the policies included in this agenda in the areas of pay, work and family balance, and child care: Pay • Paycheck Fairness • Increased Minimum Wage • Invest in Job Training and Education Opportunies • Protect and Restore Employment Rights • Support Women Entrepreneurs/Small Businesses • Pregnant Workers Fairness • Adequate Tools to Investigate Wage Discrimination Work & Family Balance • Paid Sick Leave • Paid Family and Medical Leave • Expanded Family and Medical Leave • Federal Employees Paid Parental Leave Child Care • President Obama’s Preschool and Early Head Start/Child Care Initiative • Promote Affordable and High Quality Child Care • Adequate Funding of Child Care Programs • Adequate Training and Pay for Child Care Workers • Expand Child Care Tax Credit • Make Child Tax Credit Permanent and Indexed • Increase Access to Child Support ###
02.21.2014	+ SHARE Silicon Valley Congressional Delegation Seek Answers from DHS on Metcalf Attack February 21st, 2014 WASHINGTON, DC– Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) released a letter today to Jeh Johnson, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), regarding the attack on PG&E’s Metcalf power substation. The three Silicon Valley Representatives have been closely monitoring investigations since the aftermath of the attack. In the letter, they seek an update from DHS on its investigation and recommendations the agency has developed following the incident. The following is the full text of the letter, which can also be viewed by clicking here: February 20, 2014 The Honorable Jeh Johnson, Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Nebraska Avenue Complex 3801 Nebraska Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson, We’re writing with regard to last year’s attack on PG&E’s Metcalf transmission substation in Silicon Valley. This was a very serious incident that clearly demonstrated the threat to, and the vulnerability of our physical infrastructure. As Members of Congress who represent Silicon Valley, we have a strong interest in ensuring the security of our region’s critical infrastructure as well as in preventing similar attacks from occurring elsewhere. Although the damage from the Metcalf incident was largely contained, the potential for a catastrophic attack impacting both our electric grid and communications infrastructure is evident. As we understand it, rolling blackouts throughout our region were narrowly averted. The Metcalf attack, while sophisticated, was relatively small. A larger attack is not difficult to imagine and the effects could be crippling. Many of our critical national security assets are dependent on a secure and reliable electric grid, as are the families and businesses in our districts. In fact, the San Francisco Bay Area has the nation’s highest GDP per capita and would rank just behind Switzerland (19th) as a national economy. The region contains more Fortune 500 companies than any other U.S. region aside from New York; has the highest level of patent generation in the country; and has an economic productivity almost twice the national average. A successfully executed attack on our local infrastructure would impact not only our region, but our country as a whole. We respectfully request a summary of DHS’s work in responding to the Metcalf incident to date, including: 1) Initial emergency response; 2) Post-incident work (internally and/or with other agencies or private entities) related to improving processes for critical infrastructure protection, emergency mitigation, coordination with other authorities and stakeholders; 3) Any improvements already identified (internally and/or with other agencies or private entities) and status of improvements; 4) Recommendations for additional improvements (internally or with other agencies or private entities); 5) Guidance as to whether Congressional action may be useful/necessary in streamlining agency processes and improving efficiency. We thank you in advance for your cooperation and respectfully request a response by Friday, March 14, 2014. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Mike Honda (CA-17) # # #
02.21.2014	+ SHARE Silicon Valley Congressional Delegation Seek Answers from DHS on Metcalf Attack February 21st, 2014 WASHINGTON, DC– Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) released a letter today to Jeh Johnson, the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), regarding the attack on PG&E’s Metcalf power substation. The three Silicon Valley Representatives have been closely monitoring investigations since the aftermath of the attack. In the letter, they seek an update from DHS on its investigation and recommendations the agency has developed following the incident. The following is the full text of the letter, which can also be viewed by clicking here: February 20, 2014 The Honorable Jeh Johnson, SecretaryU.S. Department of Homeland SecurityNebraska Avenue Complex3801 Nebraska Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson, We’re writing with regard to last year’s attack on PG&E’s Metcalf transmission substation in Silicon Valley. This was a very serious incident that clearly demonstrated the threat to, and the vulnerability of our physical infrastructure. As Members of Congress who represent Silicon Valley, we have a strong interest in ensuring the security of our region’s critical infrastructure as well as in preventing similar attacks from occurring elsewhere. Although the damage from the Metcalf incident was largely contained, the potential for a catastrophic attack impacting both our electric grid and communications infrastructure is evident. As we understand it, rolling blackouts throughout our region were narrowly averted. The Metcalf attack, while sophisticated, was relatively small. A larger attack is not difficult to imagine and the effects could be crippling. Many of our critical national security assets are dependent on a secure and reliable electric grid, as are the families and businesses in our districts. In fact, the San Francisco Bay Area has the nation’s highest GDP per capita and would rank just behind Switzerland (19th) as a national economy. The region contains more Fortune 500 companies than any other U.S. region aside from New York; has the highest level of patent generation in the country; and has an economic productivity almost twice the national average. A successfully executed attack on our local infrastructure would impact not only our region, but our country as a whole. We respectfully request a summary of DHS’s work in responding to the Metcalf incident to date, including: 1) Initial emergency response; 2) Post-incident work (internally and/or with other agencies or private entities) related to improving processes for critical infrastructure protection, emergency mitigation, coordination with other authorities and stakeholders; 3) Any improvements already identified (internally and/or with other agencies or private entities) and status of improvements; 4) Recommendations for additional improvements (internally or with other agencies or private entities); 5) Guidance as to whether Congressional action may be useful/necessary in streamlining agency processes and improving efficiency. We thank you in advance for your cooperation and respectfully request a response by Friday, March 14, 2014. Sincerely, Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Mike Honda (CA-17) # # #
02.20.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo, Shimkus Applaud FCC Efforts to Improve Wireless E-9-1-1 Location Accuracy February 20th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Co-Chairs of the Next Gen 9-1-1 Caucus, Reps. John Shimkus (R-Ill.) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), today applauded the Federal Communication Commission (FCC) for voting in favor of proposed standards for wireless providers to ensure accurate caller location information is automatically provided to public safety officials for indoor as well as outdoor wireless calls to 9-1-1 call centers. “We’ve made great progress on improving location reporting for outdoor wireless calls to 9-1-1,” Shimkus said. “Setting standards for indoor location accuracy is the next logical step as more and more Americans rely on their mobile phones in emergencies. I’m pleased to see the FCC agrees.” “By some estimates, 70 percent of 9-1-1 calls today are placed from wireless phones, demonstrating the powerful effect mobile technology has had on public safety,” said Eshoo, who also serves as Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “Yet, when these calls are made from indoors, first responders still have difficulty obtaining accurate location information. If their smartphone app can pinpoint their location almost instantaneously, consumers rightfully expect our first responders should be able to do the same in an emergency. I welcome the newly approved FCC benchmark for 9-1-1 call location accuracy as it takes public safety a step further toward that goal.” Reps. Shimkus and Eshoo sent a letter to the FCC on January 15th requesting the Commission do more to ensure first responders have the necessary information to locate calls made to 9-1-1 call centers from indoor locations. ###
02.19.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Net Neutrality Proposal February 19th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement on Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler’s proposal to reinstate net neutrality protections after they were struck down by the D.C. Circuit Court earlier this year: “Using the FCC’s clear authority, as recognized by the D.C. Circuit Court, today Chairman Wheeler has proposed a series of actions that put consumers back in the driver’s seat when it comes to their online experience. The proposed FCC actions would enhance transparency for consumers so they know if and when their Internet service provider is slowing down or blocking online content, and include a commitment to restore the protections of the no-blocking and non-discrimination rules. Furthermore, the proposal aims to enhance broadband competition by reducing barriers to municipality-built broadband networks. “I wholeheartedly welcome Chairman Wheeler’s proposed actions to preserve a free and open Internet, and I look forward to seeing these important steps implemented.” Rep. Eshoo is a co-author of legislation with Rep. Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) to restore Open Internet Rules until the FCC takes new, final action in the Open Internet proceeding. Senator Ed Markey sponsors the Senate companion bill. ###
02.11.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Plan to Rehabilitate Historic Hangar One and Maintain Moffett Airfield as a Federal Facility February 11th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) released the following statement after NASA and the Government Services Administration (GSA) announced the selection of Planetary Ventures, LLC as the preferred lessee to rehabilitate and restore Hangar One, and to manage Moffett Federal Airfield. The airfield is currently managed by NASA Ames Research Center. Hangar One has been saved and will be restored and rehabilitated for the future. Instead of excessing Moffett Federal Airfield, it will remain a federal facility, managed under a public-private partnership and with NASA Ames no longer operating the field. The announcement follows an extensive and competitive bid process that began in March 2013 after Rep. Eshoo successfully argued against an effort of the federal government to excess Moffett Federal Airfield. Rep. Eshoo’s statement: “Constructed in 1932, the historic Hangar One has long been a landmark in what is now Silicon Valley, and Moffett Federal Airfield has and will continue to play a critical role as home to the 129th Rescue Wing. “With GSA and NASA’s announcement today, Hangar One has been saved and will be restored and rehabilitated, honoring its place in South Bay history and community identity today. Moffett Federal Airfield will remain a federal airfield under a public-private partnership. By eliminating NASA Ames operating and maintenance costs for Moffett Federal Airfield, taxpayer dollars will be saved. “I’m deeply grateful for the extensive support from community advocates and leaders, as well as the professionalism of GSA, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus for the Navy’s role in de-skinning and the cleanup of toxic sites surrounding Hangar One, and the commitments from NASA to bring us to this day. I am also grateful for the solid support of my colleagues in the California Congressional Delegation, most especially that of Leader Nancy Pelosi, to save Hangar One and to keep Moffett Airfield a federal facility.” ###
02.04.2014	+ SHARE Reps. Thompson, Eshoo Introduce Legislation to Make Health Insurance More Affordable For Families In High Cost Areas February 4th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Reps. Mike Thompson (CA-5) and Anna Eshoo (CA-18) today introduced H.R. 3986, the Fair Access to Health Care Act. The legislation would expand the eligibility for premium tax credits for people living in high-cost areas who purchase health insurance through the federal and state exchanges set up by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “A middle class income means different things in different parts of the country,” said Thompson.“In some California cities, the cost of living is far higher than the national average. Because of the across-the-board income thresholds set by the ACA, some hard working families in high-cost areas like ours don’t qualify for subsides and therefore can’t get affordable insurance. This bill will help make affordable health insurance a reality, no matter where someone lives.” “The Affordable Care Act is helping low to middle-income Americans buy private health insurance with subsidies adjusted to their income level,”said Eshoo. “While this is tremendously helpful to millions of individuals and families, there are others in high-cost areas, like those in my home district of Silicon Valley, who cannot benefit because the threshold to qualify for subsidies does not account for the cost of living. The Fair Access to Health Act ties health insurance subsidies to the cost of living of a geographic area instead of to the national federal poverty level. In doing so, we can expand access to health insurance and improve our nation’s health.” Currently the ACA allows those making between 138 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) to qualify for premium tax credits to help them purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. At this level, an individual making up to $45,960 and a family of four making up to $94,200 qualify for premium tax credits. However, the income threshold used to determine eligibility for these tax credits doesn’t take into account the cost of living for different geographic areas. A family living in New York City or San Francisco is treated the same as a family living in a small town in South Carolina or Texas. The Fair Access to Health Care Act would allow the premium tax credits offered through the ACA to be increased proportionally based on an area’s cost of living. Under the bill, the federal poverty level threshold will increase proportionally based on an area’s cost of living above the national average cost-of-living. The cost-of-living is determined using the Census Bureau’s Supplemental Poverty Measure (SPM). For example, using this calculation: In the San Francisco-Oakland-Freemont, California Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), a family of four earning up to $125,757 and individuals earning up to $61,356 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. In the Vallejo-Fairfield, CA MSA, a family of four earning up to $109,743 and an individual earning up to $53,543 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. In the Napa, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $116,808 and individuals earning up to$56,990 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. In the Santa Rosa-Petaluma, CA MSA a family of four earning up to $113,746 and individuals earning up to $55,496 could qualify for premium tax credits to purchase health insurance through the ACA’s exchanges. Precedent already exists in the ACA for such cost-of-living adjustments. The ACA accounts for the cost-of-living differences in Alaska and Hawaii by using a higher income threshold to determine subsidy eligibility. The Fair Access to Health Care Act would provide similar adjustments to the other 48 states. Individuals and families from low-cost geographical areas will not be impacted by this legislation. Those earning up to 400 percent of the FPL would still be eligible for subsides and no region would see a reduction from their current subsidy level. ###
02.03.2014	+ SHARE Democratic Leaders Introduce Net Neutrality Legislation February 3rd, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Reps. Henry A. Waxman and Anna G. Eshoo introduced H.R. 3982, the Open Internet Preservation Act, with a Senate companion bill to be introduced by Sen. Ed Markey, to protect consumers and innovation online. Last month, the D.C. Circuit struck down the Federal Communications Commission's Open Internet rules preventing broadband providers from blocking or discriminating against content online. The bill would restore these rules until the FCC takes new, final action in the Open Internet proceeding. Original co-sponsors of the bills are: Reps. Waxman, Eshoo, Frank Pallone, Jr., Doris Matsui, Mike Doyle, Zoe Lofgren, Jan Schakowsky, Michael E. Capuano, and Suzan DelBene and Sens. Markey, Richard Blumenthal, Al Franken, Tom Udall, Ron Wyden, and Jeff Merkley. “The Internet is an engine of economic growth because it has always been an open platform for competition and innovation,” said Rep. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Our bill very simply ensures that consumers can continue to access the content and applications of their choosing online. The FCC can and must quickly exercise the authorities the D.C. Circuit recognized to reinstate the Open Internet rules. Our bill makes clear that consumers and innovators will be protected in the interim.” “With the recent D.C. Circuit appeals court ruling, the open Internet as we know it suffered a blow. By striking down rules that prevented broadband providers from discriminating against or even blocking online content, the Court’s decision threatens the openness and freedom that has defined the success of the Internet. Although the Court struck down the FCC’s ‘no-blocking’ and ‘nondiscrimination’ rules, it explicitly affirmed the agency’s authority to oversee broadband services in the United States,” said Rep. Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “I’m introducing legislation today to reinstate the FCC’s open Internet rules until the Commission adopts replacement rules. This bill ensures that consumers, not their Internet service provider, are in the driver’s seat when it comes to their online experience. The free and open Internet has been a pillar of our country’s growing economy, unparalleled technological innovation, and even global social movements. It is the backbone of our digital world, and I intend to keep it that way.” “The open nature of the Internet has made it the most successful commercial and communications medium in history,” said Sen. Markey, a member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “The Internet’s vitality and openness drives competition, innovation and job creation and we need to ensure it remains a level playing field for consumers and innovators in the wake of the D.C. Circuit Court decision. This bill ensures consumers are protected until the FCC uses its clear authority, as recognized by the court, to put in place replacement rules. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this important legislation forward.” “Keeping the Internet free from gatekeeper control is essential to ensuring consumers have access to the content, websites and services of their choice,” said Sen. Blumenthal, member of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. “Until the D.C. Circuit Court’s recent decision, broadband companies had been barred from blocking content they dislike or holding innovative new services hostage for higher and higher tolls. This bill would reinstate principles of choice and freedom on the Internet and protect consumers and entrepreneurs.” “The Internet is an open marketplace where everyone can participate on equal footing,” said Sen. Franken, Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law. “And that’s the way it should be—the website of a Minnesota small business should load as quickly as the website of a large corporation. However, the FCC's rules for net neutrality were struck down last month. I immediately wrote to the FCC to press for swift action to preserve open and equal access to the Internet. This legislation is an important part of that effort.” “The D.C. Circuit decision threatens network neutrality standards that preserve free speech, promote innovation, and help Internet entrepreneurs compete on a level playing field with established companies,” said Sen. Udall, chair of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations subcommittee. “Our legislation would restore the open Internet rules gutted by the court order and protect the open Internet we enjoy today until the FCC is able to address the issue. I urge Congress to hold a vote on our bill as soon as possible. And ultimately, I encourage the FCC to use its existing authority to ensure that the Internet continues to be an open platform for all.” The full text of the bill is available online here. A bill summary is available online here. ###
02.03.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Vote to Approve IP-Transition Framework February 3rd, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved a new framework for the ongoing transition to Internet protocol (IP) communications networks: “The transition to Internet protocol is an evolution in wired communications networks, creating new ways of delivering a familiar service: a phone call. For over a decade, communications companies have been making the transition to IP, and yet the guiding principles that have helped pave the way for greater competition and innovation remain the same. “I welcome the FCC’s introduction of a framework to maintain those guiding principles—public safety, universal access, competition and consumer protection—as America’s communications companies transition to IP networks. Investments in innovation are essential in our digital world, and this framework keeps us on a responsible path forward.” ###
02.03.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo to Seek Top Slot at Energy and Commerce Committee February 3rd, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “Last week, Representative Henry Waxman, the Ranking Member and former Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced he would retire at the end of this Congress after 40 years of extraordinary service to his constituents and our country. “Since then I have received the encouragement of members of the Committee and the Caucus to seek this position. “Today, I am announcing my decision to seek the top slot at Energy and Commerce. I do so with great enthusiasm because it is the ‘Committee of the Future’ and the most dynamic by its jurisdictions. It is key to shaping America’s future, just as my Silicon Valley congressional district is. “I look forward to communicating with my colleagues in the weeks ahead to share my vision and hear theirs. We have the depth and the talent to shape policies that will build a strong economy for every American, with an innovative and entrepreneurial approach to advanced research, communications, technology, health care, energy and the environment. “It is because of this far-reaching opportunity to put America in the best position to compete globally that I seek this position.” ###
01.31.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Kicks Off First Annual Congressional Student App Challenge January 31st, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, announced today the launch of the first annual congressional science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic competition, the House Student App Challenge, for the 18th Congressional District. Eshoo is also Co-Chair of the nationwide competition with Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.). Established by the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, this competition is part of a nationwide event that invites high school students from all congressional districts to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is designed to promote innovation and engagement in the STEM education fields. “This is an extraordinary opportunity for students in our congressional district, and I’m excited about helping to foster their interest in science, technology, engineering and math education,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The next decade is estimated to create approximately 8.5 million STEM job opportunities, but during the same time it is also estimated that the U.S. will face a shortage of 1 million STEM graduates. The House Student App Challenge seeks to address this challenge by encouraging students to create their own app and pursue an education in STEM fields.” The House Student App Challenge is open to all high school students who meet one of two requirements: 1) they attend public high school in the 18th Congressional District or 2) are eligible to attend public high schools located in the 18th Congressional District. Students entering the competition must provide a YouTube or VIMEO video demo explaining their app and what they learned through the competition process during the competition submission period between February 1, 2014 and April 30, 2014. More details on submitting a contest entry, the rules of the competition, and helpful programming resources can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website or at http://studentappchallenge.house.gov/ ###
01.30.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Retirement of Congressman Henry Waxman January 30th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement after Rep. Henry A. Waxman (CA-33) announced he will not seek re-election this year: “Over his four decades in Congress, Congressman Henry Waxman has authored some of the most consequential legislation for our country. His accomplishments are legendary and range widely from clean air to advancing AIDS research, and investigating tobacco-industry marketing practices. “Congressman Waxman is unrelenting, incorruptible and a true reformer. It’s been an honor to work with him and have his friendship as a fellow Californian. Henry Waxman leaves a prolific legacy for the American people, and I wish him and Janet every blessing in the years ahead.” ###
01.27.2014	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo & Connolly Unveil Draft Federal IT Procurement Reform Bill January 27th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Two outspoken advocates for IT procurement reform, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Rep. Gerry Connolly (VA-11), Ranking Member of the Oversight and Government Reform Subcommittee that oversees federal IT and procurement policy, unveiled draft legislation today to overhaul how the federal government develops mission-critical IT systems. Eshoo and Connolly’s proposed legislation would create a new high-level office in the White House to review and guide major IT projects before they get off track, and instead lead to successful outcomes for taxpayers. The bill would also increase opportunities for small, innovative businesses to compete for federal IT contracts. “Studies show that 94 percent of major government IT projects between 2003 and 2012 came in over budget, behind schedule, or failed completely. In an $80 billion sector of our federal government’s budget, this is an absolutely unacceptable waste of taxpayer dollars,” said Eshoo, whose congressional district is home to Silicon Valley. “Furthermore, thousands of pages of procurement regulations discourage small innovative businesses from even attempting to navigate the rules.” “Our draft bill puts proven best practices to work by instituting a White House office of IT procurement and gives all American innovators a fair shake at competing for valuable federal IT contracts by lowering the burden of entry,” Eshoo concluded. “In the 21st century, effective governance is inextricably linked with how well government leverages technology to serve its citizens,” said Connolly, who is also a co-author of complementary bipartisan legislation seeking to enhance the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996. “Despite incremental improvements in federal IT management over the years, the bottom line is that large-scale federal IT program failures continue to waste taxpayers’ dollars, while jeopardizing our Nation’s ability to carry out fundamental constitutional responsibilities, from conducting a census to securing our borders.” “Our RFP-IT discussion draft recognizes that transforming how the federal government procures critical IT assets will likely require bolstering ongoing efforts to comprehensively strengthen general federal IT management practices with targeted enhancements that promote innovative and bold procurement strategies from the White House on down,” Connolly said. Background Federal contract procurement reform has been on the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) high-risk list in some form since the early 1990s. The federal government spends $80 billion annually on just IT, with some industry experts estimating that as much as 70 percent of new federal IT acquisitions fail or fall behind schedule. The estimated cost to taxpayers of these failed IT projects is as high as $20 billion annually. Federal procurement regulation (called the Federal Acquisition Regulation or FAR) is 1,900 pages long, with each agency having a “supplement” that can be an additional 1,000 pages. This rewards incumbent companies familiar with the rules, not smaller, up-and-coming innovators. The Reforming Federal Procurement of Information Technology (RFP-IT) Act The RFP-IT Act, paid for by repurposing a surplus of fees collected by the Government Services Administration, would: 1. Create a new office within the Executive Office of the President to review major IT projects before they begin. Healthcare.gov failed because HHS/CMS tried to manage it on their own, and it was only fixed once the White House brought in industry-leading managers and programmers. This draft bill would create a new office of top IT talent to review all major IT projects and help agencies plan the contracting process. 2. Enable more small businesses to bid on federal IT contracts without having to spend thousands on compliance costs by lifting the threshold for a streamlined contracting process from $150,000 to $500,000 ###
01.14.2014	+ SHARE Bipartisan Legislators Claim Victory in Restoring FDA User Fees January 14th, 2014 Omnibus Package Restores Sequestered Funds Vital to Medical Research, Innovation WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) welcomed the announcement that the omnibus appropriations package introduced by Congressional budget leaders restores $85 million in sequestered user fees paid to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in fiscal year 2013. The bipartisan team has led the effort in calling for an immediate fix to reverse the sequester of FDA user fees, arguing the intent of sequestration was to curtail public spending, not private dollars spent on medical innovation. Doing so hinders the agency’s ability to meet congressionally-mandated responsibilities while putting patient safety at risk. “The action by the U.S. House to correct the sequester of the FDA user fees now ensures that the agency will have the tools and resources to ensure that millions of Americans will continue to benefit from medicines and medical devices that are safe and effective,” said Lance, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee. “The release of these funds will benefit patients, public health and medical innovation.” “I’m thrilled that the Omnibus Appropriations Act reflects the bipartisan support of Members of Congress to roll back the sequester of fiscal year 2013 user fees, and to encourage the Administration to end the practice of sequestering industry-paid fees moving forward,” said Eshoo, who is a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Because user fees are 100 percent private sector dollars and cannot be used to pay down the deficit, it’s critical that Appropriators recognized that these funds are targeted specifically for the approval of safe and effective drugs and devices and should not be entangled in the sequester. I will continue to push the Administration to allow the FDA to access their user fees in full so that patients receive the best care possible.” As a result of sequestration, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) made a decision to include FDA user fees in sequestered resources despite the fact that they are not government funds and cannot contribute to reducing the deficit. User fees by law cannot be diverted to the general treasury for deficit reduction and instead sit in budgetary limbo unavailable to the FDA for human drug review or for any other purpose. In fiscal year 2013, sequestration prevented the FDA from utilizing nearly $85 million industry-paid user fees for the approval of new drugs and devices. Last week, Lance and Eshoo spearheaded a letter asking top congressional appropriators to exempt the FDA’s user fees from the sequester. The duo also introduced bipartisan legislation (H.R. 2725) that would exempt FDA user fees from cuts under sequestration. The effort has been supported by a number of organizations. 1. AdvaMed2. California Heathcare Institute (CHI)3. Medical Device Manufacturers Association (MDMA)4. Genentech5. Gilead6. Patient Services Inc.7. The National Health Council8. Leukemia Lymphoma Society9. PhRMA10. ALS Association11. BIO12. HealthCare Institute of New Jersey13. American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, Inc.14. Johnson and Johnson15. Generic Pharmaceutical Association16. USAgainst Alzheimer's17. Bavarian Nordic18. American Society of Clinical Oncology19. Research!America20. NORD21. BIOCOM22. American Association of Orthopedic Surgeons23. National Multiple Sclerosis Society24. Parkinson’s Action Network25. National Organization for Rare Disorders26. USAgainst Alzheiemer’s27. Life Technologies28. GPhA ###
01.14.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Net Neutrality Court Ruling January 14th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued a ruling on the Federal Communication Commission’s (FCC) net neutrality rules: “Today, the D.C. Circuit Court upheld a pillar of public policy, affirming that the FCC has the authority to oversee broadband services in the United States. For net neutrality rules to exist at all, this is essential and is the statutory basis on which they should be derived moving forward. “The Court did, however, strike down portions of current FCC rules that prevented broadband providers from discriminating against online content and blocking content altogether, despite noting that anti-blocking rules have merit. With this, the open Internet suffers a blow, but it is not irreparable. “Strong enforcement of the Commission’s Open Internet principles is the least Congress can do to preserve a free and open Internet, ensuring that networks remain a robustly competitive engine for innovation and economic growth. I will utilize every arrow in my quiver, including legislation, to make sure the FCC can carry out this critical mission effectively.” ###
01.07.2014	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on AT&T Announcement of Sponsored Data Program January 7th, 2014 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement: “The announcement of a sponsored data program by AT&T puts it in the business of picking winners and losers on the Internet, threatening the open Internet, competition and consumer choice. It’s exactly why net neutrality rules came to exist in the first place and why these rules should apply equally to all forms of broadband Internet service. “AT&T’s sponsored data program allows content creators and app developers to pay for a customer’s wireless data much like a company covers the cost of a long distance call using a 1-800 number. On its face, the ability for consumers to access ‘toll-free’ content seems like long-awaited relief from frustrating data caps. But embedded in programs of this type are serious implications for fairness and competition in the mobile marketplace. And we must ask just how beneficial a program like this is to consumers who could ultimately foot the bill for the added cost of doing business.” ###
12.13.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Safeguard Public Health December 13th, 2013 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), along with Reps. Phil Gingrey, M.D., (R-GA), Gene Green (D-TX), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Eliot Engel (D-NY), John Shimkus (R-IL), and Ed Whitfield (R-KY) yesterday introduced H.R. 3742, the Antibiotic Development toAdvance Patient Treatment (ADAPT) Act of 2013. This legislation is a successor to the GAINAct, introduced by the same group of lawmakers and signed into law last year. The ADAPT Actadvances drug development in order to combat the growing public health threat of “superbugs,”which the Center for Disease Control (CDC) warned of earlier this year. “This bill is an important next step in in our effort to address antibiotic resistance,” said Rep.Eshoo. “Patients are in need of new drugs to treat increasingly common infections and it’scritical that we stay a step ahead of the next drug-resistant threat. The ADAPT Act will help usget there.” About the legislationThe ADAPT Act of 2013 is the successor to the GAIN Act and advances drug development inthree ways: 1.) Develops a new, accelerated pathway for antibiotics and antifungals This pathway provides for FDA-approval of drugs in order to treat emerging threats in limited and specific patient populations. 2.) Strengthen resistance monitoring by the CDC The CDC will also monitor use of antibiotics to treat serious and life-threatening infections and make this data publically available to providers, hospitals, and academics. 3.) Update Susceptibility Test Interpretive Criteria for Microbial Organisms or “breakpoints.” The ADAPT Act streamlines the antibiotics labeling process at the FDA to ensure up-to-date and cutting-edge data is available on drug labels. A copy of the bill can be found here. ###
12.12.2013	+ SHARE Bill to Eliminate TV Blackouts and Reform the Video Marketplace Introduced December 12th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, introduced the Video CHOICE (Consumers Have Options in Choosing Entertainment) Act to eliminate broadcast television blackouts and give consumers greater flexibility to choose the channels they receive each month from their cable, satellite or other pay-TV provider. “During the three months since I released draft legislation – the message from individuals, communications companies and consumer groups has been abundantly clear: our video laws are in need of reform,” said Rep. Eshoo. “My bill would put an end to broadcast television blackouts and ensure consumers aren’t held hostage by a dispute they have no control over. Recurring TV blackouts coupled with the rising cost of broadcast television programming has left consumers frustrated and looking to Congress and the FCC for answers. “To add insult to injury, consumers have begun seeing these programming increases in the form of below-the-line-fees on their monthly bills.” Rep. Eshoo continued, “I look forward to working with Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA) and the leadership of the House Energy & Commerce Committee to advance meaningful bipartisan reform that promotes healthy competition, consumer choice and continued innovation across the video marketplace.” “Internet users and television customers should not be held hostage when business negotiation disputes arise between cable and content providers,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren. “It’s unfair to subject consumers to service blackouts or blocked online content. This bill offers the basic consumer protections and choices they should receive in television and online services.” The Video CHOICE Act has five key provisions: Preventing Broadcast Television BlackoutsGives the FCC explicit statutory authority to grant interim carriage of a television broadcast station during a retransmission consent negotiation impasse. Ensuring Consumer Choice in Cable ProgrammingEnsures that a consumer can purchase cable television service without subscribing to the broadcast stations electing retransmission consent. Wholesale Unbundling of Broadcast Stations in Retransmission Consent NegotiationsProhibits a television broadcast station engaged in a retransmission consent negotiation from making their owned or affiliated cable programming a condition for receiving broadcast programming. Examination into the Blocking of a Broadcast Station's Owned or Affiliated Online Content During Retransmission Consent NegotiationsInstructs the FCC to examine whether the blocking of a television broadcast station's owned or affiliated online content during a retransmission consent negotiation constitutes a failure to negotiate in "good faith." FCC Study of Sports Programming CostsCalls for an FCC study of programming costs for regional and national sports networks in the top 20 regional sports markets. Supporters of the Video CHOICE Act: Alsea River Cable TVAmerican Cable Association (ACA)American Television Alliance (ATVA)Atlantic BroadbandBEVCOMMBlue Ridge/PencorBright House NetworksCenturyLinkCharter CommunicationsClarity TelecomConsolidated CommunicationsConsumer ActionDIRECTVDISH NetworkFree Press Action FundGreat Plains CommunicationsIndependent Telephone & Telecommunications Alliance (ITTA)INSPMCTVMediacom CommunicationsMetroCast CommunicationsNational Consumers LeagueOvationPublic KnowledgeRitter CommunicationsShentelSports Fans CoalitionStarz, LLCSuddenlink CommunicationsTDS Telecommunications Corp.The Rural Broadband Association (NTCA)Time Warner CableUSTelecomVerizonWave BroadbandWOW! Internet-Cable-PhoneWTA A copy of the bill can be found here. ###
12.11.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Release of Merrill Newman By North Korea December 11th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement: “It is a great joy and relief to know that Merrill Newman has been released by the North Korean government and is finally on his way home. The last 42 days have been trying and deeply troubling for Merrill's wife, Lee, and their son Jeff. “I am deeply grateful to the Administration, Ambassador Robert King and his exceptional staff, and colleagues who have from the beginning of this ordeal worked tirelessly with me to bring about Mr. Newman's release. “Merrill and Lee Newman are beloved by the Palo Alto community, and we welcome him home with grateful hearts and open arms.” ###
12.05.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on House Passage of Bill to Mitigate Abusive Patent Litigation December 5th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and original cosponsor of the Innovation Act (H.R. 3309), released the following statement after the House passed the bipartisan bill by a vote of 325 to 91. The Innovation Act builds on reforms that were made last Congress in the America Invents Act and addresses certain abusive practices by ‘patent trolls’ in U.S. courts. “When our patent system is not working in a wholesome and robust way, competition, innovation and consumerism are threatened. In 2011, patent trolls cost companies that actually innovate $29 billion to challenge or settle claims, a 400 percent increase from 2005 and a clear cut-sign that something needs to change. The Innovation Act is the solution to the problem of abusive patent litigation, and I’m proud to have introduced this bipartisan legislation with Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress.” Patent trolls are companies or individuals that typically do not invent or manufacture anything, but are merely in the business of litigation. Trolls own patents, often overly broad and vague, and cite infringement as a way of extorting money from dozens and sometimes hundreds of businesses both small and large. Rep. Eshoo was joined in introducing the bill by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Chairman Howard Coble (R-N.C.), as well as Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), and George Holding (R-N.C.). Key Components of the Innovation Act: Target Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior and not specific entities with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: The patent system is integral to U.S. competitiveness. This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation includes heightened pleading standards and transparency provisions, requiring parties to do a bit of due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit. It reduces litigation expenses and saves courts time and resources. Modernizes Fee Shifting: The legislation modernizes fee shifting so that it is fair, clear and will ensure consistent judicial determinations. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. ###
11.25.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo & Goodlatte Named 2014 Co-chairs of First Congressional App Competition November 25th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statements after the House Administration Committee appointed them as Co-chairs of the first ever House Academic Competition to promote innovation in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM). “Because of your established leadership in this field, the Committee appoints you as co-chairs for the 2014 STEM Competition,” the Committee wrote to Eshoo and Goodlatte. As Co-chairs of the Congressional Internet Caucus, Eshoo and Goodlatte have been at the forefront of promoting education and innovation in the STEM fields, making them ideal candidates to lead the 2014 competition. The first competition will be formally launched in February 2014 and will be an app competition for high school students in participating Congressional districts. “I’m thrilled to be leading such an extraordinary opportunity for our nation’s youth and to help foster interest in science, technology, engineering, and math education,” said Eshoo, who also serves as Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “According to the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, the next decade will bring approximately 8.5 million STEM job opportunities, but during the same time we will face a shortage of 1 million STEM graduates. We need to address this mismatch by encouraging our children’s innate curiosity and creativity. What better way to do so than through a mobile apps competition?” Eshoo continued, “From mobile medical apps that may soon revolutionize the way we seek and receive healthcare, to apps that enable video conferencing and the streaming of online video, our lives have been forever changed by the mobility and economic impact these applications provide. I thank the House Administration Committee for the appointment, and I look forward to the competition.” “The demand for students educated in engineering and technology continues to rise in the United States but part of the challenge is how to engage students in these subjects and further the understanding of these valuable skills,” said Goodlatte, who is also Chairman of the Judiciary Committee. “The House Academic Competition is a great opportunity to promote these fields which are driving American innovation. I look forward to working with my Co-Chair Anna Eshoo to oversee this competition which will help to build a workforce equipped with science, technology, engineering and math skills.” Background: Earlier this year, the House voted to establish an academic competition that promotes greater innovation among students across the country. The competition, which allows Members to conduct annual contests among students in their district, will encourage greater participation in the STEM fields and help emphasize their importance to our economic success. On November 20th, the House Administration Committee advanced this important initiative by adopting the regulations governing the competition, including rules on administration, contestants, judges, and resources. ###
11.19.2013	+ SHARE Sen. Feinstein, Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren and Honda Celebrate Selection of San Jose City Hall as Silicon Valley Patent Office's Permanent Home November 19th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Mike Honda (D-San Jose) joined together today in celebrating the selection of San Jose’s City Hall building as the permanent location for the Silicon Valley satellite patent office. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s (USPTO) announcement comes after a search for a permanent office space was put on hold in July due to federal budget sequestration. Senator Feinstein, a longtime advocate for a Silicon Valley satellite office, inserted language in a Senate appropriations bill this summer to jumpstart the process of opening the California location. Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren and Honda have been working diligently to find a solution as well, including introducing H.R. 2852, the Patents and Trademarks Encourage New Technology (PATENT) Jobs Act, to exempt USPTO from budget sequestration because the agency is funded through user fees, not taxpayer dollars. “My thanks to Mayor Chuck Reed and the City of San Jose for agreeing to house a satellite patent office in their lovely City Hall rent-free for two years,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein (CA). “Opening this office in the middle of Silicon Valley, the highest patent-producing area in the country, was the logical choice. The next step is for Congress to free up funds to continue operating this office. These funds—which are actually fees from patent filings—should not be held hostage by the sequester. I will continue my work on the Appropriations Committee to ensure these satellite patent offices receive funds necessary to remain open.” “I welcome the announcement of a permanent home for the Silicon Valley satellite patent office. The importance of this office to our region cannot be understated,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18). “Silicon Valley is the innovation capital of our country, with Stanford and other top research institutions in our back yard, a highly skilled workforce developing the innovations of tomorrow, and the largest share of our nation’s patents. This permanent office will help thousands of innovators and entrepreneurs in our region take full advantage of our nation’s intellectual property system, and it’s why I’m exceedingly proud to have been part of the effort to make this a reality.” “This patent office is about tapping and unleashing the kind of economic growth, job creation, and prosperity an innovation economy offers our entire country,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19). “That’s because California, and the Valley in particular, are innovation powerhouses that will soon benefit from the extraordinary effort that went into landing this new patent office. The Silicon Valley patent office will help our most promising start-ups with the services and resources they need to go from the drawing board to the marketplace faster, and in the process, grow their ventures and create good paying jobs.” “It is great news that the U.S. Patent Office will be opening its long-planned Silicon Valley satellite branch in San Jose,” said Rep. Mike Honda (CA-17). “As a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee that oversees the Commerce Department, I have worked for months with the committee chairman, Patent Office officials, and the South Bay delegation on a solution that will allow the innovation of our region to continue to thrive. Going forward, we will be redoubling our efforts to end the budget sequestration that threatens the USPTO and all fee-based agencies once and for all. My priorities in representing Silicon Valley will always remain in job growth and cultivating innovation.” The announcement comes after a concerted, multi-year effort to locate one of four satellite offices in California. Through a collaborative effort announced today, the City of San Jose will provide approximately 40,000 square feet of permanent office space in City Hall without charge for two years and then at a reduced amount for the following three years. Additionally, John Perez, the California State Assembly Speaker, will offer the USPTO $500,000 for the agency to provide education and outreach efforts to accelerate momentum towards opening the permanent Silicon Valley office. # # #
11.14.2013	+ SHARE Bipartisan Bill to Reduce Premature Births to Become Law November 14th, 2013 PREEMIE Reauthorization Act expands research, education and intervention for premature births WASHINGTON, D.C.—Authors of the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act (S. 252) Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Leonard Lance (R-N.J.) released the following statements after the Senate passed the legislation by unanimous consent. The bill reauthorizes the original PREEMIE Act, which Eshoo authored in 2006 to reduce infant deaths and disabilities by expanding research, education, and intervention activities related to preterm birth. The reauthorization recently passed the House and now goes to the president’s desk for his signature. “November marks Prematurity Awareness Month, and just days ago the March of Dimes announced that the preterm birth rate in America dropped for the sixth consecutive year to 11.5 percent largely due to the original PREEMIE Act,” Eshoo said. “Building on this progress, I’m proud that Congress has voted to reauthorize the law so we can continue to eradicate preterm birth in America, resulting in healthier babies and saving approximately $9 billion in extra health care costs.” “This is how Congress should work,” said Lance. “Together in a bipartisan fashion we have crafted legislation with a wonderful end result: healthier infants, intact families and billions of dollars in savings. This law will spur innovative research that will truly make a difference. I thank Congresswoman Eshoo for joining me in this effort and for the March of Dimes for its tireless advocacy.” “Today, one in every nine infants in our nation is born preterm,” stated March of Dimes President Dr. Jennifer L. Howse. “Prematurity can lead to a host of adverse health consequences for these babies and place a terrible strain on their families. In addition, preterm birth carries a significant cost to businesses and our economy. Each preterm birth costs, on average, 12 times as much as a full-term birth, meaning that care for each preterm baby costs more than that for the other eight full-term infants combined. The March of Dimes commends the U.S. Congress for passing the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act to help prevent preterm birth and research its causes. We are deeply grateful to the bill’s sponsors, Representatives Anna Eshoo and Leonard Lance, for championing this issue vital to children and families.” Background: The March of Dimes recently reported that in 2012 11.5 percent of U.S. births were preterm, compared to 12.8 percent in 2006. The organization estimates that since 2006, about 176,000 fewer babies have been born too soon because of improvement in the preterm birth rate. In addition to being the leading cause of newborn death, premature birth can cause a lifetime of health challenges and intellectual disabilities for those children who do survive. According to the Institute of Medicine, the annual societal costs associated with preterm birth were $26.2 billion in 2005 or $51,600 per infant born preterm. Nearly two-thirds of this $26.2 billion estimate was spent on medical care, a figure that does not include the cost of medical care beyond early childhood or caretaker costs such as lost wages. Employers, private insurers and individuals bear approximately half of the costs of health care for these infants, and another 40 percent is paid by Medicaid. S.252 reauthorizes the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's research and programs on preterm birth, including improving national data tracking on preterm birth, and conducting studies. The bill also adds prenatal care for high-risk pregnancies to the Health Resources and Services Administration tele-health network grant program.The bill also requires the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary's Advisory Committee on Infant Mortality to develop a plan for conducting and supporting research, education and programs on preterm birth within the first year of enactment, and requires the HHS secretary to coordinate existing studies on hospital readmission of preterm infants and to report on recommendations within a year of enactment. Click Here for state-by-state information on preterm birth rates. The following organizations have endorsed the bill: March of DimesAmerican Academy of PediatricsAmerican Association on Health and DisabilityAmerican College of Nurse-MidwivesAmerican Congress of Obstetricians and GynecologistsAmerican Public Health AssociationAmerican Thoracic SocietyAssociation of Maternal & Child Health ProgramsAssociation of State and Territorial Health OfficialsAssociation of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal NursesCouncil of Women's and Infants' Specialty HospitalsFirst CandleGlobal Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and StillbirthNational Association of County and City Health OfficialsNational Association of Neonatal NursesPreeclampsia FoundationSociety for Maternal-Fetal Medicine ###
11.08.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Grant Award for Community Health Organization in 18th Congressional District November 8th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced that the Asian Americans for Community Involvement (AACI) of Santa Clara, Inc. was awarded an $866,667 grant as part of the Affordable Care Act. Located in the 18th Congressional District, the San Jose organization was awarded the grant for its work to improve the health, mental health and well-being of individuals, families and the Asian American community. Across the state, $30.6 million in grant awards to community health centers was also announced to expand access to health care. These funds will allow the centers to serve 333,187 additional patients in California. Nationwide, 236 health center programs will receive approximately $150 million in grant awards to serve more than 1.25 million additional patients. “I’m thrilled that AACI was awarded over $800,000 as part of the Affordable Care Act to improve and expand its vital community health initiatives,” said Eshoo, who is a member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus and voted for the Affordable Care Act. “AACI served nearly 14,000 patients in 2012, many of whom were uninsured. With these new funds, community health centers like AACI will provide even more individuals and families in our state and the 18th Congressional District with access to high-quality affordable health care.” How the Grants Will Be Used: Through the Affordable Care Act’s commitment to expand access to high quality health care for all Americans, these grants will be used by the community health centers to support establishment of new full-time service delivery sites. Today, approximately 1,200 health centers nationwide operate more than 9,000 service delivery sites that provide care to over 21 million patients. Since the beginning of 2009, health centers have added 4 million patients and more than 35,000 new full-time positions. About AACI: AACI has helped make a difference in the lives of individuals, families and the Asian American community for over 40 years. Serving nearly 14,000 patients from in and around the 18th Congressional District last year, employing 165 staff members, and over 40 languages and dialects spoken by staff, AACI is a model community health center. And like the Silicon Valley region it serves, AACI is implementing innovative programs to better serve the community. At the end of 2012, the organization was awarded the Health Care Innovation Award from the Center for Medicaid & Medicare Services. Of 3,000 applicants nationwide, AACI’s project was one of 107 selected for a multi-year federal grant to establish a Patient Navigation Center with the goal of better serving community members. ###
11.08.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse Release Quarterly CALM Act Report November 8th, 2013 Decline in Loud TV Ads WASHINGTON, D.C.—Authors of the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) released the latest quarterly report today from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on the status of the law. According to the FCC’s analysis, complaints of loud TV commercials between June and September of this year have gradually tapered off since they peaked during the first two weeks after the rules took effect in December 2012. “[Total complaints] from June 1, 2013 through September 30, 2013, are 3501, approximately 53% fewer complaints than filed in the previous four months,” the report said. “I’m very pleased that the loudness standards set in place by the CALM Act are working,” Eshoo said. “Fewer complaints suggest that fewer TV commercials are airing at volume levels inconsistent with the programming around them. For consumers, this means they’re finally getting relief from the earsplitting volumes of the past.” “Loud commercials have long been an unnecessary annoyance in the daily lives of Americans, and have consistently ranked among the top consumer complaints to the FCC,” Whitehouse said. “I was glad to work with Rep. Eshoo to pass a law to address this problem, and I’m pleased to see that the number of FCC complaints has steadily declined since the law took effect.” Background: Before the CALM Act, loud commercials were a top consumer complaint to the FCC for decades, and were listed as such in 21 of the FCC's 25 quarterly reports between 2002 and 2009. A Harris poll in 2009 showed that almost 90 percent of TV viewers were bothered by high commercial volumes, prompting 41 percent of viewers to turn down the volume, 22 percent to mute the TV, and 17 percent to change the channel altogether. Prior to the CALM Act, the official FCC policy recommended that consumers mute commercials if they found them to be excessively strident. Rep. Eshoo first introduced the CALM Act in the House in June 2008. Senator Whitehouse's companion bill passed the Senate unanimously on September 29, 2010, and the House passed the legislation on December 2, 2010. President Obama signed Eshoo's legislation into law on December 15, 2010. The FCC passed its final rules implementing the law in December 2011. FCC Consumer Guide – CALM Act ###
11.05.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Rogers Celebrate Pediatric Drug Milestone November 5th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) issued the following statements to celebrate the 500th pharmaceutical drug labeled with pediatric information as part of implementation of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Improvement Act (FDASIA). Eshoo and Rogers are longtime champions of pediatric drug safety. In 2012, they authored the reauthorization of legislation included in FDASIA, the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA), both of which have contributed to increased pediatric labeling on pharmaceutical drugs to ensure proper dosage and reduce harmful side effects in children. The two laws also incent pharmaceutical companies to conduct more studies on how medications affect children. “The 500th pharmaceutical drug with pediatric labeling is a major milestone,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With more ubiquitous use of pediatric labeling by pharmaceutical companies, parents can be increasingly confident that their children are getting the most effective and proper dosage of treatments to protect them from harmful side effects and unnecessary risks.” “I am proud to have been a part of such important legislation that has now achieved 500 drug labels,” Rep. Rogers said. “It is very difficult to study and test prescription drugs for children, placing them at incredible risk of harm, which is why the permanent reauthorization of the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) that was signed into law last year continues to be such a vital piece of improving prescription drugs for children.” “Children are not just small adults; their unique developmental and physiological needs affect how medications work for them,” said AAP President Thomas K. McInerny, MD, FAAP. “We now have 500 drug labels that include new information for children, which has not only revolutionized pediatric practice, but has also helped provide children with access to safe and effective medicines labeled especially for them. Pediatricians owe an enormous debt of thanks to Congressman Rogers and Congresswoman Eshoo for their tireless advocacy to make sure children can access the medicines they need when they need them.” Background: Congress first recognized the need to ensure that drugs were being studied in children in 1997 when it passed Eshoo's legislation, BPCA, a bill to incent the study of off-label uses in pediatric populations by offering companies an additional six months of patent life on their product. In 2003, Congress passed another of Eshoo's bills, PREA, to study on-label indications in children, when safe and appropriate. ###
11.04.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Releases OMB Response to FDA User Fee Inquiry November 4th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and author of the FDA SOS Act, released the following statement with the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) response to her inquiry into sequestered Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fees: “OMB’s response confirmed my worst fear about what’s happening to sequestered FDA user fees. The $85 million taken from the agency this past fiscal year is in fact stagnating in a government bank account, and all future FDA user fee cuts scheduled under sequestration are destined for the same unless Congress says otherwise. “Sequestration was intended to reduce public spending, not private dollars that companies agreed to pay in order to expedite the approval of safe and effective medicines. This reaffirms the need to pass legislation that exempts from sequestration the private money FDA collects in user fees so that they may be used by the agency in full for their intended use.” A copy of the letter from OMB to Rep. Eshoo can be found here. ###
10.29.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to End Surveillance of Americans by U.S. Intelligence Agencies October 29th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Eight-year veteran of the House Intelligence Committee and current Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) is part of a bipartisan group of over 70 House Members who introduced legislation to comprehensively reform U.S. national security laws and end the surveillance dragnet of Americans by the National Security Agency (NSA). This legislation, known as the USA FREEDOM Act, comes after revelations in recent months that the U.S. intelligence community has trampled on the personal privacy and civil liberties of Americans by regularly collecting their “metadata” telephone records. Metadata refers to telephone numbers, time and duration of phone calls. “The NSA took advantage of the laws Congress wrote to spy on Americans, and it’s imperative to correct them,” Eshoo said. “This legislation ensures that surveillance of Americans ceases and puts in place safeguards to prevent this from happening again. The critical balance between national security and the constitutional rights of the American people must always be honored.” Background: The NSA claims authority for its surveillance programs under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act of 2001, but it was never the intent of Congress to allow the NSA to capture the communications of all Americans. The USA FREEDOM Act would end this suspicionless surveillance program by only allowing the NSA to obtain the records of individuals who are suspected of terrorism or have been in direct contact with such a person. The legislation will also increase transparency at the secret court that reviews and approves the government’s surveillance requests. Currently, only the government can present evidence to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), with no one arguing on behalf of privacy interests. This has resulted in the approval of 99.7 percent of the government’s surveillance requests over the last three decades. The USA FREEDOM Act would create a Public Advocate to argue on behalf of the public interest before the FISC, and would require the court to publish declassified summaries of all its major decisions and interpretations of the law. The USA FREEDOM Act would make several other reforms to shine light on our intelligence agencies, including allowing Internet companies to disclose estimates of the number of FISC orders they receive each year, and how many users are impacted. Leaked documents indicate that the NSA frequently obtains FISC orders to access the data of foreign users held by major Internet companies, but currently these companies are unable to publicly disclose anything about the nature or scope of these requests. ###
10.29.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Patent Litigation Reform Bill October 29th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Last week, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, introduced bipartisan legislation to address the growing problem of abusive patent litigation. Called the Innovation Act (H.R.3309), the bill builds on reforms that were made last Congress in the America Invents Act and addresses certain abusive practices by ‘patent trolls’ in U.S. courts. “Abusive patent litigation is a drain on our economy and seriously undermines American innovation,” Eshoo said. “In 2011, patent trolls cost companies that actually innovate $29 billion to challenge or settle claims, a 400 percent increase from 2005. The impact of these suits is felt most profoundly on small businesses, including many in the 18th Congressional District.” Patent trolls are companies or individuals that typically do not invent or manufacture anything, but are merely in the business of litigation. Trolls own patents, often overly broad and vague, and cite infringement as a way of extorting money from dozens and sometimes hundreds of businesses both small and large. Eshoo continued, “The Innovation Act targets abusive patent litigation but does not eliminate valid patent claims. It requires parties to do more due diligence up front before they can file a claim, optimizing court resources and lessening the burden on the patent system. It enhances education and outreach to small businesses so they can inform and prepare themselves. And it modernizes the patent system to better protect our nation’s innovators. In introducing this bill, we’re moving toward a patent system that encourages entrepreneurship and strengthens the pace of innovation in America.” Rep. Eshoo was joined in introducing the bill by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Chairman Howard Coble (R-N.C.), as well as Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), and George Holding (R-N.C.). Key Components of the Innovation Act: Target Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior and not specific entities with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: The patent system is integral to U.S. competitiveness. This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation includes heightened pleading standards and transparency provisions, requiring parties to do a bit of due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit. It reduces litigation expenses and saves courts time and resources. Modernizes Fee Shifting: The legislation modernizes fee shifting so that it is fair, clear and will ensure consistent judicial determinations. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. A copy of the legislation can be found here and a section-by-section can be found here. ###
10.28.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Extends Deadline for Service Academy Nomination Applications October 28th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.–Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced she is extending the application deadline for nominations from the 18th Congressional District to U.S. service academies. The new deadline for the 2014 school year is Friday, October 25th. "Because the government shutdown has impacted staffing at our service academies, I'm extending the deadline for interested applicants understanding the process for consideration could take longer this year," Eshoo said. "Nominating young women and men from the 18th Congressional District to attend our nation's service academies is always a high honor. I encourage each and every interested student in our district to consider applying to one of these prestigious programs." Background To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated by an authorized person, including Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Members of the U.S. Senate or the Vice President's office. Congressional nominations are required for all service academies, except the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine Academies seek qualified high school students from across the country. The selection process is highly competitive and each service academy looks for candidates with strong academic accomplishments, particularly in math and science, leadership skills, and physical aptitude. The law requires that candidates for service academies be at least 17 years old and have not passed their 22nd birthday. Candidates must also be U.S. citizens, unmarried and not have any dependents. Congresswoman Eshoo's Service Academy Review Board–a group of former service members and other distinguished residents from the 18th Congressional District–reviews the applications, interviews candidates, and provides recommendations to Eshoo, who then selects and sends her nominations to the respective academies. Interested students should contact Karen Chapman or Anthony Lin at (650) 323-2984, (831) 335-2020 or (408) 245-2339 to request a nomination packet. ###
10.18.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Government Shutdown October 18th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) issued the following statement: "Today is the 11th day of the government shutdown with 800,000 government employees still out of work, including 1,400 of my constituents, due to this reckless, irresponsible and high-risk venture of House Republicans. $12.5 million is being lost every hour in work and services the government is unable to perform. Thousands of small businesses and startups—the backbone of America's economy—are without the Small Business Administration's guaranteed loans and regulatory approval. And the latest estimate from the Treasury is that if Congress doesn't vote to raise the debt ceiling by October 17th there is a virtual guarantee that our economy and the global economy could implode. "Let's recall how we arrived here as we reach the end of the second week of this government shutdown. It all began when House Republicans insisted that the Affordable Care Act be repealed in order to win their votes to keep the government functioning. "This non-starter demand has now bled into the debt ceiling debate and mutated into a litany of others: offshore oil drilling permits; ending 'net neutrality' policies; approving the Keystone XL pipeline; defunding the 2010 Wall Street reform law; and piecemeal funding of popular government programs. If I were to try to explain this to small children, I'd say it's as if Harry Potter overdosed on polyjuice potion. "What I can only expect next from House Republicans is something we'd find in a children's fantasy book, which is meaningless in the real world. It's meaningless for the millions of Americans the government shutdown affects, and the low-income mothers and their infants without nutrition benefits. It's meaningless for pre-school children left without a Head Start program, and the hundreds of people infected with salmonella because the Food and Drug Administration couldn't do its job. "House Republicans need to drop the fantasies and bring a bill to the floor to reopen the government with no strings attached. Let's raise the debt ceiling like we've always done to pay America's bills. Let's end this manufactured crisis so we can negotiate a long-term, fiscally responsible path forward for our country. Let's do the job the American people sent us here to do." ###
10.18.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Signs Petition to Reopen the Government October 18th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) signed The Petition to Reopen the Government. Should the petition secure 218 signatures, it will automatically send legislation to the full House for an 'up' or 'down' vote to reopen the government with no strings attached. With Speaker Boehner still refusing to bring up such a vote, this petition would supersede the obstructionism. "This petition gives Republicans the opportunity to create a vote to reopen the government with no strings attached," Eshoo said. "It would be a bipartisan opportunity to put 800,000 federal employees back to work. It will restart Head Start programs for preschoolers, and ensure low-income mothers and their infants get vital nutrition. It will reopen government agencies and it will let America move on from this manufactured crisis." Eshoo continued, "With 200 Democrats committed to signing on, and 22 Republicans publicly signaling their support for a 'clean' bill to reopen the government, I'm hopeful that Republicans will do the right thing." A copy of the petition can be found here. ###
10.18.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Swalwell, Lee, Lofgren Urge Back Pay for Furloughed National Laboratory Employees October 18th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) today announced she is part of a group of lawmakers urging Department of Energy (DOE) Secretary Ernest Moniz to work with the White House to allow DOE national laboratories to provide their employees back pay once the federal government reopens. More than 13,000 national lab employees in the Bay Area, who are government contractors, are at risk of being furloughed if the shutdown continues. The House of Representatives has already taken action to provide back pay to federal workers who are furloughed due to the unnecessary shutdown. Reps. Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Barbara Lee (CA-13), and Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) have already signed-on to the letter, and it will be open to other Members of the California Congressional Delegation to join. Rep. Eshoo represents SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory in Menlo Park where 1,500 employees are at risk of being furloughed. "The government shutdown has put over 1,500 SLAC employees at risk of being furloughed. They are our nation's premier scientists and engineers who daily are engaged in cutting-edge research that is changing the world," Eshoo said. "To add insult to injury these employees are not entitled to back pay if they're furloughed because they are employees of an operator of a federal facility, not the federal government. "I urge Secretary Moniz to authorize Department of Energy funds for furloughed national lab employees to ensure that our nation's brightest receive their pay, and that labs like SLAC can continue to recruit and retain the best minds in the world." Rep. Swalwell represents Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories in Livermore. If the government shutdown continues, 7,500 government contractors at these labs will be furloughed without pay beginning October 18. "National lab employees in Livermore should not have to suffer because of a shutdown caused by the Tea Party," said Swalwell. "Lab employees are dedicated public servants who are supporting our country's national and energy security, and just because their paychecks stop doesn't mean their bills won't keep coming. At my town hall last week many lab employees expressed to me their anxiety about keeping up with their mortgage payment or child's tuition once the furlough begins. Our hardworking lab employees at the very least deserve to be reassured that they will be paid once the current crisis is resolved." Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory is located in Rep. Barbara Lee's congressional district. "Congress has moved to provide back pay to hundreds of thousands of federal employees across the country who continue to suffer furloughs due to the unnecessary Republican shutdown of the government," said Lee. "The scientists, technicians, and workers at our national labs make enormous contributions to this nation, and they deserve to be paid for their work. I hope that Secretary Moniz will heed our request and provide my constituents who work for the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory their full wages." Rep. Lofgren has been a long-time supporter of national laboratories and the fusion research being conducted at the National Ignition Facility (NIF) at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. "We take pride in the cutting edge advancements in our scientific research, but budget cuts and now a government shutdown are threatening these important undertakings," said Lofgren. "It's irresponsible political gamesmanship for Republicans to continue to refuse to put a clean funding bill before the House for a vote. If they did, it would pass, ending the harm that is being done to furloughed workers like these scientists and the vital research they are engaged in." The letter sent to Secretary Moniz follows: The Honorable Ernest Moniz Secretary United States Department of Energy 1000 Independence Ave, SW Washington, DC 20585 Dear Secretary Moniz: We urge the Department of Energy (DOE) to work with the White House to determine a method by which the operators of DOE national laboratories may, at their discretion, provide their employees back pay once the federal government reopens. As you know, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) and Sandia National Laboratories (SNL) in Livermore, California, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory (LBNL) in Berkeley, California, and SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory (SLAC) in Menlo Park, California employ thousands of scientists, engineers and researchers. Their approximately 13,400 total employees are dedicated public servants whose work is critical to our country's national security infrastructure and scientific research. Fortunately, despite the shutdown of the federal government, LLNL, SNL, LBNL, and SLAC so far have been able to continue normal operations. However, should the shutdown continue, furloughs of virtually all of their employees will be required. Only a small contingent of essential employees to secure these facilities and respond to national emergencies would remain. Lab employees have expressed their concerns about the uncertainty they face and the economic hardship which would be caused by furloughs. Their mortgage payments, car payments, and other monthly bills will continue even though they will not be receiving a paycheck. Putting lab employees through this economic difficulty is neither right nor necessary. We are optimistic that Congress will pass, and the President will sign, H.R. 3223, the Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act, which recently passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 407-0. This bill will compensate all federal employees who would not otherwise receive their full salaries due to the shutdown. However, lab employees will not be compensated as a result of this legislation because they are not federal employees. DOE has treated lab employees just like their federal counterparts in the past. For example, when Secretary Steven Chu instituted a DOE wide pay freeze, lab employees were included along with federal workers. If federal employees are provided pay for when they are furloughed, as they should be, we believe national labs should have the ability to extend back pay to lab employees. We ask that DOE work with the White House and the lab contractors to develop a means by which DOE national laboratories may compensate their employees during furloughs caused by a shutdown. This is the least we can do for people who do so much for our country on a daily basis and unfairly are being subjected to this uncertainty. Thank you for your time and consideration. ###
10.11.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Simitian, and Gordon Joint Statement on High Speed Rail October 11th, 2013 Since the passage of Proposition 1A in 2008, each of us has expressed our support for "high-speed rail done right," by which we mean a genuinely statewide system that makes prudent use of limited public funds and which is responsive to legitimate concerns about the impact of high-speed rail on our cities, towns, neighborhoods and homes. To date, however, the California High Speed Rail Authority has failed to develop and describe such a system for the Peninsula and South Bay. For that reason, we have taken it upon ourselves today to set forth some basic parameters for what "high-speed rail done right" looks like in our region. We start with the premise that for the Authority to succeed in its statewide mission it must be sensitive and responsive to local concerns about local impacts. Moreover, it is undeniable that funding will be severely limited at both the state and national levels for the foreseeable future. Much of the projected cost for the San Jose to San Francisco leg of the project is driven by the fact that the Authority has, to date, proposed what is essentially a second rail system for the Peninsula and South Bay, unnecessarily duplicating existing usable infrastructure. Even if such a duplicative system could be constructed without adverse impact along the Caltrain corridor, and we do not believe it can, the cost of such duplication simply cannot be justified. If we can barely find the funds to do high speed rail right, we most certainly cannot find the funds to do high speed rail wrong. Accordingly, we call upon the High-Speed Rail Authority and our local Caltrain Joint Powers Board to develop plans for a blended system that integrates high-speed rail with a 21st Century Caltrain. To that end: We explicitly reject the notion of high-speed rail running from San Jose to San Francisco on an elevated structure or "viaduct"; and we call on the High-Speed Rail Authority to eliminate further consideration of an aerial option; We fully expect that high-speed rail running from San Jose to San Francisco can and should remain within the existing Caltrain right of way; and, Third and finally, consistent with a project of this more limited scope, the Authority should abandon its preparation of an EIR (Environmental Impact Report) for a phased project of larger dimensions over a 25 year timeframe. Continuing to plan for a project of this scope in the face of limited funding and growing community resistance is a fool's errand; and is particularly ill-advised when predicated on ridership projections that are less than credible. Within the existing right-of-way, at or below grade, a single blended system could allow high-speed rail arriving in San Jose to continue north in a seamless fashion as part of a 21st Century Caltrain (using some combination of electrification, positive train control, new rolling stock and/or other appropriate upgrades) while maintaining the currently projected speeds and travel time for high-speed rail. The net result of such a system would be a substantially upgraded commuter service for Peninsula and South Bay residents capable of accommodating high-speed rail from San Jose to San Francisco. All of this is possible, but only if the High-Speed Rail Authority takes this opportunity to rethink its direction. Over the course of the past 18 months the Authority has come under considerable criticism from the California Legislative Analyst's Office, the Bureau of State Audits, the California Office of the Inspector General, the Authority's own Peer Review Group and the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California at Berkeley. The Authority would do well to take these critiques to heart, and to make them the basis for a renewed and improved effort. Frankly, a great many of our constituents are convinced that the High-Speed Rail Authority has already wandered so far afield that it is too late for a successful course correction. We hope the Authority can prove otherwise. An essential first step is a rethinking of the Authority's plans for the Peninsula and South Bay. A commitment to a project which eschews an aerial viaduct, stays within the existing right-of-way, sets aside any notion of a phased project expansion at a later date, and incorporates the necessary upgrades for Caltrain – which would produce a truly blended system along the Caltrain corridor – is the essential next step. ###
10.10.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Extends Deadline for Service Academy Nomination Applications October 10th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced she is extending the application deadline for nominations from the 18th Congressional District to U.S. service academies. The new deadline for the 2014 school year is Friday, October 25th. "Because the government shutdown has impacted staffing at our service academies, I'm extending the deadline for interested applicants understanding the process for consideration could take longer this year," Eshoo said. "Nominating young women and men from the 18th Congressional District to attend our nation's service academies is always a high honor. I encourage each and every interested student in our district to consider applying to one of these prestigious programs." Background To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated by an authorized person, including Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, Members of the U.S. Senate or the Vice President's office. Congressional nominations are required for all service academies, except the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. The Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine Academies seek qualified high school students from across the country. The selection process is highly competitive and each service academy looks for candidates with strong academic accomplishments, particularly in math and science, leadership skills, and physical aptitude. The law requires that candidates for service academies be at least 17 years old and have not passed their 22nd birthday. Candidates must also be U.S. citizens, unmarried and not have any dependents. Congresswoman Eshoo's Service Academy Review Board—a group of former service members and other distinguished residents from the 18th Congressional District—reviews the applications, interviews candidates, and provides recommendations to Eshoo, who then selects and sends her nominations to the respective academies. Interested students should contact Karen Chapman or Anthony Lin at (650) 323-2984, (831) 335-2020 or (408) 245-2339 to request a nomination packet. ###
09.23.2013	+ SHARE Reps. Waxman and Eshoo Call for Inquiry into First Responder Radio Failures at Navy Yard September 23rd, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.— Today Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo sent a letter to Lawrence Strickling, Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the Department of Commerce, and Federal Communications Commission Acting Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn to urge them to work closely with federal, regional, and local agencies investigating possible communications systems failures for first responders during the shooting at the Navy Yard last week. In 2012, Congress enacted legislation creating FirstNet, which is tasked with overseeing the construction of a nationwide, high-speed, interoperable broadband network dedicated to public safety. The members request that an inquiry into the tragedy also focus on how FirstNet might prevent similar communications breakdowns in the future. The full text of the letter is available below and online here. September 23, 2013 The Honorable Lawrence E. StricklingAssistant Secretary for Communications and InformationU.S. Department of Commerce1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20230 The Honorable Mignon ClyburnActing ChairwomanFederal Communications Commission445 12th Street, S.W.Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Assistant Secretary Strickling and Acting Chairwoman Clyburn: On September 16, 2013, the nation's capital became the latest site of gun violence when twelve Americans lost their lives during the shooting at the Navy Yard. There are many unanswered questions surrounding last Monday's events, and we want to ask you about one of them: the reports indicating that due to faulty radios, some first responders had to resort to their personal cell phones and "runners" to communicate as the tragedy was unfolding. If these reports are accurate, this will not be the first time communications difficulties impaired first responders during an emergency. Unfortunately, there have been numerous communications system failures during recent natural disasters and national emergencies, most notably the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. Last year, Congress enacted legislation to address these communication failures. Congress created FirstNet to ensure that first responders from public safety agencies across the country are able to communicate with each other through a common broadband network. Indeed, FirstNet's mission is to prevent exactly the types of communications failures that reportedly occurred at the Navy Yard last week. This horrific incident serves as a further reminder just how critical it is for FirstNet to succeed in its mission. Much work remains before the FirstNet network is up and running. One important part of this process is learning from past mistakes. We urge you to look closely at what happened at the Navy Yard to understand what went wrong and how FirstNet can be configured to address these failings. Press reports of the Navy Yard tragedy indicate that some of the radio problems experienced by police and firefighters at the scene — including inadequate indoor coverage, radio interference caused by fire alarms, and the inability to communicate with non-Navy first responder radio systems — were known long before the shooting and that little was done to solve these issues. We urge you to work closely with all federal, regional, and local agencies investigating these concerns. It is imperative that we understand what happened to these communications systems and why. And it is critical that the lessons of this latest tragedy be passed along to FirstNet, so it can design the future network to avoid such communications breakdowns. We look forward to working with you to address these problems and stand ready to assist if there is a role for Congress. We would appreciate an update on the results of your inquiry by October 21, 2013. Sincerely, Henry A. WaxmanRanking Member Anna G. EshooRanking MemberSubcommittee on Communications and Technology cc: The Honorable Fred UptonChairman The Honorable Greg WaldenChairmanSubcommittee on Communications and Technology ###
09.19.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against Bill to Slash U.S. Food-Aid Programs September 19th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) voted against the Nutrition Reform and Work Opportunity Act (H.R. 3102), a Republican-proposed bill to cut U.S. food aid (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP) by nearly $40 billion. The cut would deny basic food for nearly 4 million Americans next year. The measure narrowly passed the House by a vote of 217 to 210 and now must be considered by the Senate. Before her vote, Rep. Eshoo submitted the following statement for the record on the floor of the House: "Mr. Speaker, "I rise today in opposition to H.R. 3102. "A vote for this bill is a vote to cut $40 billion from U.S. food-aid programs, specifically to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. It's a vote to take food away from millions of Americans in poverty, and it's a vote to poison America's economic growth from the ground up. "The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that the cuts in this bill will cause 14 million people to lose SNAP benefits in the next decade. "The head of the local food bank in my District, the Second Harvest Food Bank of Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties, told me yesterday that her organization 'simply cannot fill the meal gap these cuts would create.' This means children, the elderly, veterans, single mothers, and others who rely on SNAP will go hungry. "SNAP benefits are part of America's social safety net. Like unemployment insurance, SNAP is a part of our economic recovery strategy. "And it's been a successful strategy. "According to the Census Bureau, SNAP lifted 4 million people out of poverty in 2012—the highest level on record. That's in addition to making tens of millions more Americans less poor by reducing the gap between their income and the poverty line. "Seventy-five percent of households receiving SNAP benefits have a senior citizen, a child, or a person with a disability. Fifty percent of households receiving SNAP benefits live below the poverty line. "These are the faces of our fellow Americans. These are the people who will be hurt by this pernicious bill. "Vote no on H.R. 3102." ###
09.18.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds House Passage of Bipartisan Religious Minorities Special Envoy Legislation September 18th, 2013 Urges Swift Senate Action WASHINGTON, D.C.– The House today overwhelmingly passed legislation introduced by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Rep. Frank Wolf (R-Va.) to create a special envoy at the State Department charged with focusing exclusively on the plight of religious minorities in South Central Asia and the Middle East. The bill passed the House by a vote of 402 to 22. Eshoo and Wolf, co-chairs of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, first introduced this legislation in the 112th Congress, prior to recent events in the Middle East that have only further jeopardized religious minorities. In 2011, the bill passed the House by a vote of 402-20, but a hold was placed on it in the Senate. "Religious minorities in the Near East and South Central Asia are confronting deadly threats every day, ranging from discrimination and marginalization to outright violence," Rep. Eshoo said. "This legislation responds to the urgent needs of those Christians and other religious minorities by creating a special envoy at the State Department. A special envoy will help develop policy options to ensure the protection and preservation of these ancient faith communities, as well as serving as a high-level advocate within our own government and with foreign governments. The history of violence against religious minorities must not be allowed to repeat itself." In remarks on the House floor, Rep. Wolf described the tenuous situation of a myriad of persecuted groups, saying, "As we debate this legislation, Coptic Christians are leaving Egypt in droves. As we debate this legislation, seven Baha'i leaders languish unjustly in an Iranian prison as does American citizen Saaed Abedini. As we debate this legislation, Ahmadi Muslims in Pakistan are prohibited from voting and their graves are desecrated. As we debate this legislation, Syrian Christians fear they too will be caught in the crossfire like Iraq's Christians, or worse yet, like Iraq's Jew – that's right, I am told only a single Jew remains in the country where once a vibrant Jewish community flourished." He added, "I urge my colleagues to join me in sending an undeniable message to persecuted people of faith the world over, and just as importantly, to the forces that oppress them, that America – this shining city on a hill as envisioned by our founders – will not be silent in the face of the evil." For more on Eshoo's work on the persecution of religious minorities, click here. To read Eshoo and Wolf's blog post on this topic, click here. ###
09.12.2013	+ SHARE Bipartisan Group Introduces Bill to Protect Americans from Unfair Internet Access Taxation September 12th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Chairman Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Subcommittee Ranking Member Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), and Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) introduced H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act. The Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act keeps Internet access affordable, drives innovation, and promotes access to the Internet as a critical gateway to jobs, education, healthcare, and entrepreneurial opportunities. The bill specifically makes permanent the provisions of the Internet Tax Freedom Act. First enacted in 1998, the Internet Tax Freedom Act placed a moratorium on the ability of state and local governments to impose new taxes on Internet access or to impose multiple or discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. The Senate companion bill (S.1431) to the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act was introduced on August 1, 2013 by Senators Ron Wyden (D-Oreg.) and John Thune (R-S.D.). Below are statements from sponsors Chairman Goodlatte, Congresswoman Eshoo, Subcommittee Chairman Bachus, Subcommittee Ranking Member Cohen, and Congressman Chabot on the introduction of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act. Chairman Goodlatte: "The Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act ensures that Americans can continue to access the Internet tax-free. In this increasingly digital age, Americans rely on access to the Internet to apply for employment, to seek and share innovative ideas, to keep governments accountable, to run small businesses, and to communicate with their families and friends. This legislation will help ensure more Americans have access to this tremendous medium by reducing cost barriers." Congresswoman Eshoo: "Access to the Internet has transformed the lives of millions of Americans, businesses and schools. It has driven us to new heights of innovation and led to billions of dollars in economic growth. Unfortunately, consumers will be faced with new state and local taxes to get online unless Congress permanently extends a ban on Internet access taxation. No one should pay a tax just to access the Internet, and the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act rightfully ensures just that. Its passage would be marked progress toward ensuring the Internet remains universally accessible and encourage its use by all." Subcommittee Chairman Bachus: "The Internet is a vital part of our economy and our daily lives, and there should not be a tax imposed for the simple act of using it. The Internet Tax Freedom Act has had my support since its initial adoption and I am pleased to be a cosponsor of legislation to extend it." Subcommittee Ranking Member Cohen: "The internet has become a driving force in our economy, but regressive taxes on internet access could have a chilling effect that ripples throughout the nation. During these tough economic times, state and local governments are understandably looking to raise revenue needed to provide critical services, but unfair and unnecessary taxes on internet access—a cornerstone of our 21st century lives—are not the right way to do it. The Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act will help prevent unreasonable price increases for consumers that ultimately harm our businesses and stunt our economic growth." Congressman Chabot: "When we first enacted the Internet tax moratorium back in 1998, the rapid growth of the Internet had made it an enticing target for hundreds of taxing jurisdictions across the country. In the years since, the Internet has continued to grow and to thrive free from the stifling effects of overtaxation, and is now an indispensable tool for commerce, education and social interaction. Making the Internet tax moratorium permanent will ensure that this valuable tool remains accessible and affordable for millions of American families now and in the future. I thank Chairman Goodlatte for working with me and my colleagues to draft this important legislation." ###
09.12.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Call for FCC to Examine Cause of Deficient Location Information from Wireless Calls to 9-1-1 September 12th, 2013 WAHSINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and 12 members of the California delegation are urging the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to examine the cause of deficient location information from wireless phone calls to 9-1-1. A recent report found that 9-1-1 calls made from wireless phones in five areas of the state are increasingly failing to connect location information with 9-1-1 operators. First responders use this information to help locate 9-1-1 emergencies. "With an increasing number of 9-1-1 calls being placed from wireless phones, accurate location information ensures our first responders are able to render assistance in a timely manner," the members wrote in a letter to Acting FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn. "To that end, we urge you to carefully review all available data, including the CALNENA report and relevant mobile carrier information to determine the underlying factors for this trend." The letter noted that an estimated 70 percent of 9-1-1 calls are placed from wireless phones, yet, more than half of wireless 9-1-1 calls made from 2008 through 2012 in San Francisco, Pasadena, Bakersfield, San Jose and Ventura County did not connect the required information with emergency operators. Understanding that some wireless 9-1-1 calls may be failing to connect location information with 9-1-1 operators because they are made from indoors, the members wrote, "We urge [the FCC] to proceed expeditiously with the adoption of a proposed rulemaking to ensure first responders have the necessary information to locate calls made to 9-1-1 from both outdoor and indoor locations." The following members signed the letter: Reps. Henry A. Waxman (CA-33), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Doris O. Matsui (CA-6), Mike Honda (CA-17), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Sam Farr (CA-20), Gloria Negrete McLeod (CA-35), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Jerry McNerney (CA-9), Loretta Sanchez (CA-46), Mike Thompson (CA-5). A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
09.11.2013	+ SHARE First Reviews Are In: Video CHOICE Act Would End TV Blackouts, Provide Greater Consumer Flexibility September 11th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released a draft discussion bill this week to address pitfalls in the current TV programming market. The Video CHOICE (Consumers Have Options in Choosing Entertainment) Act would eliminate television blackouts caused by retransmission consent disputes and give consumers greater flexibility to choose the channels they receive each month from their pay-TV provider. The reactions from key stakeholder groups have been positive. John Breyault, Vice President of Public Policy, Telecommunications and Fraud, National Consumers League (NCL): “Consumers should not be the pawns in the never-ending games of chicken between multi-billion dollar cable companies and broadcast networks. The increasing frequency of television blackouts – 91 in 2012 alone and 80 already this year – demonstrate that the current legal framework regarding retransmission consent is broken. The Video CHOICE Act recognizes this and seeks to implement a range of reforms. We look forward to a thorough debate on the proposals raised by Congresswoman Eshoo.” Peter Davidson, Senior Vice-president of Federal Government Affairs, Verizon: “Representative Eshoo’s legislation highlights the need to fix a broken retransmission consent system that now too often leaves consumers in the dark. We look forward to working with Representative Eshoo and other members of Congress who believe that consumers would be well served by reforming this outdated system.” AT&T: “We applaud Representative Eshoo for seeking to ensure consumers are protected during retransmission consent disputes. As the legislation moves forward, we pledge to work with Rep. Eshoo and others to update a system that oftentimes leads to unnecessary consumer frustrations.” Genny Morelli, President, Independent Telephone & Telecommunications Alliance (ITTA): “ITTA applauds Congresswoman Eshoo’s efforts to reform the outdated retransmission consent rules with release today of the Video [CHOICE] Act of 2013…The key provisions of the Video CHOICE Act are an important first step toward comprehensive, necessary, and long overdue reform of the video marketplace.” John Bergmayer, Senior Staff Attorney, Public Knowledge: “Ranking Member Eshoo’s discussion draft empowers the FCC to protect consumers’ ability to access content during these disputes, and, like the McCain/Blumenthal Bill provides greater choices for consumers in their pay-TV subscription packages. I encourage other members to work with her to move this draft towards introduction.” Jeffrey Blum, Deputy General Counsel, DISH: “We applaud Ranking Member Eshoo for introducing the Video CHOICE Act. Critically, the discussion draft proposes concrete legislative ideas to give consumers greater choice over their programming, tackles the growing problem of bundling of cable channels with network channels, and empowers the FCC with significant authority to curtail blackouts. We look forward to working with Ranking Member Eshoo to ensure that meaningful legislation is passed this Congress to fix the broken retransmission consent system.” American Television Alliance: “[Rep. Eshoo’s] voice is the latest in an every-growing chorus calling for retrans reform and her bill is a step in the right direction. Consumers continue to be hit with more and more blackouts and we encourage Congress to consider reform immediately.” Matthew M. Polka, President and CEO, American Cable Association (ACA): “To her great credit, Rep. Eshoo has proposed a set of commonsense reforms. ACA agrees that the nation’s top media regulator—the Federal Communications Commission—should have the authority to prevent TV signal blackouts as part of its mandate to protect the public interest, convenience and necessity. We also agree with Rep. Eshoo that consumers should not have to buy local TV stations that elect retransmission consent as part of their pay-TV package.” Shirley Bloomfield, CEO, The Rural Broadband Association (NTCA): “I commend Congresswoman Eshoo for introducing this legislative proposal to address many of the problems that exist with our country’s current retransmission consent rules… My hope is that this bill will serve as a catalyst for more discussion of how we can bring retransmission rules in line with modern-day consumer preferences and ensure that access to video programming continues to serve as a stimulant to broadband adoption.” James Campbell, Regional Vice President of Public Policy, CenturyLink: “[W]e commend Ranking Member Eshoo for her leadership in circulating a discussion draft of The Video Choice Act. [It is] an essential element in a process that Congress must begin soon.” ###
09.11.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Syria September 11th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) released the following statement on the issue of Syria: “I welcome President Obama’s announcement and commend him for pursuing the Russian diplomatic proposal to disarm and destroy Syria’s arsenal of chemical weapons. This diplomatic path holds out hope for the world that the situation can be addressed in a way that has always been one of America’s great strengths—leading with integrity to avert war. “Our most solemn responsibility as Members of Congress is to use our best judgment to protect the national security of our nation. A decision to use military force therefore requires we be able to answer the following questions: Is this in the national security interests of the U.S.? Will this action make us safer? Will it make the Syrian people safer? Does Syria pose an imminent threat to the United States? “There is no question that striking Syria is an act of war. It would be preemptive, unilateral, and contrary to how the U.S. has conducted its foreign policy for decades. “I am not naïve about the very real dangers our nation faces, but these dangers cannot be removed by military action alone. In fact, the distinguished Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, made this clear in his recent testimony to Congress: ‘Militarily, I can state that we can achieve the goal of deterring and degrading. Take note that I didn’t say we can prevent.’ “What is more determinative is the power of our ideas, rather than the power of our military. There is a place for military action, but Syria is not that place. “When the U.S. strayed from its historical moorings, we learned painful and costly lessons that might alone does not get the job done. Instead of diplomacy, containment and coalitions, our military interventions, invasions and surges have left countries in turmoil and emboldened jihadists, making the world more dangerous. We must learn from the lessons of recent history, or we will repeat the failures. “I believe a preemptive and unilateral strike against Syria is wrong. “I believe it will make the world more dangerous, not safer. “I believe it will not reverse the tide on the ground in Syria. “I believe that using force for the sake of force is not in the interest of our national security and will be counterproductive. “I believe, as do thousands of my constituents, that going to war against Syria—regardless of how targeted or limited the strikes—will implicate the U.S. in a civil war, cause possible retaliations in the region destabilizing it even more, and add to the ill will against our country. “I will cast a ‘no’ vote to the President’s request for authorization to strike Syria should it be taken up by the U.S. House of Representatives.” ###
09.11.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Industry Solution to Wireless Interoperability September 11th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement praising the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) announcement of a voluntary industry solution to achieve interoperability in the lower 700 MHz band of wireless spectrum: “The announcement of a voluntary industry solution to achieve interoperability in the lower 700 MHz band is a win for all consumers. I congratulate FCC Chairwoman Clyburn and the wireless industry for forging an agreement that promotes robust competition, innovation and the continued growth of the wireless marketplace. “On the anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks, this agreement coupled with the important work underway to build a nationwide, interoperable public safety network will ensure our first responders are equipped with the 21st century tools needed to communicate seamlessly.” In January, Rep. Eshoo urged the Commission to develop a solution to interoperability in the 700 MHz band in a joint letter with Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Reps. Doris O. Matsui (D-Calif.) and Michael F. Doyle (D-Pa.). ###
09.09.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Releases Draft Bill to Address TV Programming Pitfalls September 9th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In advance of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee hearing this week on innovation versus regulation in the video marketplace, Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) released draft discussion legislation. The Video CHOICE (Consumers Have Options in Choosing Entertainment) Act is intended to eliminate television blackouts caused by retransmission consent disputes and give consumers greater flexibility to choose the channels they receive each month from their pay-TV provider. The discussion draft comes just after the conclusion of a month long retransmission consent dispute between Time Warner Cable and CBS, which resulted in a programming blackout that impacted several million consumers in eight U.S. markets. During the blackout, CBS also blocked access to its online video content for Time Warner Cable customers. “A vibrant video marketplace is one in which there is healthy competition, consumer choice and basic protections to ensure consumers aren’t caught in the middle of a dispute they have no control over,” Eshoo said. “Recurring TV blackouts, including the 91 U.S. markets impacted in 2012, have made it abundantly clear that the FCC needs explicit statutory authority to intervene when retransmission disputes break down. This discussion draft is intended to spur constructive, actionable debate on ways to improve the video marketplace for video content creators, pay-TV providers and, most importantly, consumers.” The Video CHOICE Act has five key provisions: Preventing Broadcast Television Blackouts Gives the FCC explicit statutory authority to grant interim carriage of a television broadcast station during a retransmission consent negotiation impasse. Ensuring Consumer Choice in Cable Programming Ensures that a consumer can purchase cable television service without subscribing to the broadcast stations electing retransmission consent. Wholesale Unbundling of Broadcast Stations in Retransmission Consent Negotiations Prohibits a television broadcast station engaged in a retransmission consent negotiation from making their owned or affiliated cable programming a condition for receiving broadcast programming. Examination into the Blocking of a Broadcast Station’s Owned or Affiliated Online Content During Retransmission Consent Negotiations Instructs the FCC to examine whether the blocking of a television broadcast station’s owned or affiliated online content during a retransmission consent negotiation constitutes a failure to negotiate in “good faith.” FCC Study of Sports Programming Costs Calls for an FCC study of programming costs for regional and national sports networks in the top 20 regional sports markets. 9.9.13_Video_CHOICE_Act_Draft_Bill_Text.pdf ###
09.02.2013	+ SHARE Reps Zoe Lofgren & Anna G Eshoo Release Letter to Ambassador Susan Rice on the Potential Authorization of US Military Action in Syria September 2nd, 2013 Palo Alto, Calif. – Following a conference call held earlier today with Members of the U.S. House Democratic Caucus, Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following letter to Susan Rice, the National Security Advisor to the President, regarding the potential authorization of U.S. military action in Syria. The two lawmakers previously have asked the White House to provide more information to Congress following the President's statement on August 31, 2013. Click here for a pdf copy of the letter, the text of which is pasted below: September 2, 2013 The Honorable Susan E. RiceNational Security AdvisorThe White HouseWashington, D.C. Dear Ambassador Rice: We participated in this morning's conference call with yourself, Secretary of State John Kerry, Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, DNI James Clapper and General Martin Dempsey, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. We appreciate the unclassified information shared with us and the serious nature of the questions that face the Congress and our country. Because of the short time frame, the call ended before we were able to pose our questions. We plan to attend the classified briefings offered on the issue of whether chemical weapons were used and by whom when Congress reconvenes. However, based on all we have heard so far, we are inclined to conclude they have been used and want to focus on the real questions that face the United States. What should we do, why, and what are the implications? We had previously issued a statement containing a series of questions on August 31st. We believe it is important for the administration to answer each of these questions. A copy of our statement is enclosed, and we look forward to your answers. This morning's discussion stimulated several other questions that we feel must be answered. First, if our efforts are to "degrade" the Assad regime's chemical weapons capacity, what exactly does that mean? If the Assad regime is able to continue to deploy chemical weapons, then to what extent will the regime have capacity to use them again? We understand, and concur with the assertion, that specific targets of a military assault should not be shared. Our question has to do with what Syria and the Assad regime's capacity would be expected to look like after your proposed military attack. Second, what would the United States do if, after a military attack, chemical weapons are used again in Syria? What would the United States do if retaliation against Israel, Turkey, or Lebanon follows the proposed attack? Third, we understand from Secretary Kerry that Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the Arab League support taking military action. What nations, other than France, are willing to contribute concrete effort (men, material, and arms) to this proposed military attack as opposed to mere verbal support? Will Turkey and Saudi Arabia be actual participants in a military attack? If not, why not? Assuming we attack alone or with France, where does this leave the United States if Syrian civilians die and world public opinion, especially in the Arab world, turns against the attack? If, as Secretary Kerry notes, the world is outraged at Assad's conduct, why does it fall only to the United States to take actual military action? Fourth, it was noted that Russia also opposes the use of chemical weapons. What has not been adequately addressed is what response we expect from Russia if a military attack is undertaken. What are the immediate, short term and long term implications for US-Russian relations? Finally, as DNI Clapper pointed out, while we have scenarios, this would be war and events are not entirely controllable. We understand that it might be unwise to publicly report the various scenarios that detail potential adverse consequences from a military attack although we assume that this analysis has taken place. However, we feel we must learn of the potential adverse impacts of a military attack before a vote on authorization. We will be available for classified briefings on this issue when Congress reconvenes in just a few days to receive these analyses. Sincerely, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) Rep. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) # # #
08.31.2013	+ SHARE Joint Statement from Reps. Zoe Lofgren & Anna G. Eshoo Regarding Congressional Debate and the Potential Authorization of U.S. Military Action in Syria August 31st, 2013 Palo Alto, Calif. – Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following joint statement today regarding Congress and the potential authorization of U.S. military action in Syria: We are pleased that President Obama will seek Congressional authorization before engaging in any military hostilities against Syria. That authorization is legally and constitutionally required – the President cannot legally act alone without the U.S. Congress. This construct is part of the genius of our nation’s democratic system and our Constitutional checks and balances. We welcome the opportunity to listen to the facts of this matter in the most public forum. While a review of the evidence, both classified and unclassified, as to the use of chemical is important, we are already inclined to believe that these horrific weapons were used based on public and social media accounts. We believe that the question before the U.S. Congress is not “can the Obama Administration prove that the Syrian government used chemical weapons?” Rather, the paramount question is, if that is true, “what is the best course for the United States to take, and why?” Here are just a few of the questions that are at the heart of what Congress must debate as we and our colleagues determine the best course for the United States to take: • What role should the United States play in enforcing international treaties prohibiting the use of chemical weapons? • International treaties are frequently violated by various nations. What precedent does it set if the United States acts in this case? Will the U.S. be placed in a position where we must respond whenever treaties are seriously violated? If not, why? • Civilian massacres have occurred in other countries without U.S. military intervention and are occurring today in Egypt, for example. Would action in Syria set a precedent for action in other parts of the world? If not, why not? • Should the U.S. take action when international bodies, including the UN and NATO, have declined to do so? • Should the U.S. take action when the United Nations has asked that we not do so? • Should the U.S. act when other nations decline to participate with our country in taking such action, including Great Britain? Arab nations? • If action is taken by the United States what impact will it have on the future behavior of the Assad regime? On what basis are we concluding that Syria will change its behavior based on a U.S. attack on Syrian targets? • If the U.S. attack is limited in scope and time, what message will that give to Syria as well as other nations such as Iran? If the action is protracted in scope and time, what are the potential costs in American lives and U.S. taxpayer dollars? For U.S. prestige in the world and in the Middle East? • How would U.S. military action against Syria make the American people safer? The Syrian people? The people of Israel? • If a U.S. attack assists the rebels in overthrowing the Assad regime, who takes over in Syria? If the Assad regime falls, will further civil war ensue between competing rebel factions? What role will Al Qaeda play? • The Syrian civil war is also a proxy war for other powers, including Saudi Arabia, Iran, Russia and other non-state actors such as Hezbollah and Al Qaeda. What impact would U.S. action have on these other actors? • Will the unrest in Syria spread in the region if the U.S. acts? If the U.S. does not act? • What impact would U.S. action have on our closest ally in the region, Israel? Would a U.S. attack on Syria lead to retaliatory attacks against Israel or others? What will the reaction of Israel be in that case? What U.S. action would then be required? • If our country decides that some action by the U.S. is required, what should that action be? Should further diplomatic efforts, as opposed to military action, be considered? Are there feasible sanctions that could be put in place? Other actions? • If military action is proposed, what are the targets, the scope and the cost? What is expected to be accomplished and how will that serve the interests of the United States? Syria? The Middle East? The World? • What is our strategy for Syria (and for the Middle East generally) and how would military action support or damage that strategy? • If the Assad regime, or even the rebels, were to engage in actions that appear to violate international treaties including the use of chemical weapons in the future what action would the U.S. take? What would be the consequences of further action or inaction in such a case in terms of spread of war, entanglement of the U.S. in the Syrian civil war, U.S. reputation around the world, and the perception of American strength and resolve by Iran and North Korea? To what extent is the U.S. “painting ourselves into a corner” by attacking Syria now? Will that force us to attack again in response to further violations? If not, why? • What impact would U.S. military action have on relations between Russia and our country? What are the short and long term implications for Russia and the U.S., including efforts to continue the reduction of nuclear arms by our two nations? • What are the possible adverse results of U.S. military action in Syria? What steps have been taken to address those potential adverse impacts? What is the “end game?” We hope the Congressional debate will be carried out at the highest level, with the result that the United States acts, or does not act, after the most deliberative consideration. In that regard, we ask the President to make his case in the light of public scrutiny, not by “classified” briefings that are kept from the American people and which Members of Congress are prohibited from discussing publicly. This debate will have its needed effect only if it is fully transparent. We pledge to our constituents and fellow Americans that we will carefully weigh the facts and options that face the United States at this juncture. We look forward to debating and hearing answers to these questions, and other relevant ones that may emerge, as we examine the facts and further hear from our constituents on this very serious issue facing our country. # # #
08.22.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Holds Community Meeting on Comprehensive Immigration Reform August 22nd, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Committed to bipartisan, comprehensive reform of the U.S. immigration system, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) held a community meeting today at the Campbell City Council Chambers to discuss the legislative proposals currently in Congress. Eshoo listened to and addressed comments, questions and concerns from constituents regarding the state of immigration in the U.S. and what can be done to address the deteriorating system. "Our immigration system is failing us. It's failing millions of immigrants waiting to legally come to our shores. And it's failing millions of undocumented immigrants who already call the U.S. home," Rep. Eshoo said. "Great innovators and entrepreneurs are sidelined, contributing their talents and ideas to foreign countries instead of ours. Our economy is stifled, families are divided, and our borders are buckling. It's up to Congress to pass bipartisan, comprehensive legislation that will bring the U.S. immigration system into the 21st century." Background Rep. Eshoo supports comprehensive reform of the U.S. immigration system and believes legislation should include the following if the system is to succeed: A 21st century visa program to encourage innovation and ensure our country attracts the world's brightest minds for decades to come. A timely pathway to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants who are American in every way except in the eyes of our immigration laws. Effectively and incrementally secure our borders and hold employers accountable for employing undocumented workers through an effective e-verify program. The elimination of decades-long backlogs for Green Cards, which keep families apart and create drag on our economy. To learn more about the above goals for immigration legislation, please read Rep. Eshoo's recent e-newsletter titled, "Building a U.S. Immigration System for the 21st Century." ###
08.06.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Time Warner Cable/CBS Blackout August 6th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement: “It has been my long held belief that consumers should not be held hostage when retransmission disputes break down. Unfortunately, programming blackouts such as the one underway in eight U.S. markets have become far too common for consumers who simply want to enjoy the programming they pay for each month. “I urge Time Warner Cable and CBS to reach a swift resolution that reinstates programming to millions of consumers across the country. I also intend to carefully examine whether changes to current law are needed to adequately protect consumers and prevent the reoccurrence of blackouts.” ###
08.02.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Casts 40th Vote to Protect Rights of Americans Under Affordable Care Act August 2nd, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) released the following statement after voting against the 40th attempt by Republicans in the House to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which would strip millions of Americans of their rights under the law: “This is the 40th time that Republicans have attempted to take away rights which Americans are legally entitled to under the law, and confirmed by the United States Supreme Court. There has never been such an effort in the history of our country where a measure has been taken up 40 times. “Americans stand to lose their right to affordable prescription drugs; preventive services without co-pays; plain language explanation of benefits; and the guarantee that health care premiums are actually spent on medical care instead of expensive ads. Children stand to lose the ability to stay on their parent’s insurance policy up to the age of 26, and return to the days when insurers could discriminate against those who have preexisting conditions. “I believe Republicans are on the wrong side of history, and no matter how many times they attempt to take these rights away, I will vote against this march to folly.” ###
08.02.2013	+ SHARE Bipartisan Committee Leaders Request Updated Data on Universal Service Fund August 2nd, 2013 WASHINGTON, DC – Bipartisan leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee today requested data from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regarding funding distribution and reform efforts in the Universal Service Fund (USF). Full committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-MI) and Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-CA) are seeking an update to similar bipartisan committee letters that were sent in the 112th Congress. In the letter to the FCC, the committee leaders wrote, “We are writing to ask that the Commission provide an update to that earlier information request. Since the committee’s last request, the FCC has continued to implement significant efforts to reform both the high-cost and low-income support programs. We have modified our data request to reflect the changes underway in both programs.” Upton and Walden commented, “Americans pay nearly $9 billion dollars into the Universal Service Fund each year. Today’s letter continues a standing bipartisan request to the FCC for data to aid the committee in its oversight of the fund, prevent waste, fraud and abuse, and ensure the taxpayers are getting the most benefit for every USF dollar.” “This is the sixth year that I’ve requested this type of information from the FCC in order to better understand where and how billions of dollars in Universal Service subsidies are spent each year,” said Waxman. “The FCC has made a significant commitment to modernize these programs and ensure scarce public dollars are used effectively. I will continue to push the FCC to pursue USF reforms that benefit American consumers and crack down on waste, fraud, and abuse.” “By the FCC’s own estimate, 18 million Americans remain without access to high-speed Internet,” said Eshoo. “This lack of robust broadband access continues to be particularly pervasive in rural and tribal lands. Our data request ensures that the committee has the most up-to-date performance information so that Universal Service subsidies can be maximized to spur further broadband growth in critical areas of the United States.” ###
08.01.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Reduce Student Loan Interest Rates August 1st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) issued the following statement after voting in favor of legislation that implements a new formula to reduce interest rates on federal student loans, alleviating millions of students and their families from the recently doubled interest rate of 6.8 percent. It is estimated that the new interest rate will be 3.86 percent this year for undergraduate students and 5.42 percent for graduate students. The Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act passed the House by a vote of 392 to 31, and now heads to the President to be signed into law. “Making college more affordable is directly linked to our nation’s future success,” Eshoo said. “This bipartisan bill provides immediate relief for students and their families by reducing rates on all new student loans this year, capping market-based interest rates, and saving undergraduates an average of $1,500 over the life of their loans. This is a bipartisan plan, and I’m relieved that Congress finally addressed this pressing issue for millions of students and families facing the high cost of college.” Background Interest rates on student loans automatically doubled on July 1 to 6.8 percent after Congress failed to meet the deadline to prevent the rate increase. In May, House Republicans passed H.R. 1911, a student loan bill that would have set the interest rate to the market. According to the Congressional Research Service, under the Republican bill, students who borrow the maximum amount of need-based loans over five years would have paid nearly $2,000 more in interest costs than if they paid the 6.8 percent rate. By contrast, the bipartisan legislation passed by the House yesterday, originally introduced as S.1334 but passed as an amendment to H.R. 1911, benefits students and families in a number of ways, including: Provides Students $25 Billion in Debt Relief Over the Next Five Years. Under the bipartisan legislation, college students and their families will save $25 billion in lower interest costs from 2013-2018, compared to current interest rates. By contrast, the original House-passed Republican bill would have cost students $1 billion over the same period of time. Locks in Interest Rates for the Life of the Loan. The bipartisan legislation allows students to lock in today’s historic low interest rates for the life of the loan and “know what they owe” before signing on the bottom line. By contrast, the House-passed Republican bill would have provided a teaser rate today but balloons in future years on the same loans as interest rates rise, leaving students guessing what they will owe. Provides a Reasonable Cap to Protect Students from Rising Interest Rates. Because Senate Republicans finally dropped their opposition to caps, the bipartisan legislation now has interest rate caps that allow students to fully benefit when interest rates are very low, but protects them when interest rates go up sharply by capping them at 8.25 percent for undergraduates and 9.5 percent for graduates. The bipartisan bill has lower interest rate caps for undergraduates compared to the original House-passed Republican bill (8.25 percent versus 8.5 percent). The bipartisan legislation is supported by a coalition of the nation’s leading student, civil rights, higher education, and financial aid organizations. For more information on the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act, click here. ###
08.01.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Bipartisan Coalition Seeking Answers from Treasury on Sequestered FDA User Fees August 1st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Authors of legislation to exempt Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fees from sequestration are seeking answers from the Treasury Department to questions about where the funds are being held and how they are being used. Under sequestration, the FDA is set to lose $85 million in user fees in fiscal year 2013 alone. User fees are paid by private companies to the FDA to fund the approval of safe and effective drugs and medical devices. The bipartisan group led by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) sent their request to Treasury Secretary Jack Lew and Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Director of the Office of Management and Budget. A copy of their letter can be found here. “Our questions aim to shed light on the Treasury Department’s plans for sequestered FDA user fees, which to our knowledge are lingering idly in a bank account,” Eshoo said. “If the goal of sequestration is to limit public spending, withholding private monies makes no sense.” Background The following organizations support the FDA SOS Act: AdvaMed California Healthcare Institute (CHI) Medical Device Manufacturers Association (MDMA) Genentech Gilead Patient Services Inc. The National Health Council Leukemia Lymphoma Society PhRMA ALS Association BIO HealthCare Institute of New Jersey American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network, Inc. Johnson and Johnson Generic Pharmaceutical Association USAgainst Alzheimer’s Parkinson’s Action Network Bavarian Nordic FDA user fees are designed to supplement Congressional appropriations and help to expedite the approval process for new medical therapies. An efficient FDA encourages innovation, promotes economic growth, and improved the outcomes of patients. Pharmaceutical user fees were first introduced in 1992 in response to dangerously slow approval times for new drugs. After witnessing the success of drug user fees, Rep. Eshoo wrote legislation to create medical device user fees which have been in effect since 2002. These user fees have come to represent a vital collaboration between the FDA and industry. Just last year, Congress passed legislation to renew and increase FDA user fees in return for a strengthened and improved review process. Text of the FDA SOS Act can be found here. An FDA SOS Act fact sheet can be found here. ###
07.31.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Proposes Amendment to Require FCC Examination of “Below-the-Line” Fees July 31st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, will offer an amendment to the FCC Consolidated Reporting Act of 2013 at today's Energy and Commerce Committee markup of the bill. Her amendment requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to include in its Communications Marketplace Report an examination of "below-the-line" fees used by wireless and wireline providers and their impact on consumers. "I've examined the websites of the largest U.S. communications companies, and as an educated consumer, it's not easy to find these fees," Eshoo said. "Sometimes they're noted with an asterisk in small print. Other times consumers have to click through multiple web pages before getting an estimate. The bottom line is that they're not listed in the advertised price of monthly service." Eshoo requested more information from seven of the largest U.S. telephone and Internet service providers earlier this month on their use of "below-the-line" fees, including administrative, recovery, or service fees that are not government-mandated taxes or charges. Recent press reports have indicated these fees are generating hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue for the companies at consumers' expense. "My amendment would ensure that when assessing the state of competition within the communications marketplace, the FCC consider the impact of 'below-the-line' fees on consumers and their ability to compare competing offers," Eshoo concluded. A copy of the text of Rep. Eshoo's amendment can be found here. ###
07.31.2013	+ SHARE On 48th Anniversary of Medicare, Eshoo Delivers with Program Improvements July 31st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) released the following statement after the Energy and Commerce Committee voted in favor of the Medicare Patient and Quality Improvement Act of 2013. The legislation updates Medicare by repealing the outdated Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) and replaces it with a new system to reimburse physicians for Medicare services. The bill also fixes the broken “GPCI” issue in California, where several urban, high-cost-of-living counties are still considered rural by outdated Medicare maps and are underpaid by the program. Rep. Eshoo played a key role in negotiating both provisions into the legislation which was approved by the Energy and Commerce Committee a day after the 48th anniversary of Medicare’s enactment. It now awaits consideration by the House Ways and Means Committee. “As Medicare approaches its bicentennial birthday, we celebrate the tremendous success of the program in providing seniors and people with disabilities with health care security,” said Eshoo, who serves as a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This year alone because of the Affordable Care Act, more than 7,000 Medicare patients in my Congressional District have received an average of $920 per person in discounts on their prescription drugs, with more to come.” “Today we can say we’re working to improve Medicare for the patients who rely on it, the doctors who treat them, and the program’s longevity,” Eshoo continued. “With an innovative, permanent fix to the outdated Sustainable Growth Rate system, doctors can focus on patient care rather than their reimbursement. And the broken ‘GPCI’ model in California could be a thing of the past, as a new provision in the bill increases long-overdue payments for underpaid counties like Santa Cruz in my Congressional District, meaning a fairer deal for doctors and patients.” SGR Fix The SGR was created in 1997 because of concerns that the Medicare fee schedule would not adequately constrain overall increases in cost for physician services. In the first few years of the SGR system, Medicare expenditures did not exceed the intended financial targets, and the updates to the physician fee schedule were on track. But beginning in 2002, the actual expenditures exceeded allowed targets and the discrepancy has grown with each passing year. Each year, Congress has passed a “band-aid fix” so that doctors wouldn’t receive a reduction in payments. The SGR “repeal and replace” policy in the Committee-passed legislation is a permanent fix that would give doctors a 0.5 percent increase for five years. After five years, doctors would continue this minimum “base payment” with the opportunity for a 1.5 percent increase annually based on defined quality measures. The bill also allows doctors to opt-out of the traditional fee for service program at any time and participate in alternative payment models. “GPCI” Fix “GPCI,” or Geographic Pricing Cost Index, is used by Medicare to adjust physician reimbursement rates to account for regional and practice-specific factors. Outdated Medicare maps in California have resulted in the “GPCI” calculating underpayment to counties that have become urbanized and have a high cost of living, such as Santa Cruz County in Rep. Eshoo’s congressional district, which has been underpaid since 1999. Today, doctors in Santa Cruz County are paid almost $2.5 million less per year, often leaving Medicare patients scrambling to find a doctor who will provide care. The Medicare Patient and Quality Improvement Act of 2013 corrects this inequity and holds all counties harmless while increasing payments for underpaid counties. ###
07.26.2013	+ SHARE Effort to Streamline FCC Reporting, Eliminate Obsolete Telegraph Requirement Gains Momentum in the House and Senate July 26th, 2013 WASHINGTON, DC – The effort to streamline the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) reporting process is gaining momentum in Congress. Reps. Steve Scalise (R-LA) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) today introduced the FCC Consolidated Reporting Act, H.R. 2844, and Senator Dean Heller (R-NV) is set to introduce the Senate version Monday to reduce the burden on the FCC to produce multiple reports and instead require the production of one comprehensive and informative review of the marketplace. The House and Senate legislation would combine eight annual reports into a single biennial Communications Marketplace Report, and repeals the annual Telegraph Report, which was signed into law in 1934. The House Energy and Commerce Committee has scheduled a vote on the legislation next Wednesday. “The reports Congress has mandated the FCC to produce over the years are rarely submitted on time and do not always reflect the current state of competition in the marketplace adequately. Democrats and Republicans agree that it makes sense to consolidate these reports and issue them at one time in the beginning of a new Congress. Such a move will reduce reporting burdens on the FCC and private industry while giving a cleaner picture of competition in the marketplace. Chairman Walden and I are committed to working across the aisle and with the Federal Communication Commission as we advocate for this common sense reform in our respective Chambers of Congress,” said Senator Heller. “Requiring telegraph reporting in the smart phone age makes no sense and is a waste of taxpayer dollars. Crafting a more nimble government for an information economy has been a goal of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and today’s introduction of the bipartisan FCC Consolidated Reporting Act is a positive step toward achieving that goal,” said House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR), whose subcommittee approved the measure by voice vote Thursday. “Eliminating the telegraph report and creating one report on the many, increasingly commingled aspects of the communications marketplace are commonsense reforms that will reduce the burden on the FCC and result in a more meaningful analysis for policymakers and the public. I am pleased that the bill is moving expeditiously in the House and am hopeful that the Senate will address the companion legislation soon to be introduced by Senator Heller.” “The FCC Consolidated Reporting Act is another step in the process of streamlining government so that businesses can focus their resources on growing and creating jobs, rather than being burdened by outdated regulations from the federal government,” said Scalise. “Every dollar spent on outdated FCC reporting mandates is a dollar that could be used to create jobs and build-out infrastructure. Too often, Congress puts more laws on the books which convolute and distort the rules, but this bipartisan effort in the House that I’m proud to lead will actually shrink and streamline the government.” “The FCC Consolidated Reporting Act recognizes that there are opportunities to streamline many of the outdated reporting requirements Congress has placed on the FCC. At a time when agency resources are limited, we should ensure the FCC is as efficient as possible to best serve the American people,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. ###
07.24.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes in Favor of Barring NSA from Indiscriminate Surveillance of Americans July 24th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), a former eight-year veteran of the House Intelligence Committee, issued the following statement after voting in favor of an amendment to this year’s defense spending bill that would require the National Security Agency (NSA) to use its resources to gather information only on subjects of national security investigations, rather than on all Americans. The amendment failed by a vote of 205 to 217. “It was never the intent of Congress in passing the PATRIOT Act to allow for a dragnet surveillance program that captures the communications of all Americans,” Eshoo said. “I recognize that our counterterrorism agencies need investigative tools to keep us safe, but the Administration’s indiscriminate seizure of phone records unnecessarily tramples personal privacy and civil liberties. The critical balance between national security and the constitutional rights of the American people must always be honored.” A leaked court order recently revealed that the NSA uses its authority under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act of 2001 to collect the general telephone records of Americans, specifically who they call and when. Under current law, Section 215 allows the government to collect this data if it certifies to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) that the records are “relevant” to a foreign intelligence or international terrorism investigation. The recent leak of the FISC’s classified order makes clear that the Administration believes all calls made within the U.S. are relevant to an investigation of foreign intelligence or international terrorism. “My vote barring the NSA from engaging in blanket surveillance programs was aimed at reforming how the NSA carries out its responsibilities to protect our country, minus a massive dragnet.” ###
07.19.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Recognized for Protecting National Parks July 19th, 2013 Voting Record Earns National Friends Award WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) has been honored by the National Parks Conservation Association (NPCA) with the “Friend of the National Parks Award.” This is the 6th time she has won the award for demonstrating extraordinary dedication to the protection and enhancement of America’s national parks. “It is not what we have that will make us a great nation; it is the way in which we use it,” Eshoo stated, quoting the founder of America’s conservation movement, President Teddy Roosevelt. Eshoo continued, “Conservation of our nation’s land is a critical and worthy cause that I’m grateful to have an active role in. From preserving California coastal and ocean resources, to ensuring that our endangered species are protected, I’ve always fought for the conservation of our beautiful natural resources. I’m deeply honored to receive the ‘Friend of the National Parks Award,’ and I will continue to support and defend the standards and integrity of the National Park System.” NPCA Acting President Theresa Pierno congratulated all the recipients of the award stating, “We are grateful that our members of Congress have demonstrated a solid commitment to preserving America’s national parks. As the National Park Service approaches its centennial in 2016, support from our members of Congress is essential to ensure places like Yellowstone, Gettysburg, and the Everglades are preserved and protected for our children and grandchildren to enjoy.” In the 113th Congress, Rep. Eshoo cosponsors H.R. 627, the National Park Service 100th Anniversary Commemorative Coin Act, which would authorize the minting of a series of commemorative coins in honor of the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service. This bill will not cost the taxpayers any money, and all proceeds from sales of the commemorative coins will go to the National Park Foundation. In a true display of the broad bipartisan support for our national parks, this bill has nearly 300 cosponsors in the House of Representatives. A photo of Rep. Eshoo with her award can be found here. ###
07.19.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Proposed E-Rate Rulemaking July 19th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement in support of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) notice of proposed rulemaking to modernize the E-Rate program. “I fully support the steps the FCC is taking to modernize the E-Rate program so that our schools and libraries can keep up with the digital demands of the 21st century,” Eshoo said. “Expanding the speed of broadband, not just availability, is essential to this endeavor, and the proposed rulemaking will help advance America’s classrooms and libraries.” Earlier this year, Rep. Eshoo joined FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel in proposing a modernized E-Rate program for America’s schools and libraries. The two called for every school and library to have access to broadband at 100 megabits per 1,000 students by 2015. By the end of the decade, Eshoo and Rosenworcel called for every school and library to have access to 1 gigabit per 1,000 students. “We live in a world where broadband is a necessity, not a luxury, for the next generation to learn and compete,” Eshoo concluded. ###
07.18.2013	+ SHARE Bipartisan Group Introduces Bill Exempting FDA User Fees from Sequestration July 18th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—A bipartisan group of House Members introduced today the FDA Safety Over Sequestration Act, or FDA SOS Act, which exempts Food and Drug Administration (FDA) user fees from sequestration. FDA user fees are 100 percent industry-financed and are used specifically for the approval of safe and effective drugs and devices. Under sequestration, the FDA is set to lose $85 million in user fees in fiscal year 2013 alone. The authors of the bill, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Leonard Lance (R-N.J.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.), have grave concerns that the FDA will be unable to meet its Congressionally-mandated responsibilities unless its user fees are exempted from sequestration. “It’s extremely troubling that the FDA’s industry-financed user fees are being sequestered. If the intent of sequestration is to limit public spending, withholding private monies is counterintuitive,” said Eshoo, who serves as a senior member on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Whether one agrees or disagrees with sequestration, I don’t believe private dollars should be held hostage by the policy. It discourages investment in medical innovation and denies patients access to timely therapies.” “Passage of this important legislation to protect the FDA’s access to industry user fees will help ensure that millions of Americans will continue to benefit from medicines and medical devices that are safe and effective,” said Lance, a member of the Energy and Commerce and member of the Health Subcommittee. “This legislation is essential to ensure that the FDA is able to fully achieve its performance targets in the clinical testing and approval of the innovative therapies that millions of people are hoping and waiting for. These patients, many of whom are battling deadly diseases, should not be deprived of potentially lifesaving therapies due to delays caused by political gamesmanship in Washington. It is my hope that we move quickly to pass this critical bill so the FDA can move forward with its mission of saving lives,” said Matsui, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “It is critically important that industry-financed user fees are used for the purpose for which they were intended—preserving America’s status as the world leader in medical innovation by ensuring an efficient and predictable review process for new medicines” said Rogers, senior member on the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Without these privately-funded user fees, the FDA would be unable to keep pace with the newest scientific discoveries, lengthening review times and seriously jeopardizing the time patients in the U.S. wait for lifesaving treatments.” Background The legislation is supported by PhRMA, AdvaMed, the Medical Device Manufacturers Association, California Healthcare Institute, Leukemia Lymphoma Society, Gilead, Genentech, Patient Services Inc., and the National Health Council. FDA user fees are designed to supplement Congressional appropriations and help to expedite the approval process for new medical therapies. An efficient FDA encourages innovation, promotes economic growth, and improved the outcomes of patients. Pharmaceutical user fees were first introduced in 1992 in response to dangerously slow approval times for new drugs. After witnessing the success of drug user fees, Rep. Eshoo wrote legislation to create medical device user fees which have been in effect since 2002. These user fees have come to represent a vital collaboration between the FDA and industry. Just last year, Congress passed legislation to renew and increase FDA user fees in return for a strengthened and improved review process. FDA_SOS_Act_Bill_Text.pdf 7.18.13_FDA_SOS_Act_Fact_Sheet.pdf ###
07.18.2013	+ SHARE Members Seek Answers from Leading U.S. Communications Companies on Billing Practices July 18th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Four Democratic Members of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee are asking the nation’s leading wireless and wireline providers about recently reported billing practices indicating the companies are nickel-and-diming consumers to boost revenue. Often referred to as “below-the-line” fees, these administrative, recovery or service fees are being added to consumer bills and generating hundreds of millions of dollars for U.S. communications companies. Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and her fellow Subcommittee Members Reps. Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), and Jim Matheson (D-Utah) are leading the inquiry. “Consumers already pay substantial sums for their telephone and Internet service,” Eshoo said. “My hope is that our inquiry will shed some light on billing practices and result in a fairer deal for consumers.” “When consumers sign up for phone service, they deserve transparency and a clear picture of the costs and the charges they will be responsible for each month,” Luján said. “Adding additional fees that are not clearly disclosed harms a consumer’s ability to make the best decision that meets their individual needs and hides the full price they will pay. Companies have a responsibility to provide consumers with a clear picture of the price of the service that they are signing up for.” The Members sent letters today to AT&T, AT&T Mobility, CenturyLink, Sprint, T-Mobile USA, Verizon Communications, and Verizon Wireless. Each company received the same letter, and copies of those letters can be found below. The letters are accompanied with examples of a wireline and wireless provider adding “below-the-line” fees. Those documents can also be found below. Letter_to_ATT_Inc._07-18-13.pdf Letter_to_ATT_Mobility_LLC_07-18-13.pdf Letter_to_CenturyLink_07-18-13.pdf Letter_to_Sprint_07-18-13.pdf Letter_to_T-Mobile_USA_Inc._07-18-13.pdf Letter_to_Verizon_Communications_07-18-13.pdf Letter_to_Verizon_Wireless_07-18-13.pdf Example_of_Wireline_Order_Summary.pdf ###
07.15.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Awards Mountain View Airman with Air Force Commendation Medal July 15th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—At a packed ceremony at Moffett Federal Airfield today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) awarded Mountain View resident and Airman 1st Class Juan C. Aranda, Jr. the Air Force Commendation Medal for his heroism during Hurricane Santa Clara in August, 1956. During the hurricane, which made landfall on Puerto Rico, Mr. Aranda played a crucial role in saving the lives of a father and his three sons who were stranded, but he never received formal recognition. Fifty-seven years after the rescue, Rep. Eshoo intervened on behalf of Mr. Aranda and secured the medal for him from the Air Force. “Today is a momentous day for Airman 1st Class Aranda,” Eshoo said. “Despite his recognition being decades overdue, Mr. Aranda’s actions are an emblem of courage today just as they were 57 years ago. I’m immensely proud to bestow upon him the Air Force Commendation Medal for Act of Courage.” “My reward has always been seeing the look on the father’s face when he saw me next to him. He gave a look of ultimate thanks, and it will always be engrained in my memory,” Aranda said. “But almost 60 years after Hurricane Santa Clara, hearing from Congresswoman Eshoo that I would be receiving this medal meant the world.” “This medal is not just for me,” Aranda continued. “It’s for a team of six people who bravely risked their own lives to save the lives of others in need. It’s for the father who kept his children holding onto that palm tree in the middle of raging waters, close to hypothermia. It’s for all the emergency responders who acted without hesitation or regard for their own lives throughout the ordeal. I humbly accept this medal in their names.” Airman 1st Class Aranda’s Act of Courage In August, 1956, Airman 1st Class Aranda was working air-to-ground communications at Ramey Air Force Base in Puerto Rico. Hurricane Santa Clara had made landfall and was devastating the area with heavy flooding and destruction. When Aranda heard radio broadcasts in the night detailing flooding near his family’s home, he and a friend broke curfew to check on them. Risking his life in 115 mph winds and torrential rain, Aranda traveled to his family’s home 10 miles off the air base to find them safe and sound. On his return to base, local residents stopped Aranda and his friend for help. A father and his three sons had become trapped in a palm tree. Below them was a flooded brook with chest-deep water moving dangerously fast. With just a rope tied around his waist, Aranda, the strong swimmer that he was, dove into the water to help bring the family to dry land. Aranda bridged the rushing water with the rope, allowing bystanders to form a “human chain” and bring the family to safety. Mr. Aranda was praised by the local mayor and Red Cross. Despite almost facing court martial for breaking curfew, he received an honorable discharge from the Air Force in 1961. “The wheels are rolling for an award,” he was told. Unfortunately, Mr. Aranda never heard any further mention of an award from the Air Force, even after writing to the National Personnel Records Center and local military authorities. Last year, Rep. Eshoo took up his cause and wrote to the Secretary of the Air Force, specifically requesting that the military branch review Mr. Aranda’s file for consideration of recognition for his heroism during Hurricane Santa Clara. The Air Force ultimately decided that he would be awarded the Air Force Commendation Medal. ###
07.02.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse Call for Quarterly Progress Reports from FCC on CALM Act July 2nd, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Authors of the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) are calling on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to release quarterly reports on the progress of the new law, which requires commercials to air at a volume consistent with surrounding programming. This comes after the lawmakers received an initial progress report they requested from the Commission. “While the initial data from the FCC does not conclusively indicate the effectiveness of the CALM Act yet, it does demonstrate that consumers remain highly committed to keeping the volume of TV commercials at a reasonable level,” Eshoo said. “I’ve called on the FCC to issue quarterly progress reports on the CALM Act so we know exactly how the law is working for consumers.” “The CALM Act is already cracking down on needlessly loud TV commercials, and quarterly progress reports would provide interested viewers with timely updates on compliance with the law,” said Whitehouse. The FCC’s progress report can be found here. Eshoo and Whitehouse’s request for quarterly reports can be found here. Background: Loud commercials have been a top consumer complaint to the FCC for decades, and were listed as such in 21 of the FCC’s 25 quarterly reports between 2002 and 2009. According to a 2009 Harris poll, almost 90 percent of TV viewers are bothered by high commercial volumes, prompting 41 percent of viewers to turn down the volume, 22 percent to mute the TV, and 17 percent to change the channel altogether. Prior to the CALM Act, the official FCC policy recommended that consumers mute commercials if they found them to be excessively strident. Rep. Eshoo first introduced the CALM Act in the House in June 2008. Senator Whitehouse’s companion bill passed the Senate unanimously on September 29, 2010, and the House passed the legislation on December 2, 2010. President Obama signed Eshoo’s legislation into law on December 15, 2010. The FCC passed its final rules implementing the law in December 2011. FCC Consumer Guide – CALM Act ###
06.28.2013	+ SHARE Silicon Valley Congressional Delegation Proposes PATENT Jobs Act June 28th, 2013 Bill protects self-sustaining U.S. Patent Office from sequestration WASHINGTON, D.C. – Reps. Mike Honda (D-San Jose), Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) and Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Patents And Trademarks Encourage New Technology (PATENT) Jobs Act today to exempt the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) from the debilitating cuts imposed by budget sequestration (bill text). Even though the USPTO is funded solely by patent user fees, the sequester requires cuts of nearly $150 million in the agency’s funding. Without a legislative remedy, the shortfall effectively stops the agency from opening five new, highly anticipated regional patent offices across the country, including one located in Silicon Valley. The USPTO currently has a patent backlog of 640,000 applicants, and the new offices were announced to speed the process for start-ups and innovators who can face a costly two-year wait for a patent to be issued. “USPTO is funded entirely by fees paid to the agency, making it fundamentally different than other government spending,” said Rep. Honda. “Congress intended for these fees to be used solely to carry out USPTO’s operations, not the government at large. Our bill will prevent the application of sequestration to USPTO fee revenue so that the Silicon Valley office can open as scheduled and USPTO can continue the progress that has been made on reducing the patent application backlog, which is vital for ensuring America’s economic competitiveness.” “It is very short-sighted to hold back the new products and cutting edge technologies that can grow our economy,” said Rep. Lofgren. “Our bill is very simple and reaffirms a long held belief that inventors who pay fees should receive speedy services and patents for their inventions. The services and speed these new offices offer can make the difference for products to go from the drawing board to the marketplace faster, benefiting all of us with the growth and job creation that come with it.” “The U.S. Patent Office has been crucial to economic growth and innovation in America. Sequestering this self-funded agency is illogical and sets it up to fail,” Rep. Eshoo said. “These cuts will exacerbate the patent backlog and stifle efforts to connect Silicon Valley innovators with a satellite patent office. Our legislation will enable USPTO to implement reforms and programs years in the making so that the agency can continue to foster the wealth of knowledge and innovation across America.” The PATENT Jobs Act would enable USPTO to access the fee revenue sequestered in Fiscal Year 2013, which would otherwise sit unused and untouchable, and would add USPTO to the list of agencies exempt from sequestration orders. This is not a new budgetary concept; Congress has recognized the uniqueness of user-fee-funded agencies in the past, exempting them from sequestration in the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010. The legislation follows a bipartisan letter sent earlier this week by members of the California delegation to the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Subcommittee asking for a remedy. USPTO announced the selection of Silicon Valley for one of five new regional patent offices last summer. The decision was broadly hailed at the time to strengthen the connection between our nation’s preeminent innovation hub and USPTO, help start-ups and inventors access USPTO resources more easily and effectively, and expedite patent processing for entrepreneurs. A number of trade and industry groups and bar associations have joined in calling upon the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and Congress to address the application of sequestration to USPTO and are supportive of efforts to exempt USPTO from sequestration: Endorsed by the American Intellectual Property Law Association, the American Bar Association, Coalition for 21st Century Patent Reform, and the Intellectual Property Owners Association; The Silicon Valley Leadership Group are calling on OMB and Congress to address the problem; and A coalition of AdvaMed, California Healthcare Institute, CONNECT, the Innovation Alliance, IFPTE, MDMA, NTEU, NVCA, POPA, and WARF have called on Congress to “rectify this unacceptable diversion of fees by restoring to the USPTO all of the fees being paid in 2013 and ensure that future across-the-board cuts will not impact fees paid to the USPTO.” ###
06.27.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Mountain View Airman to Receive Air Force Commendation Medal for Heroism June 27th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Fifty-seven years after Mountain View resident and Airman 1st Class Juan C. Aranda Jr. heroically saved four people stranded in Hurricane Santa Clara, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced that the United States Air Force is awarding him the Air Force Commendation Medal. The announcement comes after Eshoo requested the Secretary of Air Force review Mr. Aranda’s record for consideration of formal recognition. “Airman 1st Class Aranda acted without hesitation and bravely saved the lives of a father and his three sons who became stranded during Hurricane Santa Clara in August, 1956,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With courage and conviction he put his own life at risk when others were in need. I am immensely proud to announce that Mr. Aranda will be awarded the Air Force Commendation Medal.” “In circumstances like the one I encountered that fateful night, you do what you have to do, regardless of the consequences,” Mr. Aranda said after receiving word from Rep. Eshoo he would be awarded the medal. “We are all really here to serve humanity. I just happened to be at the right place at the right time.” Rep. Eshoo, the Department of the Air Force, and the California Air National Guard Unit, the 129th Search and Rescue Wing, will hold a ceremony at Moffett Federal Airfield in Mountain View to present Mr. Aranda with his medal on July 15th at 3:30 p.m. PST. Members of the public are invited to attend. More details will be announced prior to the event. Airman 1st Class Aranda’s Act of Heroism In August 1956, Airman 1st Class Aranda was working air-to-ground communications at Ramey Air Force Base in Puerto Rico. Hurricane Santa Clara had made landfall and was devastating the area with heavy flooding and destruction. When Aranda heard radio broadcasts in the night detailing flooding near his family’s home, he and a friend broke curfew to check on them. Risking his life in 115 mph winds and torrential rain, Aranda traveled to his family’s home 10 miles off the air base to find them safe and sound. But on his way back to base, local residents stopped Aranda and his friend for help. A father and his three sons had become trapped in a palm tree. Below them was a flooded brook with chest-deep water moving dangerously fast. With just a rope tied around his waist, Aranda, the strong swimmer that he was, dove into the water to help bring the family to dry land. Aranda bridged the rushing water with the rope, allowing bystanders to form a “human chain” and bring the family to safety. Mr. Aranda was praised by the local mayor and Red Cross. Despite almost facing court martial for breaking curfew, he received an honorable discharge from the Air Force in 1961. It stated “The wheels are rolling for an award.” Unfortunately, Mr. Aranda never heard any further mention of an award from the Air Force, even after writing to the National Personnel Records Center and local military authorities. That is until Rep. Eshoo wrote to the Secretary of the Air Force last year, specifically requesting that the military branch review Mr. Aranda’s file for consideration of recognition for his heroism during Hurricane Santa Clara. The Air Force ultimately responded by writing that he would be awarded the Air Force Commendation Medal. ###
06.26.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Supreme Court Rulings in Favor of Equality for LGBT Americans June 26th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), member of the LGBT Equality Caucus and longtime advocate for LGBT rights, issued the following statement after the U.S. Supreme Court struck down Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act, and ruled the appeal for California’s Proposition 8 was without standing: “Generations of Americans have fought for the preeminent promise of our country—that every person is afforded the same fundamental rights as stated in our Constitution, with the promise of liberty and justice for all. “Today, the decisions of the Supreme Court make real the words and the promise of our Constitution by striking down unfair barriers for same-sex couples and returning marriage equality to California. Now, the fullness of our Constitution reaches into the lives of millions of Americans, making our nation a more perfect union.” ###
06.18.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo: Congress Must Act Now to Stop the Doubling of Student Loan Rates on July 1st June 18th, 2013 Joins Effort to Force House Republicans to Allow Vote on a Bill Freezing Student Loan Rates at 3.4 Percent for Two Years WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) is taking action to force an up-or-down vote in the House of Representatives on legislation that will prevent the interest rate on need-based student loans from doubling on July 1st. Called the Student Loan Relief Act (H.R. 1595), the bill freezes the interest rate on student loans at 3.4 percent for the next two years. This would give Eshoo’s constituents and millions of students and families nationwide peace of mind that the student loan rate won’t skyrocket. Rep. Eshoo joined her colleagues in signing a Discharge Petition to bring H.R. 1595 to the House floor. “By freezing the current low 3.4 percentage rate for two years, college students will continue to benefit,” Eshoo said. “Congress must act quickly to prevent the rate doubling on July 1st. With a majority of new jobs in the next decade requiring a college degree, it’s an economic necessity that higher education remain an opportunity for every student, not a perk for the privileged few.” Rep. Eshoo and her fellow Democrats launched the Discharge Petition to force a vote on H.R. 1595 because the Republican Leadership has refused to bring it to the House floor for consideration. The Student Loan Relief Act has over 150 cosponsors, yet Republicans will not schedule a hearing or a markup on it. A Discharge Petition requires the House to consider the legislation once a majority (218) of Members of Congress have signed it. There are currently 187 signatures. On May 23rd, House Republicans passed H.R. 1911, a student loan bill that sets the interest rate to the market. According to the Congressional Research Service, under the Republican bill, students who borrow the maximum amount of need-based loans over five years would pay nearly $2,000 more in interest costs than if the interest rate doubled. Senate Democrats have said they will not take up this damaging House bill. “Students and families deserve better than the House Republican bill that would make borrowers pay higher interest payments than they would if Congress did nothing,” Rep. Eshoo concluded. “Total student debt currently stands at $1.1 trillion, greater than total credit card debt. The GOP bill would increase student debt and leave students with no solution as the interest rate is set to double.” Background In 2007, Rep. Eshoo voted to pass the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRAA), which provided relief to students from high interest rates by lowering rates on need-based student loans over a four-year period. The law decreased the interest rate from 6.8 percent in the 2006 – 2007 academic year to 3.4 percent in the 2011 – 2012 academic year. Fifteen million students, including over ten thousand in Eshoo’s district, benefitted from these lower rates with less expensive monthly payments on their loans. Rep. Eshoo voted in 2012 to extend for one year the CCRAA’s provisions to provide relief to students. ###
06.17.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on 50th Annual Small Business Week June 17th, 2013 Urges Action on Budget Agreement WASHINGTON, D.C.—In honor of the 50th Annual National Small Business Week, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) is calling for action on a national budget that replaces the sequester with a balanced agreement to provide certainty to small businesses and a better economic climate for job growth. “Across America this week, the crucial role small businesses play in spurring economic growth and job creation for our country, particularly those in California’s 18th Congressional District, is being celebrated,” said Rep. Eshoo, the daughter of a small businessman. “Small businesses are the bread and butter of the American economy, which is why Congress should be offering legislation to inject confidence in our national economy with a budget agreement that is balanced.” Despite both the House and Senate passing competing budget proposals earlier this year, House Republicans have refused to name conferees to negotiate a budget for the country. Under sequestration, small businesses are estimated to be losing access to more than $900 million in loans, and the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that sequestration will cost 750,000 American jobs this year alone. Located in the heart of California’s 18th Congressional District, Silicon Valley is a hotbed of small businesses in America. According to the Silicon Valley Index, from 2010 to 2011 the region added a total of 46,400 new establishments, up 146 percent over the prior years. Business closings declined 72 percent over the same period. Since 1996, the number of small business loans has increased 237 percent in the region, and total value has grown from $1.88 to $2.01 billion. “I salute the small businesses across America,” Eshoo concluded. “They form the backbone of our national economy, opening new storefronts, training American workers, and innovating new products.” ###
06.14.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on White House Spectrum Initiatives June 14th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement today in response to the White House announcement of new spectrum initiatives: “I welcome the administration’s creation of a spectrum policy team, operating as a joint venture between federal agencies uniquely positioned to maximize the efficiency and value of our nation’s airwaves. Relinquishing or sharing underutilized spectrum can yield more efficient use of this limited resource and help to propel our communications economy even further into the digital age.” ###
06.14.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Markey Welcome FDA Tightening of Security Standards for Medical Devices June 14th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology and Co-chair of the House Medical Technology Caucus, and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, are welcoming action taken by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to tighten security standards for a wide range of medical devices with increased connectivity, such as pacemakers, in response to escalating risk of the devices being hacked and tampered with. The lawmakers called for more stringent security standards for implantable medical devices last year after the findings of a GAO report they requested revealed that some can be remotely controlled by a hacker, posing potentially serious health risks to patients. The FDA is directing medical device manufacturers to specify in detail their plans to eliminate potential cyber threats in their products. The Agency will also be allowed to deny approval of medical devices that do not adequately address potential risks. "I welcome the FDA's tightening of security standards for medical devices capable of connecting to each other, hospital networks and the Internet," Eshoo said. "Medical devices have resulted in tremendous benefits, but the demonstrated risk from malicious hackers that comes with enhanced connectivity requires a more stringent effort by the FDA and manufacturers to identify, evaluate and plug the potentially serious security holes that exist." "We already protect our computers and other communications devices from hackers and other cyber threats, and it makes sense to extend those protections to patients and their medical devices," Markey said. "Patients should only have to worry about getting healthier and not about hackers tampering with their device or accessing their information. I have been concerned about this issue for years, and am encouraged that the FDA is taking action on this issue." ###
06.10.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Enactment of Paycheck Fairness Act on 50th Anniversary of Equal Pay Act June 10th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement to mark the 50th anniversary of President John F. Kennedy signing the Equal Pay Act into law on June 10, 1963: "Fifty years ago when President Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, he stated that 'when women enter the labor force they will find equality in their pay envelopes.' Yet a half century later, women still do not have equality in their pay. In 1963, women made an average of 59 cents for every dollar earned by men. According to a new report from the American Association of University Women, women in California's 18th Congressional District still earn only 74 cents for every dollar earned by men. Today, women nationwide make on average 77 cents for every dollar earned by men—progress, but not nearly enough. "With a record number of women in the workforce, wage discrimination hurts the majority of American families, both in terms of their economic security today and their retirement security tomorrow. This means fewer resources to pay the mortgage, send kids to college, or have a decent retirement. Pay inequity due to gender discrimination is real, it should not be tolerated, and we need to take action against it. The Paycheck Fairness Act is the path forward." Background Rep. Eshoo is an original cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act. The bill builds upon the landmark Equal Pay Act signed into law in 1963 by closing loopholes that have kept it from achieving its goal of equal pay. The bill would require employers to show pay disparity is related to job-performance—not gender. It prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers. Under current law employers can sue and punish employees for sharing such information. In addition, it strengthens remedies for pay discrimination by increasing compensation women can seek, allowing them to not only seek back pay, but also punitive damages for pay discrimination. Finally the bill empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills, and requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities. ###
06.06.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Wholeheartedly Supports White House Plan to Expand K-12 Internet Speeds June 6th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after the White House announced a new initiative to deliver faster broadband Internet access to America’s K-12 schools. Rep. Eshoo and Federal Communications Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel outlined a proposal in line with the President’s in a POLITICO op-ed earlier this week. “I wholeheartedly support the President’s call to modernize the E-Rate program in order to bring faster broadband speeds to our nation’s schools and libraries,” Rep. Eshoo said. “To enable a 21st century digital classroom, supported by high-definition video, cloud-based services and other advanced applications, we need bandwidth — and lots of it. We are moving rapidly toward a world where what matters is capacity, not just access. Now is the time to reshape the E-Rate program to meet that growing need.” ###
06.05.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Congratulates U.S. Physics Team Members from 18th Congressional District June 5th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In her Washington, D.C. office today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) welcomed five visiting members of this year’s U.S. Physics Team who hail from California’s 18th Congressional District. The U.S. team, made up of 20 high school students, is now in the midst of a ten-day “training camp” at the University of Maryland-College Park, after which five team members will be chosen to travel to the 44th International Physics Olympiad in Copenhagen, Denmark. “Bravo to the high school students who made this year’s U.S. Physics Team, especially to the five team members from California’s 18th Congressional District,” said Rep. Eshoo, who is a member of the House Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) Education Caucus. “Today it’s the U.S. Physics Team. Tomorrow it could be a Nobel Prize. The fact that our Congressional District has more team members on this year’s U.S. Physics Team than any other congressional district in the nation is a testament to our region’s commitment to STEM education and competitiveness.” The five 18th District members of the 2013 U.S. Physics Team are: Calvin Huang of Gunn High School; Matthew Huang of The Harker School; Grace Lin of Palo Alto High School; 2012 Silver Medalist, Jeffrey Yan, of Palo Alto High School; and Kevin Zhu of The Harker School. A photo of Rep. Eshoo with U.S. team members from the 18th District can be found here. About the International Physics Olympiad Since 1986, the American Association of Physics Teachers and the American Institute of Physics have sponsored an annual competition for high school students to represent the United States at the International Physics Olympiad. The selection process begins with a nationwide exam, from which 400 students are selected as semi-finalists. The semi-finalists then take a second exam, which is used to select the 20 members of the U.S. team. The International Physics Olympiad is a nine-day annual competition among pre-university students from more than 60 countries. Participants in the competition are tasked with solving complex theoretical and experimental physics problems. This year, the 44th International Physics Olympiad will be held in Copenhagen, Denmark from July 7-15th. ###
06.05.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse Request Progress Report on Law to Stop Loud TV Commercials June 5th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), authors of the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, are asking the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to provide information on the progress of the law’s implementation. The law went into effect nearly six months ago and requires broadcast, cable, satellite and other video providers to keep the volume of commercials at a level consistent with regular TV programming. In a letter to Acting FCC Chairwoman Mignon Clyburn today, Eshoo and Whitehouse requested, among other things, the number of consumer complaints of loud TV commercials received by the Commission and the number of waiver requests granted for temporary relief from CALM Act rules. 6.5.13_Eshoo_Whitehouse_CALM_Act_Letter_to_FCC.pdf ###
05.24.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Memorial Day Statement May 24th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement in recognition of Memorial Day, which will be observed on Monday, May 27th: “Many stories emerge from war. Many heroes are made. From the American Revolutionary War to the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, the ultimate sacrifice made by countless members of our nation’s armed forces is the common thread linking every story and every hero. Fallen soldiers have touched every American life, and they’ve kept our great nation a beacon of freedom and liberty to the world. On this and every Memorial Day, we remember generations of Americans who have made the ultimate sacrifice, and we renew our commitment to keep our promises to them, just as they kept their promise to us. “In April, I dedicated a Mountain View post office to honor one such fallen war hero. Lt. Kenneth M. Ballard represented the best of America, a citizen devoted to his country and to keeping us the home of the free and the land of the brave. In honor of his life and achievements, the Mountain View Post Office now bears his name so that future generations in our community will be reminded of his sacrifice to protect our freedoms.” Background: Earlier this year, Congress passed legislation authored by Rep. Eshoo to designate the Mountain View Post Office as the Lt. Kenneth M. Ballard Memorial Post Office in recognition of his life and achievements. Rep. Eshoo’s bill garnered the support of the entire California Congressional delegation, the Mountain View City Council, and was passed unanimously by Congress. A dedication ceremony led by Eshoo in April was attended by over 100 Mountain View residents and community dignitaries. The post office was designated the Lt. Kenneth M. Ballard Memorial Post Office and a plaque bearing his name was unveiled. Lt. Ballard’s family was presented with a copy of Eshoo’s legislation. Kenneth Michael Ballard was born in Rome, New York in 1977, and moved to Mountain View, California in 1981. After graduating from Mountain View High School in 1995, he enlisted in the Army and attended basic training at Fort Knox, Kentucky. He went on to serve in Germany, Bosnia, Macedonia, and Iraq. He won the “Gold to Green” Army ROTC Scholarship and attended Middle Tennessee State University (MTSU). In May 2002, Ken graduated from MTSU and was commissioned as a 2nd Lt. in the Army, becoming a 4th generation Army officer in his family. After graduation, he returned to Germany and was then deployed to Iraq. On May 30, 2004, Lieutenant Ballard was killed in Najaf, Iraq by accidental discharge of the M-240 weapon mounted on his vehicle. As a result of his service in Iraq, he was awarded the Purple Heart and three Bronze Star Medals, two with Valor Device. Lt. Ballard is the only Mountain View soldier to die in combat in Iraq. ###
05.17.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Others Introduce Bill to End Doping of Racehorses May 17th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Joe Pitts (R-Pa.), Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), and Ed Whitfield (R-Ky.) have introduced H.R. 2012, the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act. The bill provides the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency (USADA) with authority to clean up the sport and enforce anti-doping standards in races with simulcast wagering. “As we approach the third and final race of this year’s Triple Crown, it’s important that we shed light on a scandal that is plaguing horse racing in America—doping,” said Eshoo. “This cruel and dangerous practice with race horses not only causes an average of 24 horses to drop dead every week, but it is still permitted by law in the U.S. The Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act will outlaw doping in horse racing and create a culture of safety for some of the most majestic creatures on earth.” “Today, I’m proud to introduce bipartisan legislation to end the dangerous doping of racehorses,” said Pitts. “Since the announcement of draft legislation a few weeks ago, we’ve gained support in the House of Representatives, with my colleagues from Illinois and California joining us on the bill. With Sen. Tom Udall (D-N.M.) working in the other chamber, I’m confident that we can make the sport safer for horses and jockeys through this sensible, affordable legislation.” “Doping is a serious problem in today’s horseracing industry. That is why I am so pleased to join my colleagues today to introduce the Horseracing Integrity and Safety Act,” said Schakowsky. “This bipartisan bill would put an end to this terrible practice, making sure that recognized veterinary standards are met to protect racehorses and prevent dangerous drugging that can lead to pain, suffering and even death.” USADA is a non-governmental organization that is designated as the official anti-doping agency for the U.S. Olympics and works with sports leagues to strengthen clean competition policies. Under the new legislation, USADA would develop rules for permitted and prohibited substances and create anti-doping education, research, testing and adjudication programs for horseracing. It would also: Put an end to race day medication; Set a harmonized medication policy framework for all races with interstate simulcast wagering; Require stiff penalties for cheating, including “one and done” and “three strikes, you’re out” lifetime bans for the worst cases; and Ensure racehorse drug administrations comply with veterinary ethics. Last year, committees in both the House and Senate held hearings where jockeys, veterinarians and owners testified that abuse of legal and illegal substances are contributing to increased breakdowns of racehorses and deadly accidents. ###
05.01.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Nomination of Tom Wheeler to be FCC Chairman May 1st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after President Obama nominated Tom Wheeler to be Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC): “Tom Wheeler is a smart choice for Chairman of the FCC. His more than three decades of industry experience and expert policy know-how will be invaluable as we work to advance a 21st century telecommunications landscape guided by the core principles of competition, consumer protection and diversity. I look forward to working with him.” ###
05.01.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Commemorates Asian Pacific American Heritage Month May 1st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today marks the beginning of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. Since its establishment in 1992, this month has been a time for all Americans to pay tribute to the contributions of generations of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. To commemorate the month, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Associate Member of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, is cosponsoring H. Res. 189, a resolution recognizing Asian Pacific American Heritage Month in May as an important time to celebrate the significant contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to the nation’s history. “Asian Pacific American Heritage Month is an important celebration in the life of our nation,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Economically, culturally, academically and politically, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are a significant part of our communities and add to the rich tapestry that is our great nation. I’m privileged to represent California’s 18th Congressional District, now home to one of the fastest growing Asian Pacific American populations in the country.” Background May is officially designated as Asian Pacific American Heritage Month by section 102 of title 36, United States Code. The observance originally began as Asian Pacific American Heritage Week, which was established through a joint Congressional resolution in 1978. The month of May was chosen due to two important milestones in Asian Pacific American history: May 7, 1843, when the first Japanese immigrants arrived in the United States, and May 10, 1869, when the first transcontinental railroad was completed with substantial contributions from Chinese immigrant workers. ###
04.23.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo: Boston Bombing Underscores Importance of Next Generation 9-1-1 April 23rd, 2013 New GAO Report Shows States Still in Early Phases of Implementation WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and Co-chair of the Congressional NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus, is emphasizing the important role of Next Generation 9-1-1 after an unprecedented amount of video and photos from smartphone users were used by law enforcement officials to help identity suspects in the Boston Marathon terrorist attack. Eshoo’s comments come with the release of a GAO report examining states’ collection and use of 9-1-1 funds for enhanced emergency services. “The GAO report shows states are making good use of funds to implement enhanced 9-1-1 services that can pinpoint the location of emergency callers,” said Rep. Eshoo, who requested the report. “But it also shows we are still in the early phases of implementing Next Generation 9-1-1—technology that gives 9-1-1 call centers the ability to receive text, photos and video directly from bystanders at the scene of an emergency.” “First responders in Boston did not hesitate and, without question, saved lives,” Eshoo continued. “We owe it to them and to the public to ensure the best possible emergency response technology is being utilized.” The GAO report was required as part of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which was signed into law during the 112th Congress. Part of the Act was a successful effort by Eshoo to authorize $115 million in federal funding to state and local public safety entities for Next Generation 9-1-1 technology. ###
04.23.2013	+ SHARE Matsui, Waxman, Eshoo Introduce Legislation to Expand Lifeline for Universal Broadband Adoption April 23rd, 2013 Bill would “bridge digital divide” while reforming the Lifeline program by including accountability measures WASHINGTON, D.C.–Today, Congresswoman Doris Matsui (CA-06), Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, along with Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member, Henry Waxman (CA-33) and the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18), introduced legislation to reform and modernize the Universal Service Fund (USF) Lifeline Assistance Program. The Broadband Adoption Act of 2013 would help bridge the digital divide by making in-home broadband services more affordable across the country. The bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Diana DeGette (CO-01), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), G.K. Butterfield (NC-01), and Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03). “In today’s digital economy, if you don’t have access to the Internet you are simply at a competitive disadvantage. For example, more than 80 percent of available jobs now require online applications,” said Congresswoman Matsui. “The Internet is increasingly the economic engine for growth and innovation. The Lifeline program provides a tangible service to lower-income Americans and it is imperative that the Lifeline program be reformed and modernized to account for broadband services. We must ensure lower-income Americans have a greater opportunity to participate in the digital economy, whether it be for workforce training, education, finding a job or creating the next big idea.” The FCC has estimated that nearly 100 million Americans still have not adopted broadband Internet services at home. Several prominent studies by Pew and the FCC have strongly suggested that broadband adoption rates in urban and rural communities are largely associated with incomes levels and the high cost of broadband services. While the broadband penetration rate is over 90 percent nationwide among households making over $50,000 a year, that figure drops to 68 percent for homes bringing in $30,000-$50,000 a year, and to less than half in households making under $30,000. The bill also requires the FCC to initiate a series of reforms to the current Lifeline program by including accountability measures, such as requiring the FCC to establish a national eligibility database, to prevent non-duplication and abuse of the program. These stringent measures will ensure only those who qualify can participate in the broadband adoption program, and limit the benefit to only one Lifeline support amount per household. Participating households will choose whether they want to use their Lifeline support for broadband services, mobile, or traditional landline services. Eligible households must meet federal low-income guidelines or qualify for one of a handful of social service programs, including but not limited to: SNAP, Head Start, WIC, National School Lunch Program, Tribal TANF, Social Security’s Supplemental Security Income (SSI) or Medicaid. “Like other programs in the Universal Service Fund (USF), the FCC has initiated a series of positive reforms aimed at halting the growth of USF programs, including the High Cost Fund and the Lifeline program. While these are good first steps, more must be done to reform the High Cost Fund and the Lifeline programs. The legislation we are introducing today includes stringent accountability measures to ensure eligible households receive only one Lifeline support amount by establishing a national eligibility database to prevent any duplication,” added Matsui. Nationwide, the number of Lifeline participants over the last eight months has decreased by over five million, from 18.2 million in August to 13.2 million in April, in large part due to current FCC reforms of the Lifeline program. In California, over 1.4 million participate, and of those, nearly 30,000 households participate in Congresswoman Matsui’s district in Sacramento. Of those 30,000 Sacramento households, nearly 17,000 are Seniors who are enrolled in Medicaid. Key Provisions of the Broadband Adoption Act of 2013 The bill directs the FCC to establish a broadband Lifeline Assistance program that provides low-income Americans living in rural and urban areas with assistance in subscribing to affordable broadband service. The proposal would require the FCC, in calculating the amount of support, to routinely study the prevailing market price for service and the prevailing speed adopted by consumers of broadband service. The bill is technology neutral to promote competition from broadband service providers under the program. The bill allows eligible consumers to choose how they would like their Lifeline support- whether for broadband, mobile, basic telephone services or a bundle of these services. The bill clarifies that eligible households will qualify for only one lifeline support amount for one of those functions, not for multiple purposes. The bill requires the FCC to establish a national database to determine consumer eligibility for Lifeline and to prevent duplication. The bill encourages the FCC to consider providing a preference to participating broadband service providers that include components involving digital literacy programs as part of their offerings. Eligible households must meet federal low-income guidelines or qualify for one of a handful of social service programs including, but not limited to: SNAP, Head Start, WIC, National School Lunch Program, Tribal TANF or Medicaid. ###
04.20.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 18th District Winner of Congressional Art Competition April 20th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—At a reception today in the Palo Alto City Council Chambers, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) announced that Elaine Lu from Gunn High School with “Two Children” is California’s 18th Congressional District 1st place winner of the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. “Two Children” will be on display in the halls of Congress for the next year. Elaine is also the recipient of two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with winning artists from other congressional districts across the country at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. “Bravo to Elaine Lu on winning the Congressional Art Competition in California’s 18th District!” Rep. Eshoo said. “Her artwork showcases great artistic talent and potential. Elaine’s work will be honored in Congress and represent our district in Congress.” Rep. Eshoo also announced that Tommy Meaney of Sacred Heart Prep with “Looking Forward” and Max Austin of Linden Tree Academy with “The Way I See” won 2nd and 3rd place respectively. The following participants received honorable mentions: Victoria Kyone, Palo Alto High, “Hear Our Prayer” Jocelyn Moreno, Leigh High, “Untold Story” Kaylen Chung, Woodside Priory, “City Reflection” Leah Thomas, Woodside Priory, “The Judges’ Eyes” Saloni Kalkat, Castilleja, “Nostalgia” Cindy Zhu, Gunn High School, “The Dreams of Tomorrow” About the Competition A record 72 pieces of art were submitted by 44 artists from 16 high schools throughout the 18th Congressional District to Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto Office this year. Exceptions were made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. The winning artist was chosen by a panel of four distinguished judges: patron of the arts Jill Freidenrich, local photographer and poet Leonore Horowitz, local gallery owner Mahmut Keskekci, and Director of the Palo Alto Art Center Karen Kienzle. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website. ###
04.20.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Thompson Hold Community Meeting to Discuss Gun Violence Prevention Legislation April 20th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—Following the Senate’s failed attempt earlier this week to pass legislation to expand background checks on firearm sales, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-18) and Mike Thompson (CA-5), Chairman of the House Task Force on Gun Violence Prevention, aren’t backing down from passing legislation to reduce gun violence. At a community meeting in the Palo Alto City Council Chambers, Eshoo and Thompson heard comments, questions and concerns from over 200 attendees. “We may not all agree on specific remedies to reduce gun violence, but for starters, 90 percent of Americans think background checks to keep guns away from criminals and the mentally ill is a good idea.” Rep. Eshoo said. “Commonsense proposals that reduce gun violence and protect the Second Amendment rights of lawful gun owners have been put on the table. It’s now up to Congress to put first the public safety interests of our communities.” “The debate on background checks isn’t over,” said Thompson. “I have introduced bipartisan legislation in the House with Representative Peter King (R-NY). We will push for a vote on this bill because the only thing more disappointing than the Senate voting against nearly 90 percent of Americans would be for the House to not vote on background checks at all. Our bill is pro-gun owner, pro-second Amendment, and anti-crime.” In February, the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force released a comprehensive set of policy principles designed to reduce gun violence and respect the Second Amendment right so of law abiding Americans. That report can be found here. There have been over 3,000 gun deaths in the four months since the Newtown tragedy. Over 100,000 Americans are shot every year, with 32,000 dying of their wounds. More than 9 in 10 Americans support the idea of universal background checks for purchasing firearms, according to a recent Quinnipiac University poll. Eshoo and Thompson support numerous bills to reduce gun violence, including H.R. 1565, the King-Thompson/Manchin-Toomey bipartisan compromise to expand the current background check system to cover commercial sales at gun shows, over the Internet and in classified ads. They also support bills that would ban assault weapons and assault magazines, as well as stiffen penalties for gun trafficking and straw purchasing. ###
04.13.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, U.S.Postal Service Dedicate Mountain View Post Office in Honor of Fallen War Hero April 13th, 2013 PALO ALTO, Calif.—At a ceremony today that drew over a hundred people, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), joined by U.S. Postal Service San Francisco District Manager Rosemarie Fernandez, former Mountain View Mayor and Councilmember Laura Macías, and family and friends of the late Army Lieutenant Kenneth M. Ballard, dedicated the Mountain View Post Office in his honor. The post office was designated the Lt. Kenneth M. Ballard Memorial Post Office and a plaque bearing his name was unveiled. Lt. Ballard’s family was presented with a copy of Eshoo’s legislation, H.R. 6260, which was passed unanimously by Congress authorizing the post office renaming, as well as the official presidential signing pen on behalf of President Obama. “Lieutenant Ballard’s story is one of great bravery, dedication and courage,” Rep. Eshoo said. “He represented what makes America the best…what makes us the home of the free and the land of the brave. In honor of his life and achievements, the Mountain View Post Office will bear Lieutenant Ballard’s name, serving as a reminder to future generations in our community of his sacrifice to protect our freedoms.” “I am thrilled to see Ken honored with the renaming of this post office,” said Karen Meredith, mother of Lt. Ballard. “I am grateful for everyone involved in the process who worked so hard to make this dream come true for me. Ken will not be forgotten and will forever be a part of Mountain View history.” “Dedicating the Mountain View Post Office today, for me, and on behalf of the U.S. Postal Service is an honor and a privilege,” Fernandez said. “From this day forward, Kenneth’s memory will be kept alive by all those who visit the Mountain View Post Office. It is our way of saying thank you Kenneth, for your service and for your sacrifice.” “The City of Mountain View is proud to have our main post office named in honor of Lieutenant Ken Ballard.” said Macías, who sponsored the city’s resolution in support of the naming last year. “Let this be a true recognition of the enormous appreciation that our residents have for Lt. Ballard’s selfless service and sacrifice. The City of Mountain View thanks all its residents who serve their country today, in the past and in the future.” Background: Earlier this year, Congress passed legislation authored by Rep. Eshoo to designate the Mountain View Post Office as the Lt. Kenneth M. Ballard Memorial Post Office in recognition of his life and achievements. Rep. Eshoo’s bill garnered the support of the entire California Congressional delegation, the Mountain View City Council, and was passed unanimously by Congress. Kenneth Michael Ballard was born in Rome, New York in 1977, and moved to Mountain View, California in 1981. After graduating from Mountain View High School in 1995, he enlisted in the Army and attended basic training at Fort Knox, Kentucky. He went on to serve in Germany, Bosnia, Macedonia, and Iraq. He won the “Gold to Green” Army ROTC Scholarship and attended Middle Tennessee State University (MTSU). In May 2002, Ken graduated from MTSU and was commissioned as a 2nd Lt. in the Army, becoming a 4th generation Army officer in his family. After graduation, he returned to Germany and was then deployed to Iraq. On May 30, 2004, Lieutenant Ballard was killed in Najaf, Iraq by accidental discharge of the M-240 weapon mounted on his vehicle. As a result of his service in Iraq, he was awarded the Purple Heart and three Bronze Star Medals, two with Valor Device. Lt. Ballard is the only Mountain View soldier to die in combat in Iraq. ###
03.22.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Chairman Genachowski March 22nd, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement today regarding Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski’s announcement that he will be leaving the Commission: “Because of Chairman Genachowski’s leadership, new ground was broken at the FCC. America is leading the world in scale deployment of next generation mobile networks with tens of billions of dollars in private investment. Innovators will have access to more unlicensed spectrum than ever before, supporting the promise and potential of the wireless technology of tomorrow. The Internet remains a free and open platform for inventiveness and the sharing of ideas. Chairman Genachowski implemented the kind of long-term growth initiatives America’s telecommunications sector needs to compete in the digital age. It was a privilege working with him to advance our common goals.” ###
03.15.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Appointed to Official Bipartisan Congressional Delegation for Investiture of Pope Francis March 15th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) has been appointed to the official bipartisan U.S. House of Representatives delegation for the investiture of newly-elected Pope Francis in Rome on March 19, 2013. “It is a high honor to be appointed to the House Delegation to attend the investiture of Pope Francis, and humbling to be a witness to history,” Rep. Eshoo said. The House delegation, appointed by Speaker Boehner, will be led by Rep. Chris Smith (R-N.J.) and includes Reps. Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Sean Duffy (R-Wis.), Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Jim Langevin (D-R.I.), Daniel Lipinski (D-Ill.), and Loretta Sanchez (D-Calif.). The delegation will also include the Reverend Patrick Conroy, S.J., Chaplain of the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
03.14.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Launches 2013 Congressional Art Competition in California’s 18th District March 14th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today this year’s district-wide Congressional Art Competition to discover and celebrate talented high school artists and their work. “For 30 years, the Congressional Art Competition has recognized and encouraged artistic talent among our youth,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’m proud to keep this tradition flourishing by launching this year’s competition in California’s 18th Congressional District.” About the Competition All high school students from throughout the 18th Congressional District are invited to participate and exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students can participate by submitting their works of art to Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto office at 698 Emerson Street by 5 p.m. PST on Friday, April 12th. A local reception will be held to announce the winner and honor all participants. The winning artist whose work is chosen by a panel of distinguished local artists has the distinction of having his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of the nation’s Capitol for one year. He or she will also be awarded two round-trip airline tickets to Washington, D.C., courtesy of Southwest Airlines, to attend a reception with other talented young artists at the unveiling of their works in the Capitol. Detailed guidelines for the competition can be found here on Rep. Eshoo’s website. ###
03.06.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Cell Phone Unlocking Ban March 6th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement: “The ban on unlocking cell phones puts consumers in the back seat when it comes to choosing the mobile device and service that best suits them. Competition and consumer choice are equally fundamental to a vibrant mobile marketplace, which is why I intend to introduce legislation eliminating the ban on unlocking cell phones and other mobile devices.” ###
03.04.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo’s Pandemic All Hazards Preparedness Act to Be Signed into Law March 4th, 2013 Includes New Provisions to Address Pediatric Needs WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after her legislation, the Pandemic All Hazards Preparedness Reauthorization (PAHPA), passed the House and will now be signed into law by the president. The bill, which originally passed the House in January by a 395 to 29 vote, reflects technical changes made by the Senate-approved version. PAHPA reauthorizes the critical programs that protect our national security and public health from chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear attack. “Developing and stockpiling appropriate countermeasures is essential for public safety, and these programs encourage our homegrown companies to invest in areas of critical need,” said Rep. Eshoo, an original cosponsor of the legislation. “While the hope is that we never need to use these countermeasures to combat an attack, I’m proud that we’ve strengthened these programs for everyone in our country, especially children.” Background: The reauthorization passed by the House today includes new provisions that highlight the important needs of children. Although children represent nearly 25 percent of the U.S. population, the nation is unprepared to address their needs fully in the case of a disaster or public health emergency. According to the National Commission on Children and Disaster 2010 Report, the Strategic National Stockpile (SNS), intended to provide the public with medicine and medical supplies in the event of a public health emergency, “is woefully under-stocked with medical countermeasures for children.” Specifically, the new provisions: Improve hospital preparedness to deal with a spike in pediatric patients. The bill amends the Hospital Preparedness Program, which provides grants to enhance hospital emergency preparedness, to state that grant applicants should have the capacity to handle a sudden and steep increase in the number of pediatric patients being treated in their emergency rooms in the event of an emergency. Identify gaps in the Strategic National Stockpile and develop a plan to address them. The bill instructs the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness Response (ASPR) to identify pediatric gaps in the SNS, intended to provide the public with medicine and medical supplies in the event of an emergency, and to develop a plan to address those gaps. The ASPR will provide an annual progress report to Congress. Expand the availability of pediatric countermeasures. Accelerate the development of medical countermeasures, including for pediatric populations, by strengthening the Federal Drug Administration’s role in reviewing products for national security priorities. ###
03.01.2013	+ SHARE Congresswoman Eshoo Announces Plan for Hangar One and Moffett Federal Airfield March 1st, 2013 PALO ALTO, CA—Following a meeting with Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), GSA, NASA, and the White House at the Capitol on Tuesday, February 26, the General Services Administration will issue a Notice of Intent regarding Hangar One and Moffett Federal Airfield, which reflects the following: 1. Moffett Federal Airfield will NOT be excessed. It will remain a restricted Federal Airfield and NASA will remain its custodian. 2. The Notice of Intent outlines a competitive bid process and the Request for Proposal (RFP) will be released this spring seeking a qualified lessee to provide for the rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of historic Hangar One. “This notice of intent embodies my consistent goals over several years to save Hangar One and to keep Moffett Federal Airfield as a local and Bay Area public safety and national security asset, and home to the 129th Rescue Wing,” Rep. Eshoo said. She added, “GSA and NASA will work closely with the local community to explain the RFP process and produce the desired outcomes. I will continue to work with the agencies and my communities to see this critical process through.” ###
02.28.2013	+ SHARE Pelosi, Waxman, Eshoo Call on FCC to Increase Campaign Ad Disclosure February 28th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, and Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo today released a new report from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) finding that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has an obligation, under current law, to require the sponsors of all advertisements to be identified, even for political ads. Originally requested by Leader Pelosi and Congressman Waxman, the GAO report clarifies the power of the FCC to prevent advertisers from misleading consumers and voters, and require disclosure of ad sponsors, so the public knows who is purchasing time on the airwaves and seeking to sway their votes. The report also makes clear that the FCC has already recognized its obligation to protect consumers from straw buyers and instead require the true sponsor to be disclosed. “It’s been said that sunlight is the best disinfectant – and this report makes clear that the FCC has the power, the authority, and the responsibility to shine a bright light on the organizations and campaigns behind our political advertisements,” Leader Pelosi said. “The FCC must simply update its rules to reflect the law, ensuring disclosure in our elections, transparency in our campaigns, and fairness for all voters.” “The American people deserve to know when and by whom they are being persuaded – and it is the FCC’s job to ensure that they do,” Congressman Waxman said. “I urge the FCC to take full advantage of the authority already granted by Congress to provide maximum transparency for consumers and voters.” “The 2012 election cycle made it abundantly clear that our electoral system and campaign finance laws are badly in need of reform,” Congresswoman Eshoo added. “Where power once originated from the general electorate, that balance has shifted in favor of the enormously wealthy, who can now hide their identity and their political expenditures. It’s time for the FCC to play a crucial role in bringing greater transparency to America’s electoral system by requiring sponsors of political ads to disclose their true identity, not just their ambiguously-named Super PAC. I welcome the GAO’s findings supporting this assertion.” ###
02.28.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo: Bipartisan Senate Version of VAWA Bill Passes House, A Victory for All February 28th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) is claiming victory for all victims of domestic violence today after the House passed the bipartisan, Senate-approved reauthorization of S.47, the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The defective House Majority bill failed today on a vote of 166 to 257, clearing the way for the Senate bill to be taken up. S.47 passed the Senate on February 12, 2013 with a bipartisan vote of 78 to 22. The bill now heads to the President to be signed into law. “For 20 years, the Violence Against Women Act has ensured that no woman has to suffer in silence in the face of domestic abuse,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’m committed to keeping that promise, which is why I worked hard to enact the bipartisan Senate bill to secure a victory for all women, without exception. The reauthorized VAWA will build on the progress made over the law’s successful twenty-year history, continuing to address and eradicate domestic violence from our homes, campuses, tribal lands and communities.” The Senate reauthorization enhances provisions to make college campuses safer, takes important steps to fight international human trafficking, and makes strides to clear the national backlog of DNA rape kit evidence. It also includes protections for LGBT, immigrant and Tribal victims of domestic violence. Background on VAWA Originally passed 19 years ago, VAWA focused the resources, time, and energy of federal, state, and local law enforcement on the task of preventing and stopping domestic abuse, while providing victims of violence with critical services and assistance. Since then, VAWA has improved the criminal justice system’s ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. Every state has enacted laws to make stalking a crime and strengthened criminal rape statutes. And the annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50 percent, with reporting of domestic violence increasing as much as 51 percent. VAWA has successfully encouraged communities and law enforcement agencies to coordinate their responses to violence against women and provide effective, long-term support for victims. Failure to enact this bill would have deprived women, children, and families of vital protection against abuse and law enforcement of essential tools to combat violence. Learn more about Rep. Eshoo’s record of support for VAWA here. ###
02.27.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes Second Attempt to Pass Defective VAWA Legislation February 27th, 2013 Calls on House Majority to Bring Up and Pass Bipartisan, Senate-Passed Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.—For the second time, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) is signaling her opposition to a bill reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) because it excludes some victims of domestic violence from the protections provided by the law. She voted against a similar attempt to pass the flawed reauthorization in May 2012. Using the bipartisan Senate bill number S.47, House Republicans plan to consider on the floor this week their substitute of that legislation. The substitute bill strips out the Senate bill’s protections for members of the LGBT community and drastically reduces protections for Native Americans and immigrants. It also eliminates key provisions in the Senate bill that make college campuses safer. “This represents an opportunity squandered to pass the Senate’s bipartisan VAWA reauthorization in the House,” Rep. Eshoo said. “No woman should ever be forced to feel unsafe or insecure in her own home, and no woman should have to suffer in silence in the face of domestic abuse. Tribal, immigrant and LGBT survivors of violence are no exception to this. By passing a reauthorization of VAWA that protects all victims of domestic violence, we can build on the progress made over the 20-year history of the law and continue to eradicate domestic violence from our homes and communities.” Rep. Eshoo is a cosponsor of H.R.11, a comprehensive reauthorization of VAWA that is the companion to S.47, which passed the Senate by a bipartisan vote of 78 to 22 on February 12, 2013. H.R.11 currently has 201 Democratic cosponsors. The substitute to S. 47 in the House significantly weakens the Senate-passed version. Among the many changes, it: Undermines Tribal authority to adjudicate domestic violence cases, despite the fact that Native American women are disproportionately likely to be victims; Removes colleges and universities’ obligation to keep students safe and informed about sexual assault policies; Removes the SAFER Act, legislation direly needed to clear state and local rape kit backlogs and process DNA evidence in a timely manner; Rolls back protections for immigrant victims of domestic violence; Removes protection for LGBT victims of domestic violence; and Removes the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act, which provides essential victim protections as well as resources for victim service providers and law enforcement. More information about the progress VAWA has made over its 20-year history can be found here. ###
02.07.2013	+ SHARE What They’re Saying: Bill to Modify ‘Sunshine’ Rule Will Allow for More Efficient, Responsive FCC February 7th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Bipartisan legislation to promote collaboration and streamline decision-making at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was reintroduced in Congress this week. Already, numerous industry leaders and both current and former FCC Commissioners have weighed in with support. Mignon Clyburn, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission: “I applaud the introduction of this legislation, which will help FCC Commissioners fulfill their responsibilities on the Federal-State Joint Board on Universal Service and Separations as well as the Federal-State Joint Conference on Advanced Services. If enacted, the proposed improvements to our procedures would allow us to collaborate more openly and directly with state members, which would be a welcome and very productive improvement to our existing guidelines.” Ajit Pai, Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission: “We must be as nimble as the communications industry we oversee. The FCC Collaboration Act would help us do that by allowing greater interaction among the Commissioners. We could respond better and more quickly to everyone with business before the FCC, from broadcasters in Illinois to technology companies in California. The Act also would help us meet deadlines set by Congress and the shot clocks we set for ourselves. Finally, the FCC Collaboration Act would facilitate a more fruitful dialogue about the potential costs and benefits of Commission action.” Michael Copps, Former Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission: “This legislation would be a real boon to the FCC. The inability of Commissioners to get together and talk as a group makes zero sense. It stifles collaboration, delays decision-making, discourages collegiality, and shortchanges consumers and the public interest. Representatives Eshoo, Shimkus and Doyle, and Senators Klobuchar and Heller have introduced the best FCC reform I can think of.” Kathleen Abernathy, Former Commissioner, Federal Communications Commission: “I support revisions to the Sunshine Act as proposed by Reps. Eshoo, Shimkus and Doyle and Senators Klobuchar and Heller. As FCC Commissioner, I found it unfortunate and counterproductive that the decision-makers at the Federal Communications Commission were prohibited by the Sunshine Act from communicating collectively outside of a public forum. The prohibition actually discourages creative problem solving, inhibits a collaborative spirit, and creates hurdles to a timely and effective decision-making process. In some cases, a face-to-face discussion is not only the best way but the only way for the Chairman and Commissioners to effectively and constructively deliberate over complex issues. I believe that the ability to hold such discussions will benefit both consumers and industry stakeholders by allowing fair and frank internal discussions of complex issues.” Philip Jones, President, National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners (NARUC), and John Burke, Chair, NARUC Committee on Telecommunications: “The National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners appreciates the leadership of Representatives Eshoo, Shimkus, and Doyle in the House and Senators Klobuchar and Heller in the Senate for introducing legislation to update the Federal Communications Commission’s so-called ‘sunshine’ rules. The bill allows more than two FCC Commissioners to meet outside of an open meeting and covers deliberations of the federal-State joint boards and conferences which serve as an important conduit for the agency to gather State input. NARUC has endorsed this significant and much needed improvement to the current process for years and hope it will become law as soon as possible.” Grant Seiffert, President, Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA): “TIA and our member companies have issues before the Commission daily and know too well the importance of efforts to improve the efficiency of the agency. To this end, your legislation addresses one of the central obstacles that Commissioners face as they deliberate and review complex telecommunications issues. In today’s ever evolving telecommunications marketplace it is essential that the agency ‘charged with regulating interstate and international communications by radio, television, wire, satellite and cable’ is able to function swiftly and thoughtfully on these issues so critical to our companies’ and nation’s competitiveness.” Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), John Shimkus (R-Ill.) and Mike Doyle (D-Penn.), as well as Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Dean Heller (R-Nev.) are original cosponsors of the FCC Collaboration Act, which seeks to modify the Commission’s “Sunshine” Rule so that three or more Commissioners can hold non-public collaborative discussions, as long as no agency action is taken. Currently, the rule prohibits more than two FCC Commissioners from talking to each other outside of an official public meeting. Text of the legislation can be found here. ###
02.06.2013	+ SHARE Bipartisan Legislation to Modify FCC ‘Sunshine’ Rule Reintroduced in Congress February 6th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Bipartisan legislation to promote collaboration and streamline decision-making at the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was reintroduced in Congress today. The FCC Collaboration Act was reintroduced in the House by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), John Shimkus (R-Ill.) and Mike Doyle (D-Penn.), and will be introduced in the Senate tomorrow by Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Dean Heller (R-Nev.). The legislation seeks to modify the Commission’s “Sunshine” Rule so that three or more Commissioners can hold non-public collaborative discussions, as long as no agency action is taken. Currently, the rule prohibits more than two FCC Commissioners from talking to each other outside of an official public meeting. “If the FCC is expected to tackle some of the nation’s most pressing communications issues, Commissioners must have the ability to communicate freely,” said Rep. Eshoo, Ranking Member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “Simple collaboration, discussion of issues, and shared expertise outside an official setting are essential in order for the Commission to keep up with the rapidly changing telecommunications landscape.” “I have always been a supporter of ending this ridiculous FCC rule. Allowing Commissioners to talk to one another will only lead to better and more efficient work being done at the FCC, not the other way around,” said Rep. Shimkus. “We’ve got to give our FCC Commissioners and Joint Board Members a chance to get together in private in a bipartisan fashion to discuss important matters,” said Rep. Doyle. “Public settings such as the FCC Open Meetings provide an important way for the public to learn about the FCC’s actions, but they don’t let Commissioners deliberate directly at length the tough communications issues facing the Commission.” “Improving our country’s communications infrastructure is critical to our economy and to our public safety,” said Senator Klobuchar. “This bill will go a long way to make the FCC more efficient and effective so they can continue to work to advance the technological innovations that keep the U.S. competitive.” “This common-sense legislation will encourage discussion and cooperation among FCC Commissioners, and allow for the agency to be more responsive to a rapidly changing marketplace. While the Sunshine Act is well-intended, a simple modification is needed to encourage progress as the agency faces decisions across a wide array of industries. I look forward to working with Senator Klobuchar to advance this bipartisan legislation in the United States Senate, and with Representatives Eshoo and Shimkus to enact this bill into law,” said Senator Heller. The “Sunshine” Rule especially impedes the work of the FCC at Federal-State Joint Board meetings because only two Commissioners are allowed to participate at any one time. FCC Commissioners ultimately rotate through the meetings, resulting in sporadic engagement and limited progress. The text of the legislation can be found here. ###
02.06.2013	+ SHARE Bipartisan Team Introduces Data Center Energy Efficiency Bill February 6th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) introduced today the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act, legislation to save the federal government energy and money by requiring the use of energy efficient and energy reduction technologies, particularly in federal data centers. “Every two days, the world generates more data than in all of human history prior to 2003. That data is stored and processed in vast, highly inefficient data centers,” said Rep. Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “With federal data centers accounting for 10 percent of all U.S. data center energy use, government should lead by example in improving energy efficiency. The rising importance of data centers in our everyday lives goes unnoticed, but the importance of energy efficiency should not.” “I am committed to the fight against government waste, that’s why I came to Washington,” said Rep. Rogers. “The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act is a perfect example of legislation that will promote energy efficiency in the federal government while also saving taxpayers money. I look forward to working with Congresswoman Eshoo and the Energy & Commerce Committee in the 113th Congress to pass this common sense legislation.” “For the federal government, as it does for society, technology has the power to drive up innovation and productivity and drive down energy consumption. The end result: better services and lower costs for the taxpayer. The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act would put in place greater incentives for smart technologies to reduce federal energy consumption and emissions, while achieving substantial cost savings, improved productivity, and better value for the American people,” explained Dean Garfield, president & CEO of the Information Technology Industry Council (ITI). “We appreciate the leadership that Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Rogers provide in this arena, and applaud their bipartisan legislation.” Background: Last fall, the New York Times reported that “data centers can waste 90 percent or more of the electricity they pull off the [power] grid,” running their facilities at maximum capacity around the clock out of fear of a surge in demand that could crash the system. These data centers now consume an estimated 2 percent of all electricity in the U.S. each year. Federal data centers make up 10 percent of all U.S. data center energy use, which translates to an estimated $600 million in energy costs in 2010 alone. The National Resources Defense Council estimates that implementation of new technologies and best practices could reduce the government’s data center energy bill by 50 percent or more, saving the taxpayers $300 million annually. In light of growing data center energy use and at no cost to taxpayers, the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act would: Require federal agencies to coordinate with OMB in developing plans to move toward more energy efficient technologies, along with annual evaluation of federal data centers for energy efficiency. Require an update to a 2007 Report to Congress that has formed the baseline for data center energy efficiency since its release, but is very much in need of an update. Create an Open Data Initiative for the purpose of making federal data center energy usage data available in a way that empowers further data center innovation, while protecting national security interests. A one page summary of the bill can be found here. ###
02.06.2013	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Lance and Senators Alexander, Bennet Introduce Bipartisan Bill to Reduce Premature Births February 6th, 2013 PREEMIE Reauthorization Act will expand research, education and intervention for premature births WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Leonard Lance (R-N.J.) and Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.) and Michael Bennet (D-Colo.) today introduced legislation to reduce infant deaths and disabilities by expanding research, education, and intervention activities related to preterm birth. Rep. Eshoo said: “Every day, one in nine infants in the United States is born prematurely, costing our economy at least $26 billion per year in lifesaving care. Reauthorizing the PREEMIE Act will continue to fuel progress in reducing our nation’s premature birth rate by supporting federal research and promoting known interventions and community initiatives. For the sake of the more than 500,000 babies who are born prematurely each year, we must reauthorize the PREEMIE Act to ensure that each and every one of them has a healthy start in life.” Rep. Lance said: “Reauthorizing the PREEMIE Act will help address the critical issue of preventing premature birth, which is the leading cause of newborn death in the United States today. I am pleased to work with my colleagues on this important prematurity prevention legislation.” Sen. Alexander said: “This important bill will allow the scientists and doctors researching the causes of premature birth and its prevention to continue their work. We have seen great progress since we first introduced this bill, but with an average of 236 premature babies a week born in Tennessee, there is more to be done. I applaud the March of Dimes for its persistent work in reducing premature births.” Sen. Bennet said: “The United States can and should lead in research to develop new treatments for preterm birth. In Colorado, one in every 10 babies is born too soon every year. This bipartisan bill will help us better understand the causes of preterm births and how we can reduce the number them. I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass this bill quickly.” In addition to being the leading cause of newborn death, premature birth can cause a lifetime of health challenges and intellectual disabilities for those children who do survive. According to the Institute of Medicine (IOM), the annual societal costs associated with preterm birth were $26.2 billion in 2005 or $51,600 per infant born preterm. Nearly two-thirds of this $26.2 billion estimate was spent on medical care, a figure that does not include the cost of medical care beyond early childhood or caretaker costs such as lost wages. The PREEMIE bill reauthorizes the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) research and programs on preterm birth, including improving national data tracking on preterm birth, and conducting studies. The bill also adds prenatal care for high-risk pregnancies to the Health Resources and Services Administration telehealth network grant program. The bill requires the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary’s Advisory Committee on Infant Mortality to develop a plan for conducting and supporting research, education and programs on preterm birth within the first year of enactment, and requires the HHS secretary to coordinate existing studies on hospital readmission of preterm infants and to report on recommendations within a year of enactment. “We’ve made significant progress since the original PREEMIE Act in 2006,” said Dr. Jennifer L. Howse, President of the March of Dimes. “Preterm birth rates have now dropped for five consecutive years after rising steadily for three decades. Reauthorizing the PREEMIE Act will help us reach the March of Dimes goal of lowering the preterm birth rate to 9.6 percent by 2020 and reduce the number of infant deaths and childhood disabilities caused by premature birth. We’re deeply grateful to Senators Lamar Alexander and Michael Bennet and Representatives Anna Eshoo and Leonard Lance for their continued commitment to improving the health of our nation’s women and children. We urge Congress to quickly pass this lifesaving legislation.” This legislation is supported by the March of Dimes Foundation, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the Association of Women’s Health, and Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses. ###
02.06.2013	+ SHARE First Reviews Are In: Eshoo-Rogers Energy Efficiency Bill Drives Innovation and Lowers Costs February 6th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) introduced today the Energy Efficient Government Technology Act, legislation to save the federal government energy and money by requiring the use of energy efficient and energy reduction technologies, particularly in federal data centers. The reaction from key stakeholder groups has been positive. Steve Crout, Vice President, Government Affairs, Qualcomm: “Our industry believes strongly that information and communications technologies (ICT) will help the US government do its job better, and at less cost to the U.S. taxpayer, and enactment of the Eshoo/Rogers bill will provide a welcome boost in this regard. Qualcomm and the ICT industry at-large make significant investments in highly efficient data centers that both increase computing capacity and lower energy consumption and associated costs. The federal government can and should seek similar benefits. We applaud Representatives Eshoo and Rogers for leading the way.” Jennifer Schaefer, President, Cascade Associates: “The Federal Performance Contracting Coalition is pleased to support this federal energy efficiency legislation that acknowledges the inherent benefits of energy savings performance contracting to achieve agency energy efficiency and sustainability goals.” Steve Harper, Global Director of Environment and Energy Policy, Intel: “Strong evidence suggests that intelligent use of information and communications technology (ICT) to drive energy efficiencies throughout the non-ICT elements of an organization’s operations can yield very large energy and cost-savings benefits. This is true whether the organization is private or public. The bill introduced by Reps. Eshoo and Rogers recognizes that energy savings needs to go beyond agencies buying Energy Star-qualified equipment to encompass how that more efficient equipment is used to make agency buildings, fleets, logistics systems, and employees more efficient. Passage of this bill will drive deep savings within the Federal sector and illuminate a path for the private sector as well.” Susan Moore, Vice President, Global Public Affairs, AMD: “Accelerating adoption of energy efficient information technology is a quick and effective way to reduce the federal government’s electric bill, saving taxpayer dollars and reducing its carbon footprint in the process. AMD applauds Representatives Anna Eshoo and Mike Rogers for their leadership in making energy efficient information technology strategies and practices a priority for the federal government.” John Tuccillo, Vice President, Global Industry & Government Alliances, Schneider Electric: “The Energy Efficient Government Technology Act represents a good step forward in applying the significant advancements in operational practices and supporting technology to the complex challenges facing the Federal Government as it seeks to accelerate the values of IT-enabled energy productivity. The actions called for in this bill are geared for and in many cases proven to increase productivity and transparency, while reducing total cost of ownership in private industry across all sectors globally.” Kathrin Winkler, Chief Sustainability Officer, EMC: “The federal government and EMC share a common goal of continuing to reduce the environmental footprint of technology while continuing to improve the value of federal services for U.S. taxpayers. This legislation would advance the public-private effort that is already increasing the energy efficiency at data centers and other areas while expanding productivity and accelerating innovation through evolving usage models.” Carl Guardino, President and CEO, Silicon Valley Leadership Group: “The Silicon Valley Leadership Group is pleased to offer support for the Energy Efficiency Government Technology Act. We believe that this legislation will lead to greater energy efficiency in data centers both within the federal government and across the country.” Grant Seiffert, President, Telecommunications Industry Association (TIA): “TIA is a leading trade association for the information and communications technology industry, with over 500 member companies that manufacture or supply the products and services used in global communications. Our companies strongly support efforts to harness the multiplier effect of information and communications technology to reduce energy consumption. The Federal government will realize significant energy efficiency and cost savings through the adoption of the information and communications technologies and best practices enabled by this legislation.” ###
02.05.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Congratulates Palo Alto High School on Winning the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Regional High School Science Bowl February 5th, 2013 Team Earns Spot in National Finals WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) congratulated Palo Alto High School today for winning the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Regional High School Science Bowl on Saturday. Palo Alto High School competed against 20 other teams from across the region in one of the nation’s regional competitions of the 23rd Annual U.S. Department of Energy National Science Bowl, and is now eligible to compete in the National Finals in Washington, D.C. at the end of April. The National Science Bowl brings together thousands of middle and high school students from across the country to compete in a range of science disciplines, including biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, astronomy and math. “Bravo to Palo Alto High School’s National Science Bowl Team!” Rep. Eshoo said. “At a time when America faces a critical shortage of workforce skills in science, technology, engineering and math, the curiosity and competitiveness of these Palo Alto High School students breathes new hope into our future global competitiveness.” Background The Department of Energy (DOE) created the National Science Bowl in 1991 to encourage students to excel in mathematics and science and to pursue careers in these fields. More than 200,000 students have participated in the National Science Bowl throughout its 22 year history, and it is the nation’s largest science competition. Over the next several months, more than 9,000 high school students and 5,000 middle school students will compete in 70 high school and 48 middle school regional Science Bowl tournaments. Students, in teams of four or five, compete in a fast-paced Jeopardy-style format where they solve technical problems and answer questions in all branches of science and math. Most teams are coached by teachers from the students’ schools and spend several months preparing for the regional competitions. Many states have one regional or statewide Science Bowl competition, while larger states, such as California, hold several regional competitions across their states. Students from Palo Alto High School will be awarded an all-expense paid trip to the National Finals in Washington, D.C., which are scheduled for April 25-29, 2013. The regional tournaments, which host 15-50 teams, are sponsored by federal agencies, national laboratories, institutions of education, and non-profit organizations. DOE’s Office of Science manages the competition. More information about these events is available on the National Science Bowl website: http://www.science.energy.gov/nsb/. ###
02.01.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Black History Month February 1st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today in recognition of Black History Month. Black History Month 2013 commemorates two landmarks in American history: the 150th anniversary of the Emancipation Proclamation, and the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington. The theme of Black History Month this year is “At the Crossroads of Freedom and Equality: The Emancipation Proclamation and the March on Washington.” “Every February, our nation honors the contributions, achievements, history and significance of the African-American community,” Rep. Eshoo said. “As we mark the anniversaries of two landmark events in the struggle to achieve freedom, justice and secure economic opportunity for African Americans, our country once again recommits itself to widening the circle of opportunity for all Americans.” ###
01.24.2013	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo: It’s Time to Reauthorize and Strengthen the Violence Against Women Act January 24th, 2013 113th Congress Needs to Act Quickly to Finally Enact a Strong VAWA Reauthorization WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today declared her firm and unequivocal support to reauthorize and strengthen the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The reauthorization of VAWA was reintroduced this week in the new Congress with the support of more than 150 co-sponsors, including every Democratic woman in the House. The proposal extends and strengthens VAWA’s existing provisions, and expands protections to LGBT Americans, immigrants, and Native Americans. The legislation also has bipartisan support in the Senate. “No woman should ever be forced to feel unsafe or insecure in her own home and no woman should have to suffer in silence in the face of domestic abuse,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has been an essential tool in protecting victims of domestic and sexual violence. But, as we work to strengthen this vital law, some believe that ‘the real VAWA’ was meant to protect only ‘certain’ victims—that Tribal, immigrant and LGBT survivors of violence should be excluded. Regardless of race, religion, tribe or orientation, violence is violence, and by passing this legislation, we will address a serious issue comprehensively.” Background Originally passed 19 years ago, VAWA focused the resources, time, and energy of federal, state, and local law enforcement on the task of preventing and stopping domestic abuse, while providing victims of violence with critical services and assistance. Since then, VAWA has improved the criminal justice system’s ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. Every state has enacted laws to make stalking a crime and strengthened criminal rape statutes. And the annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50 percent, with reporting of domestic violence increasing as much as 51 percent. VAWA has successfully encouraged communities and law enforcement agencies to coordinate their responses to violence against women and provide effective, long-term support for victims. Failure to enact this bill again would deprive women, children, and families of vital protection against abuse and law enforcement of essential tools to combat violence. Learn more about Rep. Eshoo’s record of support for VAWA here. ###
01.24.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, DeLauro, Mikulski Introduce Paycheck Fairness Act to End Wage Discrimination January 24th, 2013 Legislation Supports Equal Pay for Equal Work; Strengthens Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act Signed into Law Four Years Ago to Keep Courthouse Doors Open President Obama Called for Equal Pay for Equal Work in Second Inaugural Address Women Earn Just 77 Cents for Every Dollar a Man Earns; Costs Women, Men & Families $400,000 to $2 Million Over a Woman’s Career WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) and Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-Md.) reintroduced the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation to help close the wage gap between women and men working the same jobs, costing women and their families anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million over a lifetime of lost wages. Today, women make just 77 cents for every dollar made by a man for equal work. The Senate legislation currently has 22 cosponsors while the House bill has 130. President Obama’s first bill, signed into law on January 29, 2009, was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which overturned the 180-day statute of limitations for women to contest pay discrimination. It was an important down-payment in ending the pay gap and keeping the courthouse doors open. In his second inaugural address on January 21, 2013, President Obama called for equal pay for equal work once and for all. The Paycheck Fairness Act will close the loopholes that allow pay discrimination to continue in the first place and, with Ledbetter, provide employees the rights they need to challenge and eliminate pay discrimination in the workplace. “With a record number of women in the workforce, wage discrimination hurts the majority of American families, both in terms of their economic security today and their retirement security tomorrow,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This means fewer resources to pay the mortgage, send kids to college, or have a decent retirement. Pay inequity due to gender discrimination is real, it should not be tolerated, and we need to take action against it. The Paycheck Fairness Act is the path forward.” “Four years after the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act was signed into law to keep the courthouse doors open, it’s time to finish the job and stop wage discrimination from happening in the first place,” said Mikulski. “Equal pay is not just for our pocketbooks, it’s about family checkbooks and getting it right in the law books. The Paycheck Fairness Act ensures that women will no longer be fighting on their own for equal pay for equal work.” “Equal pay is not just a problem for women, but for families, who are trying to pay their bills, trying to get ahead, trying to achieve the American Dream, and are getting a smaller paycheck than they have earned for their hard work,” said DeLauro, who has introduced the Paycheck Fairness Act for each of the past eight congresses. “The Paycheck Fairness Act will help the Equal Pay Act fulfill its intended objective, offer real protections to ensure equal pay for equal work, and see that women are paid the same as the other half of our nation’s workforce for the same job.” The Paycheck Fairness Act builds upon the landmark Equal Pay Act signed into law in 1963 by closing loopholes that have kept it from achieving its goal of equal pay. The bill would require employers to show pay disparity is truly related to job-performance—not gender. It prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers. Under current law employers can sue and punish employees for sharing such information. In addition, it strengthens remedies for pay discrimination by increasing compensation women can seek, allowing them to not only seek back pay, but also punitive damages for pay discrimination. Finally the bill empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills, and requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities. State-by-state data on the wage gap is available here. ###
01.09.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Swayze & Pancreatic Cancer Action Network Announce New Cancer Research Law January 9th, 2013 PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today a new law aimed at developing better treatments and potential cures for the deadliest of cancers. She was joined by Julie Fleshman, president and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, Lisa Niemi Swayze, wife of the late Patrick Swayze and Chief Ambassador of Hope for the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, in addition to leading cancer research advocates at Stanford University Hospital. Eshoo was recognized by the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network for her leadership and presented with the Congressional Champion of Hope Award by Fleshman. Called the Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act, the new law requires the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to examine its current research efforts on cancers with very low survival rates, including pancreatic and lung cancer, and work to develop early detection methods and better treatment options to improve outcomes. The NCI will develop a long-term plan, or scientific framework, for pancreatic and other recalcitrant cancers to gauge its current efforts in the disease and make recommendations on ways to speed progress. The Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act was signed into law by President Obama as a part of the National Defense Authorization Act on January 3, 2013. Rep. Eshoo authored and first introduced the legislation five years ago in honor of her friend, Ambassador Richard Sklar, a victim of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer, and many other recalcitrant cancers like it, is a devastating disease with few survivors. Only six percent of people diagnosed with pancreatic cancer live longer than five years, and 74 percent of patients die within a year of diagnosis. “We’ve made great strides in treatment options and cures for many types of cancer,” Rep. Eshoo said. “But the high mortality rate for recalcitrant cancers has remained steady. To this day, when a patient is diagnosed with a recalcitrant form of cancer, it’s as good as a death wish. I believe we can do better, which is why I fought so hard for this legislation.” “My husband Patrick fought courageously against pancreatic cancer before passing away 22 months after his diagnosis. But while pancreatic cancer may have taken him in the end, it never beat him. And for me, just because he’s gone doesn’t mean this fight is over. I am proud to have continued his battle against pancreatic cancer and being a part of this important victory means everything,” said Lisa Niemi Swayze. “I have been incredibly honored to work side-by-side with so many dedicated and passionate pancreatic cancer advocates, and I know that Patrick would be proud too that he was a part of this fight, one that is going to change the outcome for so many future generations. This legislation will provide hope to all those facing this devastating disease.” “The adoption of the Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act is a historic victory in the fight against deadly cancers—particularly pancreatic cancer—as it is the first legislation designed specifically with the disease in mind. This milestone would not have been possible without the leadership and dedication of Representative Eshoo. We applaud her tremendous effort to get the bill signed into law, along with our other bill champions Representative Leonard Lance (R-NJ) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI),” said Julie Fleshman, president and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. “This legislation provides hope for pancreatic cancer patients and their loved ones. Today we celebrate this important step, but we do so while honoring the memory of so many people whose lives were cut short by pancreatic cancer.” “All cancer patients hope for cure, or at the very least, treatments to afford them longer quality filled time,” said Dr. George Fisher, Associate Professor of Medicine at Stanford University School of Medicine. “When a cure is not available with standard treatments, they hope for breakthroughs in research that may benefit them. This legislation will give our patients with the most difficult cancers a reason to hope for better outcomes by accelerating the science and focusing research efforts on those diseases with the greatest need for improvement.” A one page fact sheet with information about pancreatic cancer can be found here. ###
01.07.2013	+ SHARE Leading Energy and Commerce Members Urge Swift FCC Action on 4G Interoperability January 7th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a letter today to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski, four senior Energy and Commerce Committee Members are encouraging the Commission to act swiftly to ensure interoperability over 4G LTE mobile broadband networks for a more competitive, consumer friendly wireless market. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Mike Doyle (D-Penn.) and Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) joined together in sending the letter. A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
01.04.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill Honoring Iraq War Hero to Become Law January 4th, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after her bill designating a Mountain View, California post office as the Lieutenant Kenneth M. Ballard Memorial Post Office received final passage in the Senate and will become law: “When duty called, Lieutenant Ballard answered for his country. He was brave, courageous and a hero. For his service, he should be remembered and honored by our community.” Rep. Eshoo’s bill garnered the support of the entire California Congressional delegation, the Mountain View City Council and passed by unanimous consent in the Senate. Background on Lieutenant Ballard Kenneth Michael Ballard was born in Rome, New York, in 1977, and moved to Mountain View, California in 1981. After graduating from Mountain View High School in 1995, he enlisted in the Army and attended basic training at Fort Knox, Kentucky. He went on to serve in Germany, Bosnia, Macedonia, and Iraq. He won the Gold to Green Army ROTC Scholarship and attended Middle Tennessee State University. After graduation he returned to Germany and was then deployed to Iraq. On May 30, 2004, Lieutenant Ballard was killed in Najaf, Iraq by accidental discharge of the M-240 weapon mounted on his vehicle. ###
01.03.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lofgren Statements on FTC-Google Settlement January 3rd, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, and Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose), senior Member of the Judiciary Committee, released the following statements today regarding the Federal Trade Commission’s (FTC) antitrust settlement with Google: “Following its investigation, the FTC’s settlement with Google strikes an appropriate balance that protects consumers and preserves innovation,” Rep. Eshoo said. “At a time when the market for smartphones, tablets and other wireless devices continues to flourish, the settlement ensures that competitors will have access to the patents essential to powering these key technologies.” “Furthermore, despite a thorough investigation into allegations of search bias, the FTC ultimately decided against taking action that could hinder innovation and consumer choice. I applaud this decision, which recognizes the evolving Internet search market and the exciting innovations that have been the hallmark of the Internet to date,” Eshoo continued. “I’m pleased the FTC chose to complete its investigation of Google’s search practices with an enforceable agreement to protect consumers without impermissibly expanding the jurisdictional reach of the FTC,” said Rep. Lofgren. “It’s good that the consent agreement between the FTC and Google on patents will help ensure consumers continue to benefit from new and innovative products and services that connect them to the Internet. Providing entrepreneurs and companies with greater access to standard technologies will help keep this key marketplace strong and diverse—creating jobs and growing our economy,” Lofgren said. In a letter to the FTC last November, Eshoo and Lofgren expressed concerns over the Commission’s antitrust investigation of Google. ###
01.01.2013	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Fiscal Negotiations January 1st, 2013 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today regarding ongoing fiscal negotiations in Congress: “The legislation passed by the Senate on an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote to avoid the fiscal cliff represents an important compromise, and I will vote for it in the House. It guarantees that 98 percent of Americans will not see their taxes increase permanently. It addresses the dreaded Alternative Minimum Tax prudently. Unemployment insurance benefits will not be discontinued. Doctors who care for the elderly will not have their Medicare payments cut by 27 percent. “While the legislation is not a ‘grand bargain’ and leaves critical issues to be dealt with in the near future, I will vote for it precisely because it is a bipartisan compromise. I urge the Speaker to bring the Senate-passed bill to the floor of the House immediately for an up-down vote. “The American people have been dragged through enough, and our fragile economy cannot sustain Congressional failure to act. A great country does not jump off a fiscal cliff.” ###
12.21.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse, Lance: Cancer Research Bill to Become Law December 21st, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Leonard Lance (R-N.J.) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) today hailed final passage of their legislation to establish a national recalcitrant cancer initiative to create a strategic plan to target the high mortality rate associated with recalcitrant cancers, such as pancreatic cancer, and give the National Cancer Institute (NCI) the tools it needs for earlier diagnosis, better treatment and hope for a cure. The bill passed the House and Senate as part of the Defense Authorization bill, and it will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “When a patient is told by their doctor that they have pancreatic cancer, it’s essentially a death sentence,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Like many other forms of recalcitrant cancers, pancreatic cancer has a near zero survival rate. We can do better to increase the survival rate of recalcitrant cancers. This new law will help us achieve that goal.” “I hope this legislation will help to secure a brighter future for patients suffering from recalcitrant cancers like lung cancer and pancreatic cancer,” said Whitehouse, whose mother died of pancreatic cancer. “I’ve met with too many Rhode Islanders who have lost a loved one to these deadly cancers. On their behalf, I thank all of my colleagues for supporting this common-sense bill, and I look forward to having the President sign it into law.” “I am very pleased that this important cancer research legislation received final congressional approval and is so close to becoming the law of the land. This bill will go a long way toward improving prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancers with high mortality rates, and I am hopeful that President Obama will quickly sign this legislation into law,” said Congressman Lance. “The passage of this bill is a milestone in the history of pancreatic cancer. This is the first substantive legislation for this disease. On behalf of the entire pancreatic cancer community, we commend Congress for passing the Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act and are deeply grateful for the leadership and continued support of all of the bill’s champions, Representatives Anna Eshoo and Leonard Lance and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse,” said Julie Fleshman, president and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. “This moment would not have been possible if it wasn’t for their dedication and the incredible commitment and hard work of our volunteer network.” Rep. Eshoo first introduced the bill in 2007 to honor the memory of her dear friend Ambassador Richard Sklar, who was a victim of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic cancer is a devastating disease with only a 6 percent survival rate of longer than five years—75 percent of those diagnosed die within a year. As the survival rates of other types of cancer have increased, pancreatic and other forms of recalcitrant cancers are still some of the most lethal. The new law will apply to all recalcitrant cancers, those cancers with a high mortality rate and few treatment options. It directs the NCI to begin their strategic plans with pancreatic and lung cancers. ###
12.14.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Praises New EPA Air Quality Standard December 14th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized new national ambient air quality standards for soot, or fine particle air matter. The new annual health standard of allowable soot is down three micrograms per cubic meter from the 1997 standard of 15 micrograms per cubic meter. “High levels of air pollution threaten the health of those most vulnerable,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The EPA’s stronger soot standards will mean cleaner, healthier air for families, friends and neighbors across the country.” Rep. Eshoo has long advocated for stronger air quality standards to improve the health and wellness of Americans and our environment. She recently wrote to President Obama calling on the EPA to strengthen its soot standards. ###
12.14.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on U.S. Action at World Telecommunications Conference in Dubai December 14th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statement today after 89 countries signed a telecommunications treaty in Dubai at the World Conference on International Telecommunications (WCIT): “In order to sustain the Internet’s continued growth and unfettered access, we cannot allow the overly burdensome regulations agreed to in Dubai become the norm. I commend the U.S. delegation for taking a stand in the name of a free and open Internet by not agreeing to the proposed resolution. They are joined by many other ITU member countries, as well as industry and civic leaders around the world who are committed to defending the longstanding principles that have made the Internet such a success story.” ###
12.13.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse & Industry Leaders Trumpet New Law to Stop High Volume Commercials December 13th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.) were joined by industry leaders to trumpet a new law taking effect today that turns down the volume on loud commercials. The law, known as the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation Act or CALM Act, requires broadcast, cable, satellite and other video providers to keep the volume of commercials at a level consistent with regular TV programming. Eshoo was the original author of the law. “Earsplitting television ads have jolted and annoyed viewers for decades,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With this new law, loud TV commercials that make consumers run for the mute button or change the channel altogether will be a thing of the past.” “Loud TV commercials have been among the most common consumer complaints to the FCC for decades now,” said Senator Whitehouse. “While this is a small issue compared to the big challenges facing our nation, it is an unnecessary annoyance in the daily lives of many Americans, and I’m glad to have done something about it.” “Broadcasters have taken the lead in addressing the complex technical challenges associated with this issue,” said Gordon Smith, President and CEO of the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB). “NAB is pleased to work with Congresswoman Eshoo, Senator Whitehouse and the FCC as the CALM Act is implemented.” “We thank Congresswoman Eshoo and Senator Whitehouse for enacting sensible legislation that will improve the consumer TV experience,” said Michael Powell, President and CEO of the National Cable & Telecommunications Association. “Our industry will continue to work closely with the FCC and the entire TV ecosystem to prevent loud commercials from being a disruption.” “ATSC approved the recommended practice, ‘Techniques for Establishing and Maintaining Audio Loudness for Digital Television,’ known as A/85 in 2009,” said Mark Richer, President of the Advanced Television Systems Committee. “The CALM Act requires the FCC to mandate use of A/85 as the basis for regulation of commercial audio loudness. I want to thank Congresswoman Eshoo for her confidence in ATSC to provide the industry developed technical strategies necessary to control the audio loudness of commercial advertisements.” Background: Loud commercials have been a top consumer complaint to the FCC for decades, and were listed as such in 21 of the FCC’s 25 quarterly reports between 2002 and 2009. According to a 2009 Harris poll, almost 90 percent of TV viewers are bothered by high commercial volumes, prompting 41 percent of viewers to turn down the volume, 22 percent to mute the TV, and 17 percent to change the channel altogether. Prior to Eshoo’s legislation, the official FCC policy recommended that consumers mute commercials if they found them to be excessively strident. Rep. Eshoo first introduced the CALM Act in the House in June 2008. Senator Whitehouse’s companion bill passed the Senate unanimously on September 29, 2010 and the House passed the legislation on December 2, 2010. President Obama signed Eshoo’s legislation into law on December 15, 2010. The FCC passed its final rules implementing the law in December 2011. FCC Consumer Guide – CALM Act ###
12.04.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Funding for Silicon Valley Energy Technology Projects December 4th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, announced today $5.8 million in funding for four innovative energy technology projects across the 14th Congressional District. The funds were awarded by the Energy Department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy (ARPA-E) through its “OPEN 2012” program. Rep. Eshoo has been a strong advocate for the fundamental research needed to develop revolutionary energy technologies and worked directly with business and academic leaders from Silicon Valley to propose the ARPA-E initiative. “The innovative energy applications of tomorrow will be born out of our investments today,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Consumers, businesses, universities and local schools will all benefit from a brighter energy future. These awards are a commitment to that vision and demonstrate how Silicon Valley will be a focal point of America’s energy revolution for years to come.” ARPA-E seeks out innovative and promising projects that have the potential to revolutionize energy technology for the next generation. The projects selected offer simple, cost-effective solutions to a number of energy issues. The following projects in the 14th Congressional District were awarded funding in this announcement: $399,901 to Stanford University Photonic Radiative Day-Time Cooling Devices: Stanford Univeristy will develop a coating for the rooftops of buildings and cars that reflects sunlight and allows heat to escape, enabling passive cooling, even when the sun is shining. This device requires no electricity and would reduce the need for air conditioning, leading to energy and cost saving. $523,172 to Glint Photonics, Inc. Self-Tracking Concentrator Photovoltaics: Glint will develop a solar concentrator that can capture the full amount of available sunlight regardless of the sun’s position. Unlike today’s technology, this concentrator does not require complex moving parts to track the sun’s movements. Glint’s inexpensive design uses an automatic optical system of fluid layers that adjust their positions in response to solar heat. $4,000,000 to Alveo Energy Open Framework Electrode Batteries for Cost-Effective Energy Storage: Alveo Energy will develop a grid-scale storage battery using Prussian Blue dye as the basis for active material within the battery. Prussian Blue is inexpensive, readily available, and most commonly known for its application in blueprint documents. Alveo will repurpose this inexpensive dye for a new battery that can endure more charges under more extreme circumstances without suffering internal damage, helping to facilitate the adoption and deployment of renewable energy technology. $935,196 to Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) Printed Integral Batteries: PARC will develop an innovative manufacturing process for lithium-ion batteries that reduces manufacturing costs and improves performance. PARC’s printing process would manufacture narrow stripes within battery layers that could improve the amount of energy storage allowing an extended electric vehicle driving range. ###
12.04.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Court Decision Upholding FCC Data Roaming Rules December 4th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, issued the following statement today after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected Verizon’s appeal of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) data roaming rules: “I welcome the Court’s decision rejecting Verizon’s challenge of the FCC’s data roaming rules. These rules promote competition and the seamless availability of wireless services consumers have come to expect. Such rules are particularly important for smaller wireless carriers that often have little choice for roaming partners other than their largest rivals.” Early last year, Rep. Eshoo led a letter to FCC Chairman Genachowski in support of the Commission implementing its data roaming rules. A copy of the letter can be found here. ###
11.29.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges Small Businesses to Get Online November 29th, 2012 “California Get Your Business Online” Program Comes to Mountain View PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the U.S. Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, announced today that Google is bringing its California Get Your Business Online program to Mountain View on Tuesday, December 4th. At the California Get Your Business Online event, Google experts will help small business owners create their own websites, courtesy of Intuit. Businesses will also receive a customized domain name; free web hosting for one year; a local business listing on Google Maps; and free tools, training and resources. Google experts will be on hand to train the business owners on how to reach more customers online. “Getting your business online is no longer a luxury—it’s a necessity,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This workshop will make it easy and give local small-business owners the necessary tools to be successful in the online marketplace.” California Get Your Business Online is an easy and fast way for California businesses to get a website and become more visible online, where the majority of people are going to find goods and services. While 97 percent of Internet users look online for local products and services, 62 percent of California small businesses do not have a website or online presence. “The perception that getting online is complex, costly and time-consuming has prevented many California small businesses from taking the first step,” said Scott Levitan, Director of Small Business Engagement at Google. “This program makes it fast, easy and free for businesses to get online.” “Today’s business climate is increasingly competitive and small businesses more than ever need the right tools to compete. One of the roles of our Chamber of Commerce is to foster economic development. This is why we are proud to partner with Google to help local businesses establish and maximize their online presence,” said Oscar Garcia, President and CEO of the Mountain View Chamber of Commerce. “The health of the Mountain View economy is tied to the success of our small businesses. This public-private partnership between the City, the Chamber of Commerce and Google to offer California Get your Business Online is a great opportunity for our local small businesses to develop skills and knowledge to leverage the Internet and maximize their returns,” said Mike Kasperzak, Mayor of the City of Mountain View. The California Get Your Business Online event will be held on Tuesday, December 4th at Google headquarters in Mountain View, California. Details for the event can be found here. Businesses unable to attend the event can still get a free website and resources by going to www.CaliforniaGetOnline.com. More information about the program and the Mountain View events is also available on the website. ###
11.08.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Says Open Internet Is Vital Following AT&T Open Service Announcement November 8th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statement today after AT&T announced it would commit to open service beyond the company’s Mobile Share plan. The decision comes after concerns that AT&T violated open Internet rules, specifically when the company blocked customers who are not on the Mobile Share plan from using Apple’s FaceTime app over the carrier’s mobile network. “I applaud AT&T’s announcement to commit to open service beyond its Mobile Share plan,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This is a victory for consumers and for those who know a free and open Internet is vital to sustaining our rapidly expanding mobile technology market.” ###
10.09.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Speaks at State of the Net West October 9th, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, today spoke at State of the Net West, a technology forum hosted by the Congressional Internet Caucus Advisory Committee. Her prepared remarks follow: “As I look around the room, I see laptops, smartphones and tablets – a reflection of our insatiable appetite for wireless broadband. Last year alone, U.S. mobile data traffic grew by almost 300 percent. And with traffic estimated to grow an additional 16 times by 2016, we must make freeing up more spectrum a top priority. “Recognizing that the looming spectrum crunch is very real, much of my work as Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee has been focused on how to repurpose this scare resource towards wireless broadband. “The passage of bipartisan spectrum legislation earlier this year was an important victory for our Subcommittee and the wireless industry but even more so for our nation. More than 10 years after 9/11, we finally delivered on our promise to provide our first responders with a nationwide, interoperable communications network. We’ve committed to a next-generation 9-1-1 system, enabling first responders to receive photos, video, and text messages, which can improve the quality and speed of emergency response. Unlicensed spectrum will continue to be a platform for innovation that supports the next generation of entrepreneurs and small businesses, enabling new applications and services like: smart grid, medical patient monitoring and broadband Internet access to local schools, libraries and other anchor institutions. Through incentive auction authority broadcast television spectrum can be repurposed on a voluntary basis to support our growing demand for wireless broadband. “With the process for implementing these important provisions now underway, we should turn our attention to what faster, more robust wireless broadband access means for innovation, job creation and investment here in Silicon Valley, and whether any barriers stand in the way of continued growth. “Just four years ago, Apple’s App store contained only 500 third-party apps. Today, there are over 500,000. And based on a study released just last week, the app economy has created 151,900 jobs in California, with an economic impact of more than $8 billion. These apps inform, entertain, and make lives easier every day. No longer are mobile devices just a means for accessing e-mail and basic news on the go. They now allow us to stream movies, play online games, participate in video conferences, and much more. “Despite this growth, I worry about a growing set of threats that could curtail what’s underway. As the FCC’s open Internet rules continue to be litigated, we’ve seen recent examples that test the spirit of these rules, including the blocking of some customers from using Apple’s FaceTime video app over the AT&T network. I still believe the FCC has the authority to carry out its rules, but should the court overturn those rules, I will act quickly to introduce legislation clarifying the Commission’s authority to ensure a free and open Internet, while preventing the use of Internet “fast lanes” or other discriminatory tools. “Today’s video marketplace looks very different than the one that led Congress to pass the 1992 Cable Act. This has led many to ask whether changes in the way people consume video, particularly online, requires a Congressional update. Clearly, consumers want the freedom and flexibility to stream video content whenever and wherever they are. Yet, the rules preventing incumbent cable operators from withholding affiliated content from competitors, never anticipated online-based services like XFINITY Streampix or Hulu Plus. While we should be cautious not to enact rules that could curtail investment in these innovative services, their affiliation with incumbent providers shouldn’t be used to lock out competitors. “Third is the use of discriminatory data caps and their potential to impact the growing streaming video market. Earlier this summer, it was widely reported that the Department of Justice had begun looking into whether data caps unfairly limit online video competition. While we don’t know the extent of this inquiry, it falls on my Subcommittee to thoroughly examine the issue and ensure that future innovation is not curtailed. “Finally, is the importance of data roaming rules that promote competition and the seamless availability of the wireless services consumers have come to expect. Such rules are particularly important for smaller wireless carriers who often have little choice for roaming partners other than their largest rivals. Last month, oral arguments were heard in a case challenging the FCC’s data roaming rules. I’ve consistently advocated for Commission action in this area, and I’ll continue to do so in order to ensure a competitive wireless marketplace. “I’m proud of our Subcommittee’s accomplishments this Congress, but we have much more work ahead. In addition to the issues I’ve highlighted today, I expect we’ll continue in the next Congress with an emphasis on how federal agencies can more efficiently use the spectrum they hold, both through reallocation and sharing. Vigorous oversight will be needed to ensure the successful implementation of voluntary incentive auctions and the nationwide public safety communications network. The failure of Congress to pass comprehensive cybersecurity legislation this year is unacceptable and will need to be addressed as soon as possible. And finally, the Subcommittee will need to reauthorize the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA) which expires in December 2014. “Throughout these efforts, my focus will be on championing policies that advance innovation, competition and ensure a vibrant sector that benefits consumers for many years to come.” ###
10.03.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Proposed T-Mobile – MetroPCS Merger October 3rd, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, issued the following statement today on the proposed merger of T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS: “At a time when two companies continue to dominate the wireless marketplace, the need for a strong national competitor has never been greater. “The proposed merger of T-Mobile and MetroPCS has the right ingredients to provide consumers with a viable alternative for wireless voice and data service. “I hope the FCC and the Department of Justice will conduct a thorough, but swift review of the transaction’s merits.” ###
09.28.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on FCC Proposed Spectrum Auction Rules September 28th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statement today after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) approved a notice of proposed rulemaking for an incentive auction of broadcast television spectrum: “The FCC’s adoption of a proposed rulemaking to implement a voluntary incentive spectrum auction begins the process of fulfilling Congress’s vision for fast, ubiquitous broadband to all Americans. The proposal recognizes the need for a competitive wireless landscape and the importance of a nationwide block of spectrum dedicated to unlicensed innovation. The Commission’s action today lays the foundation for a 21st century spectrum policy that will drive American innovation, create new jobs and increase consumer choice.” ###
09.27.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Edwards, Eshoo, Markey: Hacking Threats to Implantable Medical Devices Call for Improved FDA Oversight September 27th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reacting to the findings of a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report they requested last year, three senior House Democrats today are calling on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to improve its oversight of implantable wireless medical devices. In recent demonstrations, computer security experts revealed that some implantable medical devices can be remotely controlled by a hacker, posing potentially serious health risks to patients. The GAO report, “MEDICAL DEVICES: FDA Should Expand Its Consideration of Information Security for Certain Types of Devices,” found that both the FDA and medical device manufacturers have been slow to respond to this emerging threat. “FDA has not considered information security risks resulting from intentional threats,” the GAO concluded. More specifically, the agency failed to consider “intentional threats” in the pre-market approval and evaluation of two devices that were successfully hacked, an implantable cardiac defibrillator and insulin pump. The GAO also found that the FDA has not utilized resources available from other government agencies, particularly the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), which maintains a federal computer security vulnerability database and provides guidance and standards related to computer security. The three lawmakers who requested the review were: Ms. Donna F. Edwards, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Technology and Innovation, Committee on Science, Space and Technology, Ms. Anna G. Eshoo, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, Committee on Energy and Commerce and Co-chair of the House Medical Technology Caucus and Mr. Edward J. Markey, former Chairman of the telecommunications subcommittee and current senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Even the human body is vulnerable to attack from computer hackers,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Implantable medical devices have resulted in tremendous medical benefits for the patients who use them, but the demonstrated security risks require a renewed emphasis by the FDA and manufacturers to identify, evaluate and plug the potentially rare but serious security holes that exist in these devices.” “It is unacceptable that the Food and Drug Administration is ignoring the resources of other government agencies in evaluating life-saving medical devices,” said Rep. Edwards. “In the future, I expect the agency to utilize the computer security expertise offered by NIST and other federal agencies to assess the security risks posed by these devices. The FDA must address potential threats and close security gaps in order to have the full confidence of Congress and the American people.” “Wireless medical devices are susceptible to increasingly advanced hacking techniques that could threaten patient health,” said Rep. Markey. “Patients need to be informed about whether the medical devices implanted in their bodies contain security vulnerabilities that could harm them so they can take appropriate precautions whenever possible. This report underscores the need to require manufacturers to acknowledge these threats and for FDA to address the risks before the devices are sold to the public.” GAO Recommendations To address security issues, the GAO recommends in the report that the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services direct the Commissioner of the FDA to develop and implement a more comprehensive plan to assist FDA in enhancing its review and surveillance of medical devices that more fully incorporates information security into these devices. The GAO listed four actions by the FDA that should be included in this plan: The FDA should increase its focus on manufacturers’ identification of potential unintentional and intentional computer security threats and vulnerabilities and strategies to mitigate these risks during its pre-market approval review process; Utilize available resources, including those from other entities, such as other federal agencies; Leverage its post-market efforts to identify and investigate information security problems; and Establish a specific schedule for completing this review and implementing these changes. The GAO report, “MEDICAL DEVICES: FDA Should Expand Its Consideration of Information Security for Certain Types of Devices,“ GAO-12-816, September 2012, will be available here: http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-12-816 GAO_Medical_Implants_-_Backgrounder.pdf ###
09.25.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, DeLauro Support Equity for Female Farmers and Ranchers September 25th, 2012 Call for Continued Improvements to the Claims Process WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) released the following statements today in response to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) announcement that they are beginning the time period to file a claim for women and Hispanic farmers and ranchers who have suffered discrimination by the agency. “The USDA’s announcement is encouraging, but more should be done to help women farmers who were discriminated against in the past. And we must take steps to ensure it does not happen again in the future,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I remain committed to working with the Administration to right this wrong.” “I am encouraged that the Administration is doing the right thing and ensuring that women farmers and ranchers do not suffer discrimination in the future,” Rep. DeLauro said. “While I continue to have reservations about parts of this claims process, I am glad to see it begin so women farmers and ranchers who have suffered discrimination in the past can finally see justice. I will continue to work with USDA to ensure a comprehensive, effective outreach process and ensure that all women are treated fairly.” DeLauro and Eshoo are longtime advocates for female farmers and in 2009 introduced the Equality for Women Farmers Act to address the issue and end USDA’s practice of discrimination. The legislation would establish a system to compensate women who have been victims of USDA gender inequality and ensure female farmers seeking loans in the future are considered on an equal basis with male farmers. The Congresswomen have also written multiple letters to the USDA and Department of Justice to highlight the discrimination and implore the Administration to rectify past injustices with a fair and effective claims process. The most recent Census of Agriculture identified more than a million female farm operators, approximately 300,000 of which are principal farm operators. That amounts to 14 percent of the 2.2 million farms in our country. An estimated 43,000 female farmers have been discriminatorily denied more than $4.6 billion in loans and servicing from USDA. The claims process announced today makes up to $1.33 billion available for cash awards and tax relief and as much as another $160 million available for farm debt relief. If you are a female or Hispanic farmer who has been discriminated against please call 1-888-508-4429 or go to farmerclaims.gov. Eligible farmers and ranchers can file claims between September 24, 2012 and March 25, 2013. ###
09.21.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on National Plug-In Day September 21st, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today in recognition of National Plug-In Day, September 23, 2012. National Plug-In Day is a nationwide observance drawing global attention to the environmental, economic and other benefits of plug-in electric vehicles through simultaneous events staged around the country. Over 60 cities across America are expected to participate this year. “Electric vehicle deployment will reduce air pollution and CO emissions, save consumers money on fuel costs, create domestic jobs and eventually help integrate more variable renewable energy into the grid,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This National Plug-In Day is an opportunity to highlight eliminating our dependence on foreign oil, and for the U.S. to become a global clean energy leader by showcasing the latest electric drive technology.” Rep. Eshoo has been a staunch advocate in Congress for the development and deployment of electric drive vehicles. During the 111th Congress, Rep. Eshoo introduced a bill that would establish a program under the Department of Energy to integrate plug-in electric drive vehicles in regions across the country. It allows individuals or groups of state and local governments to apply to the Energy Department for financial assistance in furthering the regional deployment of plug-in electric vehicles. This legislation was included in the House-passed American Clean Energy and Security Act. In March 2012, President Obama included electric vehicle deployment components of Rep. Eshoo’s bill in the “National Community Deployment Challenge” to spur deployment of clean, advanced vehicles around the country. Rep. Eshoo’s electric vehicle deployment legislation has also been included in H.R. 1875, Building Our Clean Energy Future Now Act, to End Tax Breaks for Big Oil, and Lower Gas Prices, and H.R.1685 the Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment Act. For Silicon Valley and the South Bay Area in California, the National Plug-In Day event will be the 40th Annual EV Rally & Show, featuring a large display of plug-in vehicles, free rides in electric cars, an area to test-drive personal electric vehicles, as well as a number of green companies represented. More information about the event can be found here. ###
09.19.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Cancer Bill Passes House September 19th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after the House passed her bill to improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancers with high mortality rates, such as pancreatic cancer. The Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act (H.R. 733) directs the National Cancer Institute to develop a long-term strategic plan for addressing “recalcitrant cancers,” or those with a high mortality rate and few treatment options. “More than 37,000 Americans will be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer this year, and hundreds of thousands more will be diagnosed with other recalcitrant forms of the disease,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Sadly, far fewer will survive because we have no early detection tools and few effective treatments. My legislation will bring together the finest minds in our country with expertise in each recalcitrant cancer, creating a roadmap for navigating research on early detection, new diagnostic tools, and even cures. With 293 bipartisan cosponsors, I’m exceedingly proud of the pancreatic cancer advocates in my District and around the country who have helped to make this bill a reality.” “On behalf of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network and all those affected by pancreatic cancer, we applaud Rep. Eshoo for her leadership and dedication to moving the Recalcitrant Cancer Research Act, formerly known as the Pancreatic Cancer Research & Education Act, through Congress,” stated Julie Fleshman, president and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. “The passage of the legislation is a critical step towards increasing the five year survival rate of pancreatic cancer, which is just six percent—the lowest among leading causes of cancer death in the United States. The Congresswoman’s unwavering support of the entire pancreatic cancer community is truly appreciated.” Background: Under Rep. Eshoo’s bill, NCI is tasked with taking a new look at recalcitrant cancers by developing a scientific framework for each one. NCI will include outside experts and researchers to bring together the best available knowledge and research to conquer these difficult to understand cancers. NCI will then use these frameworks to guide future research decisions and grants to ensure there is a coordinated, focused approach for advancing research goals. Rep. Eshoo has introduced the Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act in the previous two Congresses. In the last Congress, the bill enjoyed the support of 247 bipartisan House Members. Rep. Eshoo’s bill has the support of 293 bipartisan cosponsors in the House, more than any of the 934 bills referred to the Energy and Commerce Committee in the 112th Congress. ###
09.17.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Advances Legislation to Honor Iraq War Hero September 17th, 2012
09.14.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on California Coastal Cleanup Day September 14th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today in recognition of California Coastal Cleanup Day, observed on September 15, 2012: “California’s coast is one of the world’s most beautiful and productive natural resources, and vigilant stewardship is required to preserve it for future generations. It’s especially important to participate in California Coastal Cleanup Day this year as our shoreline has begun to feel the effects of debris from the Japanese tsunami. Our goal should be to conserve, protect, and enhance the ecological integrity and cultural legacy of our magnificent coast.” Rep. Eshoo is a strong advocate in Congress for measures to protect and conserve our coastal and ocean resources. She has worked to enhance the working relationship between the two marine sanctuaries of the 14th Congressional District (Gulf of the Farallones and Monterey Bay) and their local partners and stakeholders. She has supported the sanctuary work at Pillar Point Harbor, and worked with Rep. Sam Farr to secure federal funding for a Sanctuary Visitors’ Center in Santa Cruz. About California Coastal Cleanup Day: California Coastal Day Cleanup Day is an annual inland waterway and beach cleanup and the state’s largest volunteer event. In 2010, over 82,500 volunteers removed more than 1.2 million pounds of trash and recyclables from beaches, lakes, and waterways. When combined with the International Coastal Cleanup, organized by the Ocean Conservancy, and taking place on the same day, California Coastal Cleanup Day becomes part of one of the largest volunteer events in the world. Learn more about California Coastal Cleanup Day and how you can participate here. ###
09.04.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Freeing of Ramil Safarov September 4th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Co-chair and Co-founder of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, released the following statement regarding Azerbaijan’s freeing of Ramil Safarov: “I’m deeply concerned about the release of Ramil Safarov by the Hungarian Government. Safarov, a former Azerbaijani military officer, was sentenced to life in prison by a Hungarian court for the murder of Armenian Gurgen Margaryan. This brutal hate crime took place during a 2004 NATO program and was motivated by the worst kind of ignorance and prejudice. Safarov’s release dangerously undermines the rule of law and peace throughout the region. The Azerbajani government should immediately reverse its decision to pardon Safarov.” ###
08.20.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Appointment of FirstNet Board Members August 20th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statement after the announcement of the First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet) Board of Directors: “Today’s announcement is an important step toward deploying a nationwide, interoperable communications network for our first responders. The individuals selected to serve on the FirstNet Board bring decades of experience as public safety officials, former telecommunications executives as well as local and state government officials. I congratulate them on their selection and am confident that they’ll bring the leadership needed to oversee the build-out, deployment, and operation of this network in a timely and efficient manner.” The 12 appointees announced today include: Tim Bryan, CEO, National Rural Telecommunications Cooperative Charles “Chuck” Dowd, Deputy Chief, New York City Police Department F. Craig Farrill, wireless telecommunications executive Paul Fitzgerald, Sheriff, Story County, Iowa Samuel “Sam” Ginn (Chairman), telecommunications executive Jeffrey Johnson, Fire Chief, retired; former Chair, State Interoperability Executive Council, State of Oregon; CEO Western Fire Chiefs Association William Keever, retired telecommunications executive Kevin McGinnis, Chief/CEO, North East Mobile Health Services Ed Reynolds, retired telecommunications executive Susan Swenson, telecommunications/technology executive Teri Takai, Government information technology expert; former CIO, States of Michigan and California; former President, National Association of State Chief Information Officers (NASCIO) Wellington Webb, Founder, Webb Group International; former Mayor of Denver, Colorado FirstNet, authorized by Congress under Title VI of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, is an independent authority within the Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration to deploy and manage the nation’s first nationwide interoperable public safety broadband network. In addition to the 12 non-permanent appointments made today, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Attorney General and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget serve as permanent members of the Board. Additional information about FirstNet can be found at NTIA’s website. ###
08.10.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, DeLauro Urge Administration to Improve Discrimination Claims Process for Women Farmers August 10th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.) wrote to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) last week requesting that the agencies take steps to address continued unfair treatment against women farmers under the Administrative Claims Program. Two court cases—Garcia vs. Vilsack and Love vs. Vilsack—allege that the USDA improperly denied women and Hispanic farmers loan benefits as did African-American and Native-American farmers in similar cases that have settled. In an effort to provide relief, the USDA has created the Administrative Claims Program to resolve the claims of farmers who allege they were unjustifiably denied benefits because of their ethnic background or gender. “While we applaud the Administration for working to resolve the discrimination claims, we remain troubled by the different treatment that women farmers will receive under the proposed claims process,” Reps. Eshoo and DeLauro wrote in a letter to Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and Attorney General Eric Holder. “We believe that women farmers should be offered the potential for compensation on similar terms as African-American and Native-American farmers. We strongly urge the Administration to improve the program before it is launched.” In their letter, Eshoo and DeLauro cite continued barriers for women to access relief from the claims program, such as exclusion if their spouse filed in another claims process, or if a woman filed a claim in a previous program that was never evaluated. The lawmakers also expressed that information about outreach and notice of the program to women farmers who may have been discriminated against is still limited, causing concern that affected women may never know of their benefits or miss the filing period. Eshoo and DeLauro also cited that, unlike Native American and African-American farmers, there is no proposal by the Administration to include legal representation for women. 8.3.12_Letter_to_USDA_DOJ.pdf ###
08.09.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Waxman: Automaker Issues Safety Fix for “Jeep Wobble” Problem August 9th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Following a request made by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.) for Chrysler Group to undertake an outreach campaign alerting Jeep owners and employees of uncontrollable shaking, or “wobble,” in the front suspension of some late model Wranglers, the automaker has issued a Technical Service Bulletin (TSB) addressing the safety issue. Consumers now have an official recommendation from the automaker on how to diagnose, repair or prevent this problem. “Anyone who has experienced ‘wobble’ has been legitimately frightened for their safety,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Chrysler’s decision to issue an official method of repair for this problem is the right thing to do for its customers and for the safety of others on the road.” “Affected drivers deserve clear and consistent answers on how to address their safety concerns,” said Rep. Waxman. “I am pleased that Chrysler has taken this step.” Chrysler has already provided the TSB to Jeep dealers and posted a summary of the TSB on several Jeep blogs, including jeepforum.com. The automaker also shared the TSB with the National Highway Transportation Safety Agency (NHTSA). Reps. Eshoo and Waxman first began inquiring about “wobble” after learning of consumer reports of the problem. On March 19, 2012, the two lawmakers wrote to NHTSA to inquire about the problem and determine whether the Administration believed it poses a safety risk. NHTSA’s response indicated that it did not meet the threshold for mandatory safety action, and the lawmakers instead encouraged Chrysler to take voluntary action to mitigate the issue and better inform owners. ###
08.07.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Waxman, Markey: New GAO Report Calls for Updated Mobile Phone Radiation Requirements August 7th, 2012 Current standards developed 15 years ago may not reflect latest science WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, was joined by Reps. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) in releasing a new report they requested from the Government Accountability Office (GAO) that calls for the federal government to update exposure and testing standards for mobile phone radiation. The GAO issued the report in response to a request sent last year by the three lawmakers who had asked the agency to commence a thorough review of the status of existing research on the health risks of long-term mobile phone use, as well as the adequacy of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) existing radiation exposure limits and testing requirements. In light of the GAO’s findings, Reps. Eshoo, Waxman, and Markey are calling on the FCC to revise existing exposure and testing requirements for radiation emitted by mobile phones to reflect the most current scientific research. “While the GAO report indicates there is no evidence to suggest using a cell phone causes cancer, it’s important that safety standards are current and account for changing trends in cell phone use and technology,” said Rep. Eshoo. “As the number of users of wireless technology grows exponentially, the FCC should reevaluate acceptable radiation emission levels to determine if they need to be adjusted.” “The report shows we need more research on cell phones and their effects on human health,” said Rep. Waxman. “The FCC should coordinate this research with federal health agencies to ensure that the health effects of cell phones are properly understood and appropriate emission standards are set.” “With mobile phones in the pockets and purses of millions of Americans, we need a full understanding of the long-term impact of mobile phone use on the human body, particularly in children whose brains and nervous systems are still developing,” said Rep. Markey. “It has been 15 years since the FCC updated its requirements for the exposure and testing of mobile phones, and with the health of American consumers at stake, it is time we send these standards in for a check-up. I look forward to working with my Congressional colleagues and the FCC to ensure appropriate standards are established that reflect the latest science and the way consumers use their mobile phones today.” A copy of the GAO report, “Telecommunications: Exposure and Testing Requirements for Mobile Phones Should Be Reassessed” can be found HERE. A mobile phone, like any device that emits radio signals, transmits radio-frequency (RF) energy. At high levels, such as those used in X-rays, RF energy can heat biological tissues and cause damage. Mobile phones do not operate at a level high enough to cause this heating effect, but questions remain about whether RF energy emitted by mobile phones could cause other health issues, such as cancer. According to the new GAO report, FCC’s existing limit on the amount of radiation a mobile phone can safely emit is based on outdated research and should be re-examined. GAO investigators found that the current limit, which FCC established 15 years ago, “may not reflect the latest evidence” of the effects of mobile phone radiation. Since FCC last assessed the standards in 1996, scientists have made significant progress in understanding thermal and other effects of RF energy exposure. Furthermore, the FCC’s current testing protocols may not reflect the realistic conditions in which cell phones are used. The report states that the agency “has not reassessed its testing requirements to ensure that mobile phones do not exceed the RF energy exposure limit in all possible usage conditions”. For example, FCC does not require testing in which a subject stores the phone in a pocket, directly against the body, while using an ear piece to have a conversation. With approximately 286 million mobile phone subscribers in the United States, including growing numbers of children, the lawmakers believe it is vitally important to modernize testing requirements to determine whether mobile radiation has any detrimental short- or long-term health effects. In July, a spokeswoman for the FCC announced that the agency would conduct a “routine review” of mobile phone radiation standards to determine whether they required updating. However, she added, the agency is “confident that, as set, the emissions guidelines for devices pose no risks to consumers.” Reps. Eshoo, Waxman, and Markey called on the FCC last May not only to reassess the current radiation threshold in light of more recent research, but also to review mobile phone testing procedures to ensure that they reflect the realistic conditions under which consumers use their phones, such as where individuals hold and store their phones. ###
08.06.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement in Wake of Tragic Shooting at Sikh Temple August 6th, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA–Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Religious Minorities in the Middle East, released the following statement in the wake of the tragic shooting at a Sikh temple near Milwaukee: “The random act of violence that occurred at the Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin is shocking and disturbing. My prayers and thoughts are with the families of the victims and the entire Sikh community. “Enshrined in our Constitution is the freedom of worship, and this horrific act of violence reminds us that we must still work for the promotion of religious freedom and understanding.” ###
08.02.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails DoE Funding for Palo Alto Companies August 2nd, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) hailed the Department of Energy announcement today of $7.1 million in funding for two Palo Alto advanced battery research companies. Palo Alto Research Center and Robert Bosch LLC were awarded the funds under ARPA-E (Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy), a high-tech energy initiative Eshoo proposed in the Democratic Innovation Agenda and funded for the first time through the 2009 Recovery Act. “When it comes to America’s energy independence, everything counts,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This important funding will help leverage breakthroughs in advanced battery projects, leading to production of smarter, safer, cheaper and more efficient batteries for consumers.” Palo Alto Research Center was awarded $4 million for its project, which develops new fiber optic sensors that are inserted into battery packs to monitor and measure batteries during charge and discharge cycles. These compact fiber optical sensors will measure the battery’s health while in use to avoid degradation and failure. Bosch, awarded $3.1 million, will develop battery monitoring and control software to improve the energy utilization, reliability, and charge rate of electric vehicle batteries. The company’s advanced battery management system will help lead to developments in real-time modeling of a battery’s internal environment. These projects are supported through two new ARPA-E programs—Advanced Management and Protection of Energy Storage Devices (AMPED) and Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR). The programs focus on innovations in battery management and storage to advance electric vehicle technologies, help improve the efficiency and reliability of the electrical grid and provide important energy security benefits to America’s armed forces. ###
08.01.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on New Preventive Healthcare Services Under the Affordable Care Act August 1st, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today, which marks the beginning of new guaranteed preventive healthcare services for women under the Affordable Care Act. Previous to the new health care law, many health insurance plans did not cover basic women’s preventive care. Others had unaffordable co-payments for important women’s services. More than half of American women have delayed or forgone necessary care due to their costs. “Beginning today, 47 million women across the country, including five million women in California, will now receive important preventive services without co-pay because of the new healthcare law,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With these new provisions, women will no longer need to forgo preventive services to stay healthy, catch potentially life-threatening illnesses earlier, and protect against prohibitive medical costs.” The women’s preventive services that will be covered with no co-pays under these provisions include services that are essential to helping women stay healthy, including: Domestic violence screening FDA-approved contraception Breastfeeding support and supplies Gestational diabetes screening HPV testing Sexually transmitted infection counseling HIV screening Well-woman visits Additional information about the new women’s preventive services can be found here. ###
07.26.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against Pro-Drilling Bill July 26th, 2012 142nd Time This Congress WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after voting yesterday against the pro-drilling legislation, H.R. 6082. The bill would require oil and gas leasing off the West (Southern California) and East Coasts, and in the important fishery of Bristol Bay off Alaska. The legislation would also rush additional leasing offshore in the Arctic. “I’m strongly opposed to this bill, as I have been with all the other Big Oil bills which unnecessarily put at risk huge areas of public lands to oil drilling, including areas in California,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We should be considering a broader spectrum of solutions to address our nation’s energy needs. Perpetually debating the merits of risky offshore oil drilling operations along our nation’s coastlines only keeps Big Oil profiting and the American people without energy alternatives.” The bill would prevent proper environmental review of offshore drilling in the Atlantic, Pacific and Bristol Bay by requiring the Department of Interior to conduct a single multi-sale Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for these areas. Such EIS documents are usually done for lease sales in a specific area like the Gulf of Mexico, where conditions are similar. However, under this proposal, the Department would be forced to conduct a single environmental review for these three distinct and different areas. ###
07.20.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on New Federal Spectrum Report July 20th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statement today after the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) issued a new report titled, “Realizing the Full Potential of Government-Held Spectrum to Spur Economic Growth.” The development of the report brought together experts from industry, academia, and government and offers several key recommendations, including proposing the first ever shared-use spectrum superhighway between Federal agencies and the private sector. “As demand for wireless broadband continues to grow, we must think outside the box and embrace policies that maximize the scarce resource known as spectrum,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The release of PCAST’s report on government-held spectrum is forward-thinking and provides policymakers with a framework that embraces spectrum sharing, incentivizes Federal agency buy-in, builds on existing technologies, and proposes a new hierarchy for how spectrum is used.” “While the report offers many long-term recommendations, I’m excited by the potential for more immediate action to expand the availability of wireless broadband. By identifying the 3550-3650 MHz band under its ‘Fast Track’ review, NTIA and other federal agencies have already taken the first steps to enable more capacity and innovation. I hope the agencies will work as quickly as possible to make sure this spectrum is available to all Americans.” “With these recommendations, we have an opportunity to more efficiently use spectrum as well as spur economic growth, job creation, and new innovation. Adoption of these recommendations should be a national priority.” The full text of the report can be found here. ###
07.19.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces $4.9 Million Grant for Regional Bus Fleet Modernization July 19th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the San Mateo County Transit District was awarded $4.9 million to purchase its first fleet of energy efficient passenger vehicles. The grant comes under the Federal Transit Authority’s Bus and Bus Facilities Initiative. Earlier this year, Rep. Eshoo wrote the Federal Transit Administration requesting consideration of the project for the award. “After 15 years of solid service for community riders, this award will go a long way toward keeping the SamTrans bus system a viable transportation option,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With these new energy efficient buses, we will have a 21st century fleet that reduces harmful greenhouse gas emissions, keeps costs down, and helps grow our local economy.” The grant will advance the purchase of a new fleet of energy efficient replacement buses. SamTrans estimates that this project will create or retain manufacturing jobs in the area and will contribute more money to local workers through payment of wages. This project is also part of the Metropolitan Transportation Commission’s 2035 Regional Transportation Program and is included in the Regional Transit Capital Inventory, a regional state of good repair database for transit operators in the San Francisco Bay Area. ###
07.18.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Lance Lead 112 Members in Call for Energy & Commerce Committee Markup of Pancreatic Cancer Bill July 18th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a letter to the leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Leonard Lance (R-N.J.) and 112 of their House colleagues called for a markup of their bipartisan bill H.R. 733, the Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act. Reintroduced by Eshoo and Lance in February 2011, the Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act now has the support of 271 bipartisan House cosponsors. Its Senate companion bill has 56 cosponsors. The legislation establishes a national Pancreatic Cancer Initiative, creating a strategic plan to target the high mortality rate associated with the disease and to give the National Cancer Institute the tools it needs for earlier diagnosis, better treatment, and hope for a cure. “When treatments haven’t changed in more than 40 years, and only six percent of people diagnosed with pancreatic cancer live longer than five years, it’s time for something to change,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It’s our duty to take action. This bill will ensure that the necessary strategy and resources are in place to increase research, and improve diagnostics and treatments for those suffering from this terrible disease, which is in almost all cases a death sentence.” “Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer death. It is a disease without a cure or any means of early detection,” Rep. Lance said. “Yet despite these sobering statistics, America lacks a comprehensive, strategic plan to fight pancreatic cancer. To this end, I stand firm with pancreatic cancer patients and their families and my colleagues in the House and Senate in hope that a better plan is put forward so that a cure can be found to this terrible disease.” 7.17.12_Pancreatic_Cancer_Letter.pdf ###
07.18.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces $1.2 Million in Funding for Veteran Housing Assistance Programs in San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties July 18th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that Goodwill Industries in Santa Clara County and Shelter Network of San Mateo County together were awarded $1.2 million in funding from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for housing programs assisting homeless veterans. The grants were awarded under the VA’s Supportive Services for Veterans Families program. “When veterans return home, our commitment to ensuring they have life’s basic necessities, from health care to housing, must be unwavering,” Rep. Eshoo said. “These awards will go a long way to assist our returning veterans and their families who have made such enormous sacrifices for our country.” Goodwill Industries was awarded over $400,000 for its plans to serve approximately 52 participant households. Shelter Network was awarded over $800,000 in funding for its plans to serve approximately 300 participant households. Under the grants, homeless providers will offer veterans and their family members outreach, case management, assistance in obtaining VA benefits and assistance in getting other public benefits. They can also offer temporary financial assistance on behalf of veterans for rent payments, utility payments, security deposits and moving costs. ###
07.11.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Vote Against Health Law Repeal July 11th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today after voting against the Patients’ Rights Repeal Act, a Republican-led effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act, stripping millions of Americans of their access to affordable health care: “A vote to repeal the health care law is a vote to deny millions of Americans access to affordable health care coverage. In California’s 14th Congressional District, 36,000 children are no longer denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition; nearly 5,000 young adults up to the age of 26 have been able to stay insured under their parents’ plan; thousands of seniors have received prescription drug discounts worth millions in savings; and over 100,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without paying any co-pays, co-insurance, or deductibles. These numbers cannot be ignored. “Our country deserves something better than outrageous healthcare costs, bankruptcies caused by a single illness, and a system that allows health insurance companies to run amok with impunity. I’m proud to have voted against repealing the health law today and will continue my efforts to uphold the most successful health insurance reforms in the history of our country.” ###
07.09.2012	+ SHARE Energy and Commerce Leaders Request Information on Universal Service Fund July 9th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.–Today, Reps. Waxman, Upton, Eshoo, and Walden sent a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski requesting data from the agency to assess how funding from the Universal Service program is distributed. “In light of the important, initial reforms the FCC made to both the high-cost and low-income USF programs, we are asking several questions regarding the new and revised Universal Service mechanisms,” said Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman. “USF reform promises to better target funding to the millions of Americans currently unserved by broadband and wireless coverage, eliminate duplicative subsidies, and better align incentives to maximize scarce resources. We are requesting this data to help Congress and the public understand if and how USF reform is meeting those goals.” “With the recent steps taken by the FCC to modernize and reduce waste within the USF high-cost and low-income programs, it’s incumbent upon this Committee to have the most up-to-date performance information,” said Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo. “This is an important juncture on our way toward delivering a 21st century telecommunications infrastructure with affordable broadband for all Americans.” 7.9.2012_USF_Letter.pdf ###
07.09.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill Signed Into Law July 9th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after the President signed into law the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. The new law includes Eshoo’s reauthorization of the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). Eshoo’s reauthorization bill, referred to as the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012, incents pharmaceutical companies to conduct more clinical trials to study the effects of medications on children, and encourages more pediatric labeling to ensure proper dosage. “Today, with President Obama’s signature, children across our country have won,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act have played exemplary roles in the health and safety of America’s children and will continue to for years to come.” Background: Eshoo’s bill to reauthorize BPCA and PREA was recently voted out of the House and Senate with overwhelming support as part of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. In May, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved the bill with unanimous support. Eshoo has championed these programs for nearly a decade and was the original sponsor of the legislation. Congress first recognized the need to ensure that drugs were being studied in children in 1997 when it passed Eshoo’s legislation, BPCA, a bill to incent the study of off-label uses in pediatric populations by offering companies an additional six months of patent life on their product. In 2003, Congress passed another one of Eshoo’s bills, PREA, to study on-label indications in children, when safe and appropriate. More information on the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012, including a summary of the bill, a list of supporters, and additional letters of support, can be found here. ###
07.06.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Vote to Modernize Caltrain July 6th, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today applauded the California state legislature for approving funding to modernize Caltrain. The legislature approved a plan that is part of $1.5 billion funding agreement to electrify Caltrain. The plan will increase safety and energy efficiency, as well as stabilize the agency’s operating budget. “This is an historic moment and a huge win for the Peninsula,” Rep. Eshoo said. “An electrified Caltrain will be more efficient, increase revenue, and reduce costs. It will also connect to other rail segments throughout the state to reduce pollution and traffic, improve the movement of goods, and provide more options for the traveling public.” “The vote of the California legislature today will ensure that we have the best system for riders and local communities, which are my top transportation priorities for my constituents. Now, the little train that can, will.” Background: Rep. Eshoo has been a leading advocate for Caltrain modernization. In June 2010, she wrote an Op-Ed for the San Francisco Chronicle that outlined her support for Caltrain. In June 2011, she secured $16 million for a Positive Train Control system to improve Caltrain’s safety and efficiency, and also will provide the foundation for essential signaling. In April 2011, together with State Senator Joe Simitian and Assemblyman Rich Gordon, Rep. Eshoo called on the CHSRA and the local Joint Powers Board to develop plans for a blended system that integrates high-speed rail funds to create a 21st century Caltrain. Most recently, the Bay Area Council released a report that estimates that nearly 9,600 jobs will be created through a modernized Caltrain. It will also reduce pollution by 90 percent, and reduce energy consumption by 64 percent. ###
07.05.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Waxman Urge Automaker to Undertake Customer Satisfaction Campaign for “Jeep Death Wobble” Problem July 5th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a letter to the Chairman and CEO of Chrysler Group, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, and Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, urged the automaker to undertake an outreach campaign to alert both Jeep owners and employees of the “Jeep Death Wobble” and suggest methods to repair and prevent the problem. “We believe Chrysler should undertake an outreach campaign to its customers, such as a Customer Satisfaction Campaign, to notify Jeep owners of the risk of the ‘wobble’ condition…and the possible methods for repairing and preventing the problem,” Reps. Eshoo and Waxman wrote. “The anecdotal evidence from our constituents indicates that many Jeep owners have not received consistent guidance from Chrysler representatives about how to approach this problem, even when owners report a relatively consistent set of symptoms,” they continued. The letter also recommends that Chrysler make its Technical Service Bulletins, which advise dealers how to diagnose issues and make repairs, publically available. This step will help Jeep customers understand the causes, diagnostics, and solutions for the wobble. Background: Reps. Eshoo and Waxman first began inquiring about the Jeep Death Wobble after consumer reports of uncontrollable shaking, or “wobble,” in the front suspension of some late model Jeep Wranglers. On March 19, 2012, the two lawmakers wrote to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) to inquire about the problem and determine whether the Administration believes it poses a safety risk. NHTSA’s response indicated that it did not meet the threshold for mandatory safety action, and the lawmakers have instead encouraged Chrysler to take voluntary action to mitigate the issue and better inform owners. 7.3.12_Eshoo_Waxman_Letter_to_Chrysler.pdf ###
07.01.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on New Silicon Valley Patent Office July 1st, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA–Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement on Silicon Valley being named as the location of a new U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO): “The U.S. Department of Commerce has made a wise decision to locate a U.S. Patent and Trademark satellite office in Silicon Valley, the innovation capital of our country. With Stanford and other top research universities, a highly skilled workforce, and a sizable share of the nation’s patents, it’s critical to have a patent office in Silicon Valley.” Rep. Eshoo has led the effort to bring a patent office to Silicon Valley. Last year, Rep. Eshoo wrote a letter to President Obama urging the Administration to choose Silicon Valley as one of the USPTO’s new satellite locations. The letter was signed by Leader Pelosi, Rep. Lofgren and seven other Members of the Bay Area delegation. ###
06.28.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Supreme Court Upholding Health Care Law June 28th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act’s individual mandate under Congress’s taxing power: “Today is an historic victory for the American people. Decent, quality healthcare for all Americans has been a goal our country has had since President Truman. The Supreme Court has upheld the law and the nation has won. Our system works.” ###
06.27.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Court Upholding EPA Authority to Regulate Greenhouse Gas Emissions June 27th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions because they are a danger to public health and welfare. The court also upheld the EPA’s auto efficiency standards. “The ruling is a victory for science and good news for the health of the American people,” Eshoo said. The ruling came three years to the day since the House passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would have established a nationwide cap-and-trade system for limiting greenhouse gas emissions. The bill contained several provisions championed by Rep. Eshoo to spur the deployment of and develop the infrastructure for electric drive vehicles, help drive the adoption of energy efficient information and communications technologies in the federal government, incentivize renewable energy projects such as solar projects, and create a National Clean Technology Business Competition to help accelerate the growth of clean technology companies in America. ###
06.25.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Supreme Court Ruling to Permit Unlimited Campaign Funds June 25th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today after the U.S. Supreme Court overruled a Montana Supreme Court campaign finance decision challenging the Citizens United ruling: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling in the case of American Tradition Partnership v. Bullock is deeply disappointing. The Court had the opportunity to address their disastrous Citizens United decision, which has opened the floodgates to secret donors and unlimited money. Instead, they stuck with their flawed logic of two years ago. I will redouble my efforts for disclosure, and the entire Congress should as well.” ###
06.25.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails Funding for Health Innovation Project June 25th, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today hailed the U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) Department decision to award MedExpert International, a health care innovation firm based in Silicon Valley, $9.3 million in funding for the Quality Medical Management System (QMMS)—the company’s consumer health project. QMMS provides consumers with educational materials, physician advice, and assistance with interpreting health benefits and treatment options. The project is estimated to save consumers and the health care industry an estimated $50 million over the next three years. “I’m thrilled that MedExpert International has been awarded funding for this project,” Eshoo said. “Through QMMS, patients in the 14th Congressional District and nationwide will receive better guidance when it comes to getting care. Developing innovative ways to ensure patients are making the best decisions they can when it comes to their health is not only cost effective, but the right thing to do.” How Patients Benefit from QMMS: MedExpert engages patients, either by their regular proactive outreach or when a patient calls their toll-free number with a medical question. Patients are connected to an on-staff physician who can answer medical questions and guide the patient through all of their medical options. This is done by accessing the most current, accurate, and unbiased medical research available from peer-reviewed sources. Patients can then use this information, in consultation with their healthcare provider, to make the most informed choices about their care. QMMS will be available on a national scale to serve approximately 160,000 Medicare, Medicaid, and CHIP beneficiaries. The goal is to improve quality of care, reduce costs, increase transparency, achieve high utilization and satisfaction, and demonstrate model viability. Over a three-year period, MedExpert International will train and hire approximately 21 health care workers, including medical information coordinators, a medical information coordinator supervisor, a project manager, a senior executive manager, information technology and data engineers, senior engineers, and physicians. The funding is part of a second round of CMS (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) innovation grants awarded to health care projects nationwide. Rep. Eshoo announced the first round of CMS funding for Ravenswood Family Health Center in May. ###
06.22.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on 40th Anniversary of Title IX June 22nd, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today in recognition of the 40th anniversary of the passage of Title IX, landmark legislation that prohibited sex discrimination in education, athletics and other opportunities: “Title IX literally changed the playing field and created opportunities for women in areas where they faced considerable barriers to access and involvement. In the 40 years since its passage, extraordinary progress has been made in athletics and education. There is still much to be done in the advancement of women in technical fields, such as computer science and engineering, which has been limited or stalled altogether. “Today, America is stronger because of the doors that were pried open by Title IX, and it will always stand as a major victory. America’s promise will be realized when all girls and women enjoy equity in every field.” ###
06.20.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Committee Decision to Preserve Public File Rules June 20th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement after the House Appropriations Committee removed language yesterday in the Financial Services Appropriations bill that would have blocked implementation of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) rule to place the “public files” of broadcasters online. The original language was replaced with a new provision requiring a GAO study of the FCC rule. Under longstanding law, all local broadcast stations must maintain a public file for inspection which contains information related to a station’s programming, staffing, and spending on political ads. Up until the FCC rulemaking, local broadcast stations were only required to keep these files in paper form. “I applaud the Committee’s decision to revisit this issue and study the merits of the FCC’s commonsense transparency rule rather than shortchanging the American people by not allowing them access to public information online,” Eshoo said. “The original language of Committee Republicans blocked the FCC’s plan to bring this already-public information online and into the 21st century. The public file plays a critical role in promoting transparency both in elections and in the use of public airwaves. Making the public file more accessible to the public by putting it online is the right thing to do.” Specifically, the GAO study will include analysis of the information maintained by the FCC compared to that of the Federal Election Commission to determine if there is duplication of costs incurred by the federal government for maintaining the different systems. Also in the study will be an analysis of the impact of requiring broadcaster pricing information and the impact on the operational costs of broadcasters. The findings of the study are to be reported no later than July 2013. In April, Rep. Eshoo called for the FCC to make broadcasters’ political advertising files more accessible to the public by posting them on the Internet. A copy of her letter can be found here. ###
06.15.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails President’s Immigration Announcement June 15th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) applauded the announcement by President Obama today that people under 30 who arrived in the U.S. as children can receive deferred action on deportation for two years, subject to renewal, and legal eligibility to work. “This announcement marks a landmark change in immigration policy. It provides a ray of hope for those who were brought to the United States as very young children through no choice of their own and built lives in our communities. The only country they know is America. They pledge allegiance to the flag in school every day. They have grown up in our communities, and they love this country,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This important policy change reflects the best of America. As a strong supporter of the DREAM Act and keeping families together, I’ll continue to work in Congress to codify and expand these changes, ensuring they endure through future Administrations.” Background The policy change involves the use of “prosecutorial discretion” to defer deportation orders for “DREAM-eligible” young people who arrived here before age 16, have lived here for five years or more, have pursued education or service in the military, and are currently under age 30. People granted deferred action can apply for work authorization. Only individuals who can prove they meet these criteria will be eligible for deferred action. Individuals will not be eligible if they are not currently in the U.S. Deferred action requests are decided on a case-by-case basis. The use of prosecutorial discretion does not change immigration status or provide a pathway to citizenship; only Congress can confer these rights through legislation. Click here to read Secretary Napolitano’s complete order detailing the policy change to immigration enforcement agencies. # # #
06.14.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Welcomes $2.6 Million Grant for San Mateo June 14th, 2012 PALO ALTO, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) released the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Labor awarded San Mateo County a $2.6 million grant from the Workforce Innovation Fund. The Fund was created to help cultivate innovative approaches to training and best practices in the workplace. San Mateo’s grant will be used to implement policies which develop an integrated and innovative workforce reflecting the diversity of job seekers and employers, and the unique spirit of entrepreneurship that characterizes the local community. “I’m thrilled for San Mateo County and its workforce for this great opportunity,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Developing innovative job training programs and evidence-based best practices in our community will strengthen job skills and help put Americans back to work.” Twenty-six grants totaling nearly $150 million were made by the U.S. Department of Labor to a combination of state workforce agencies and local workforce investment boards, including San Mateo County. The original solicitation for grant applications announced funding of $98 million to be awarded. Because of the tremendous response, the quality of applications received, and the immediate need for additional resources in the system, the Department elected to fund additional awardees in the amount of $49 million with fiscal years 2011 and 2012 funds. The Labor Department also announced the availability of up to $20 million in the second round of funding to pilot the Pay for Success model. This model represents a new way of financing workforce investment projects where the government only pays for services that achieve measurable results, shifting the risk of investment from the government to the private sector. For more information on the Pay for Success solicitation, visit http://www.doleta.gov/grants/find_grants.cfm To learn more about the Workforce Innovation Fund, visit http://www.doleta.gov/workforce_innovation/ # # #
06.13.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Hails Administration Effort to Promote Cost-Saving Broadband Development Plan June 13th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after the White House announced an Executive Order implementing a “dig once” policy similar to her Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2011 (H.R. 1695) introduced last year: “Broadband networks are critical to our country’s economic success by facilitating job creation, new business growth, and connectivity to important Internet services, such as online classrooms, health IT, and smart grid technology. Much like my ‘dig once’ proposal, this Executive Order will help bring broadband to underserved communities nationwide and with limited federal investment. This is a commonsense idea, and I salute the Administration for taking action.” The Executive Order includes a requirement for the Department of Transportation (DOT) to provide guidance to states and encourage their implementation of a “dig once” policy. Adoption of the policy by the DOT would encourage the inclusion of “broadband conduit”—plastic pipes, which house fiber-optic communications cable—during the construction of federal highways. The Federal Highway Administration estimates it is ten times more expensive to dig up and then repair an existing road to lay fiber, than to dig a channel for it when the road is being built or repaired. In addition to her legislation, Rep Eshoo has pressed on other fronts to see adoption of a “dig once” policy. Last year she requested the Government Accountability Office (GAO) further consider the benefits of a dig once program, including specific costs, the extent to which carriers avail themselves to these facilities, and the extent to which this policy would divert funds from highway construction. The results of this GAO study are expected in the coming weeks. And in a letter to DOT Secretary Ray LaHood last December, Rep. Eshoo urged him to administratively implement a “dig once” policy, similar to her bill. ###
05.30.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo’s Prescription Drug Bill for Kids Approved by House May 30th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after the House voted in favor of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, which includes Eshoo’s reauthorization of the Best Pharmaceutical for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). Eshoo’s bill, referred to as the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012, incents pharmaceutical companies to conduct more clinical trials to study the effects of medications on children, and encourages more pediatric labeling to ensure proper dosage. “I’m thrilled for the children of our country that the House of Representatives voted to approve the reauthorization of my BPCA and PREA legislation today,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This will help doctors prescribe the most effective treatment, protect children from harmful drug side effects, and give parents peace of mind when it comes to their children’s health. The bill provides children the same safeguards that adults already have—detailed prescription labeling for proper dosage, and the clinical testing to back it up.” The Prescription Drug User Fee Act passed the House with overwhelming support and will now be merged with the Senate version in conference. Background: Eshoo’s bill to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceutical for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) was recently voted out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee with unanimous support as part of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. Eshoo has championed these programs for nearly a decade and was the original sponsor of the legislation. Congress first recognized the need to ensure that drugs were being studied in children in 1997 when it passed Eshoo’s legislation, BPCA, a bill to incent the study of off-label uses in pediatric populations by offering companies an additional six months of patent life on their product. In 2003, Congress passed another one of Eshoo’s bills, PREA, to study on-label indications in children, when safe and appropriate. More information on the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012, including a summary, a list of supporters, Rep. Eshoo’s prepared remarks on the bill for the Committee markup, and additional letters of support, can be found here. ###
05.25.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Memorial Day Statement May 25th, 2012 Follows Visit to Afghanistan to Meet with Troops, Afghan President WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today in recognition of Memorial Day, observed on Monday, May 28th: “This Memorial Day we remember generations of Americans who have fought to keep our nation what it is today—a beacon of freedom and liberty to the world. Honoring those who defended our country cannot be confined to one day. We must honor our troops each and every day by fulfilling our promises to them, just as they fulfilled their promise to us and our nation. Their legacy is our freedom. “I spent Mother’s Day in Afghanistan to meet with our troops, especially the many mothers and grandmothers in the field. I was heartened to learn more about our efforts to bring them home as safely and quickly as possible. Their bravery and patriotism is a source of inspiration to me and a grateful nation.” Background: Rep. Eshoo recently joined a bipartisan Congressional delegation to meet with U.S. troops and their commanders in Afghanistan and Qatar, the first delegation to enter the country since President Barack Obama and President Hamid Karzai signed the historic Strategic Partnership Agreement. The two-day visit, which included visits to Helmand and Kandahar provinces, allowed Eshoo to meet with troops in the field and take part in important discussions with diplomatic and military officials, in addition to meeting with Afghan women leaders. In addition to Rep. Eshoo, the Members of the bipartisan delegation were: Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.)Congresswoman Jean Schmidt (R-Ohio)Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.)Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-Ala.) Photos from Rep. Eshoo’s visit can be found here. ###
05.16.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes Flawed Violence Against Women Act May 16th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after voting against a flawed House Republican bill (H.R. 4970) to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA): “Since 1994, the Violence Against Women Act has been an essential tool in protecting victims of domestic and sexual violence, and it has always been bipartisan,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The House Republican’s version of VAWA unwinds the long-standing commitment to lifesaving assistance for the most vulnerable victims. It eliminates confidentiality protections for immigrant victims, imposes broad and imprecise mandatory minimum sentences for violent offenders, lacks protections for LGBT victims, and limits resources for victims living in subsidized housing or on college campuses. In every case, this is unacceptable.” Background: Rep. Eshoo voted for a bipartisan VAWA in 1994 to improve criminal justice and community-based response for victims of abuse. That bill ultimately changed the landscape for those previously left to suffer in silence. VAWA programs have focused on numerous areas of critical domestic violence intervention: family violence prevention; health care system responses; housing opportunities for battered women and children; economic security for victims; protection of trafficked immigrants; and safety for Native American women. Eshoo cosponsors alternate legislation, H.R. 4271, which responsibly extends and strengthens VAWA programs. The legislation reflects input from more than 2,000 law enforcement, court, prosecution, legal services, and victim services professionals across the country. In addition to expanding protections for LGBT victims of domestic violence, it renews successful programs, consolidates 13 duplicative programs into four, and creates new accountability initiatives. Eshoo is also a cosponsor of H.R. 5331, the Violence Against Immigrant Women Act. This legislation improves access to existing protections for victims of human trafficking and abuse and enhances confidentiality protections for victims who come forward. It also establishes ongoing training for Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice, and State Department personnel who come into contact with immigrant domestic violence victims to ensure they know the full range of immigration relief petitions available to victims. More than 300 organizations oppose the House Republican bill, including such groups as the U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, National Network to End Domestic Violence, National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, Break the Cycle, Legal Momentum, Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights, National Organization for Women, Feminist Majority, YWCA USA, AAUW, Business and Professional Women’s Foundation, National Women’s Law Center, Planned Parenthood Federation of America, American Bar Association, NAACP, National Council of La Raza, Human Rights Campaign, United Church of Christ, United Methodist Church, Jewish Council for Public Affairs, and National Congress of American Indians. ###
05.16.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Welcomes Appeals Court Decision Backing Stronger Disclosure Rules May 16th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement regarding the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision to deny a motion to “stay” a lower court ruling in Van Hollen v. FEC. The decision closes a loophole in Federal Election Commission (FEC) rules that allowed certain independent campaign organizations to keep the names of donors private. “This is a significant victory in the fight to keep federal elections open and transparent,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Voters deserve to know who is funding political messages. This decision affirms the clear judgment of the American people: campaign ads must not be funded by secret donors.” Background In 2007, the FEC promulgated rules allowing groups independent of official campaigns to disclose only those donors who specifically earmarked their contributions for electioneering communications. In March of 2012, a federal district court found that Federal Election Commission rules did not adequately enact the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform law, known officially as the Bi-Partisan Campaign Reform Act (BCRA). The law requires donors of $1,000 or more for “electioneering communications,” or candidate-related ads aired just before a primary or general election, to be publicly disclosed. This week’s decision, by a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, refused a request from outside political groups to “stay” the lower court’s decision, affirming the original language in the McCain-Feingold law and ensuring public disclosure of donors in electioneering communications will be in effect for the election season. ###
05.16.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges FCC Action on Special Access Reform May 16th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—In a letter to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, led four Members of Congress in urging the Commission to reform the special access market. Special access is a term used to define the dedicated, high-capacity broadband lines owned by the three largest incumbent telephone companies. Small businesses, hospitals, universities and government agencies must lease these lines and depend on having access at affordable rates. The FCC has been reviewing special access for seven years and Eshoo is calling for a completion of its rulemaking to ensure rates are affordable and to promote a more competitive telecommunications marketplace. Congress has a responsibility to review the FCC’s on-going actions and ensure special access rates are fair and do not hinder the growth of the nation’s small businesses. “Reducing prices to a just and reasonable level will generate billions of dollars in cost-savings for companies across the country, increasing innovation and investment, enhancing rural broadband deployment, and improving wireless coverage,” said Eshoo in the letter. “We understand that the Commission is planning another round of data requests in the special access rulemaking. We urge you to analyze this data expeditiously and act decisively to reduce rates and reform anticompetitive contracts,” she continued. Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry Waxman (D-Calif.) and Reps. Edward Markey (D-Mass.), Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), Doris Matsui (D-Calif.) joined Rep. Eshoo on the letter. ### 5.15.12_Letter_to_Chairman_Genachowski.pdf
05.10.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Hails Plan to Keep Rural Post Offices Open May 10th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) announced a proposal to keep 13,167 post offices open nationwide, including rural post offices in San Mateo County and Santa Cruz County. The plan will prevent full closure of the post offices by reducing hours of business. Three post offices in Eshoo’s Congressional District—San Gregorio, Loma Mar, and Mount Hermon—will have two to four hours of reduced service per day. The USPS estimates that the plan will save $500 million a year once it is fully implemented in 2014. “I’m relieved for my rural constituents that the Postal Service has decided to keep these post offices open. Our rural post offices in San Gregorio, Loma Mar, and Mount Hermon are special places where locals congregate not only to receive and send mail, but obtain information about the community and their neighbors,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It would have been a real hardship for rural residents to have to drive many miles to get their mail. With this new plan, a smarter, more sensible approach to our postal system will be initiated—one that addresses recent budgetary constraints, while preserving service to the Americans who rely on mail delivery the most.” Background: Over the past several months, Rep. Eshoo has worked actively in the House to encourage smart, sensible, and fair reforms to the USPS and preserve rural offices. She recently wrote to U.S. Postal Regulatory Chairwoman Ruth Goldway urging her to reconsider the closing of rural post offices and instead prioritize a restructuring of the USPS’ benefit prefunding requirement, which costs the organization $5.6 billion annually. Eshoo is also a cosponsor of H.R. 1351, the United States Postal Service Pension Obligation Recalculation and Restoration Act, which returns to the USPS several years worth of overpayments to the Civil Service Retirement System and Federal Employee Retirement System. Eshoo worked closely with constituents in the rural areas of her Congressional District to keep their post offices open. She wrote to USPS San Francisco District Manager Rosemarie Fernandez urging her to reconsider closure of the Loma Mar and San Gregorio post offices and enclosed constituent letters of support for Fernandez to include in her final recommendation. Rep. Eshoo also urged her constituents to reach out directly to Fernandez to express their views. ###
05.10.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo Legislation Passes Major Committee May 10th, 2012 Moves One Step Closer to Becoming Law, Keeping Drugs Safer for Children WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo issued the following statement today after the House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously voted to send her legislation to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceutical for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to the House floor for consideration. Eshoo’s bill, referred to as the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012, would make prescription drugs significantly safer for children and was voted out of Committee as part of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. “I’m thrilled by the Committee’s vote today,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Doctors should not have to play a guessing game when it comes to prescribing medication to children. That’s why I’ve been working for more than a decade to make progress in pediatric drug labeling. Kids deserve access to the same safe medicines adults have, and today we’re one step closer to that goal.” Twenty-three nationwide medical associations support Eshoo’s legislation, including a number of Bay Area community stakeholders. “As pediatricians, our primary focus in the care of children has always been prevention. Unfortunately, we must accept the fact that children do get sick,” said Dr. Janet Chaikind, Pediatrics Medical Director for San Mateo Medical Center. “Children deserve medications and treatments specifically designed, studied, and safety tested for their unique needs. Both the BCPA and the PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012 support our ability to provide the best and safest treatment for children when medications are needed. This type of legislation is essential for the future health and safety of our children.” “We thank and wholeheartedly support Representatives Eshoo, Markey, and Rogers in their efforts to reauthorize this critical legislation,” said Christopher G. Dawes, President and CEO of Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital at Stanford. “The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act have played an extraordinary role in the health and safety of America’s children. On behalf of pediatric caregivers everywhere, we urge the continuance of these important laws.” “The March of Dimes applauds Representative Anna Eshoo for her long-time leadership in creating and now updating two essential laws that improve the safety of prescription drugs for all children,” said David K. Stevenson, MD, Principal Investigator, March of Dimes Prematurity Research Center at Stanford University. “The Best Pharmaceuticals for Children and Pediatric Research Equity Acts are fundamental to ensuring that all medications are tested properly before they are given to children. Parents of babies in the NICU and hospitalized children should have the peace of mind of knowing that the drugs being administered have been tested thoroughly to show that they are safe and being given in the best form and dosage. BPCA and PREA will help guarantee that the appropriate research is done on prescription drugs to ensure both safety and efficacy in pediatric care.” Background: Eshoo’s bill to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceutical for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) was voted out of the House Energy and Commerce Committee with overwhelming support as part of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act. The reauthorization of BPCA (Best Pharmaceutical for Children Act) and PREA (Pediatric Research Equity Act) requires and incents companies to conduct more pediatric clinical testing. Eshoo has championed these programs for nearly a decade and was the original sponsor of the legislation. Congress first recognized the need to ensure that drugs were being studied in children in 1997 when it passed Eshoo’s legislation, BPCA, a bill to incent the study of off-label uses in pediatric populations by offering companies an additional six months of patent life on their product. In 2003, Congress passed another one of Eshoo’s bills, PREA, to study on-label indications in children, when safe and appropriate. ### BPCA_PREA_One-pager.pdf Supporters_of_the_BPCA_and_PREA_Reauthorization_Act_of_2012.pdf 5.10.12_Prepared_Remarks_for_Full_Committee_Markup.pdf 3.28.12_Letter_of_Support_from_American_Academy_of_Pediatrics.pdf 4.5.12_Letter_of_Support_from_Medical_Associations.pdf
05.09.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Applauds $7.3 Million Award to Ravenswood Family Health Center May 9th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today hailed the decision of Ravenswood Family Health Center being awarded $7.3 million in funding from the U.S. Health and Human Services (HHS) Department for its Health Care Innovation Project. The project will assist 19,000 patients in southeast San Mateo County better manage chronic care conditions by helping them adhere to health care plans based on their unique needs. These efforts are expected to save more than $6 million over three years. Ravenswood Family Health Center serves predominantly underserved communities in East Palo Alto and East Menlo Park and has an excellent track record of improving health outcomes. Nearly 90 percent of Ravenswood patients live at or below the federal poverty level, 60 percent are uninsured, and almost 40 percent are children under the age of 15. “I’m thrilled that Ravenswood Family Health Center was awarded $7.3 million in funding for its Health Care Innovation Project,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Supporting and motivating patients to follow and adhere to evidence-based care plans is exactly what we need to do to improve health outcomes and lower costs. This project will do just that. The partnership with the Health Plan of San Mateo, San Mateo County Health System, and Nuestra Casa will also create important, health-industry jobs and help our community in innumerable ways. Bravo to all.” Background: The majority of patients who will be included in the Health Care Innovation Project have diabetes and other chronic conditions. The project will train care managers who will, in a responsive and culturally appropriate manner, support and motivate patients to follow and adhere to evidence-based care plans. These care managers will also provide assistance in overcoming barriers to obtaining services with estimated savings of over $6 million. Over the three-year period, the South County Community Health Center program will train an estimated 60 health care workers and create an estimated 28 new jobs. Out of 3,000 nationwide applicants, Ravenswood Family Health Center was one of 26 awardees chosen for their innovative solutions to the health care challenges facing their communities and their focus on creating a well-trained health care workforce that is equipped to meet the need for new jobs in a 21st century health system. The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects the health care and social assistance sector will gain the most jobs between now and 2020. The awards total $122.6 million. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services at HHS administers the awards through cooperative agreements over 3 years. ###
05.02.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Awarded Highest Civilian Honor by President of Armenia May 2nd, 2012 Receives Award at Annual Armenian Genocide Commemoration on Capitol Hill WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement after Ambassador Tatoul Markarian, Armenian Ambassador to the United States, announced that she has been awarded the Mkhitar Gosh Medal, the Armenian government’s highest civilian honor. Armenian President Serzh Sarkisian signed a Proclamation presenting Eshoo with the award for her significant contributions to the strengthening and development of Armenian-American relations, as well as international recognition of the Armenian Genocide. “I’m humbled by this honor and grateful to President Sarkisian and the people of Armenia for it,” Rep. Eshoo said. “As an Armenian American, this award is deeply meaningful to me, and it speaks to the unfinished work of the United States to once and for all recognize the atrocities committed against the Armenian people by the Ottoman Empire.” Background: As an Armenian and Assyrian American, Rep. Eshoo lost family members during the Armenian Genocide, and has worked since coming to Congress to achieve official recognition of the Armenian Genocide. The Mkhitar Gosh Medal is named for a 12th Century Armenian priest and scholar responsible for codifying and promulgating the Armenian legal system, which remained in effect throughout Greater Armenia for hundreds of years. Since the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, Rep. Eshoo has also led Congressional efforts to provide targeted assistance to Iraq’s dwindling population of religious minorities, including Assyrians, Armenians, Syriacs, Jews, and Yezidis. She is the founder and co-chair of the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus. ###
05.02.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights for Congressional Action to Keep Student Loan Interest Rates Affordable May 2nd, 2012 Joined by Foothill College Faculty & Students at Latino Heritage Event to Highlight Impact on Underserved Communities LOS ALTOS HILLS, CA—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) was joined today by Foothill College President Judy Miner and Latino Heritage Month Committee Chair Ashley Oropeza to discuss the financial barriers to college education. Eshoo urged students to add their support to legislation, the Stop the Rate Hike Act of 2012, to keep interest rates affordable on need-based student loans. Speaking at Foothill College, Rep. Eshoo highlighted the effects the impending rise in interest rates would have on thousands of students in California’s 14th Congressional district who presently have Stafford loans. “Today, nearly 3,000 students and their families in my district will be grappling with double the interest rate on their college loans within the next 60 days. That equates to an additional $1,000 of debt per year for every student borrower. That is, if Congress doesn’t act to renew reduced rates for need-based student loans,” Rep. Eshoo said. “So I’m fighting for legislation to keep college affordable. Our moral imperative to put higher education within reach for every American is at stake. At a time when the unemployment rate for those with a college degree is about half the national average, it’s never been more important.” Background: In 2007, Rep. Eshoo voted to pass the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRAA), which provided relief to students from high interest rates by lowering rates on need-based student loans over a four-year period. The law decreased the interest rate from 6.8 percent in the 2006-2007 academic year to 3.4 percent in the 2011-2012 academic year. Fifteen million students, including over ten thousand in Eshoo’s district, benefitted from these lower rates with less expensive monthly payments on their loans. However, the CCRAA’s provisions to provide relief to students will sunset on July 1st of this year. For the need-based student loans made to 7.4 million borrowers nationwide for the next academic year, interest rates are set to double to 6.8 percent. ###
04.26.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Calls Again for President to Issue Executive Order on Disclosure April 26th, 2012 Says Committee Vote Prohibiting President from Requiring Government Contractors to Disclose Campaign Contributions Is an Insult to Voters WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) led 39 of her House colleagues in a letter urging the President to issue an Executive Order that would require corporations and companies that have contracts with the federal government to disclose campaign contributions. Eshoo and other members expressed concern about reports that a major presidential “super PAC” has accepted large contributions from government contractors, an act long considered impermissible under “pay to play” laws. The letter to the President follows House Oversight and Government Reform Committee passage of H.R. 2008, a bill that would prohibit requiring political disclosure from any company doing business with a federal agency before, during or after contract performance. “When any government contractor makes a political expenditure, taxpayers should know about it,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This House bill represents the opposite of what voters are demanding—disclosure and transparency. Companies doing business with the federal government receive more than $500 billion in taxpayer money each year. With public money, comes public responsibility to be fully transparent. Instead, House Republicans are working to keep the lid on transparency and disclosure. Today’s Committee vote on H.R. 2008 is the latest example.” The letter Rep. Eshoo and her colleagues sent to the President can be found below. Background Rep. Eshoo has led the effort to secure an Executive Order requiring full political disclosure from all companies doing business with the federal government. She has offered four separate amendments to FY2012 appropriations bills on the House floor that would require this, all of which were blocked from consideration by Republicans. In July 2011, Rep. Eshoo led 62 House Democrats in writing to President Obama to request an Executive Order requiring such transparency. ### 4.26.12_Letter_to_President_on_Disclosure_Executive_Order.pdf
04.25.2012	+ SHARE Eshoo, Walden Appoint Members of Bipartisan Federal Spectrum Working Group April 25th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-CA) today launched a bipartisan Federal Spectrum Working Group to examine how the federal government can use the nation’s airwaves more efficiently. “Spectrum is the fundamental building block of the wireless ecosystem,” said Walden. “This precious and finite resource drives the technologies that are integral to our 21st century economy. As the largest single spectrum user, the federal government could save taxpayers money and provide its own agencies better technology tools while simultaneously making more frequencies available to meet America’s exploding demand for mobile broadband services. This working group will take a comprehensive, thoughtful, and responsible look at how to improve federal spectrum use as part of our ongoing effort to make the most efficient and effective use of the public’s airwaves.” “Spectrum is the key ingredient for faster, more ubiquitous wireless broadband, spurring unprecedented growth in new online applications and services,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need a comprehensive approach to spectrum policy, including an examination of how the federal government uses it. The working group will be tasked with examining ways in which we use spectrum and how we can use it more efficiently.” Representatives Brett Guthrie (R-KY) and Doris Matsui (D-CA) will co-chair the group. Rounding out the panel will be Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI), Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA), Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), Rep. John Barrow (D-GA), and Rep. Donna Christensen (D-VI). Subcommittee Chairman Walden and Ranking Member Eshoo will serve as ex-officio members. The working group will build on the momentum to improve commercial spectrum allocations through incentive auctions as well as the reforms to the Commercial Spectrum Enhancement Act made in the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012. ###
04.18.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Makes the Case for Safer Prescription Drugs for Kids April 18th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—At a House Health Subcommittee hearing today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) made the case for safer prescription drugs for kids. Rep. Eshoo has introduced a bipartisan bill to reauthorize two programs, the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) and the Best Pharmaceutical for Children Act (BPCA), which incents companies to conduct more pediatric clinical testing. Eshoo has championed these programs for nearly a decade and was the original sponsor of the legislation. Her reauthorization has been incorporated into the committee chairman’s latest draft of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA), which is expected to be voted out of committee in the coming weeks. “Children are not just small adults,” Rep. Eshoo said in her prepared remarks. “Their bodies react differently to medications, and their size can cause them to experience different side-effects. Without clinical data, children may be given the wrong dosage or may receive treatment that is ineffective for their age and size. The results can be dire—toxicity, drug resistance, longer illnesses, needless pain and suffering, and higher costs to the health care system.” ### 4.18.12_BPCA_PREA_Health_Subcommittee_Hearing_Remarks.pdf BPCA_PREA_One-pager.pdf
04.16.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Supports Proposed FCC Rule to Promote Transparency in Political Ad Buys April 16th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) expressed her support today for the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) proposed rulemaking to make broadcasters’ political advertising files more accessible to the public by posting them on the Internet. Currently, local television stations are only required to keep paper files with information about programming, staffing, and spending on political ads at their offices for inspection by the public. The text of the letter Rep. Eshoo sent to the FCC can be found below. ### 4.16.12_Public_Files_Letter_to_FCC.pdf
04.12.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Releases NHTSA Response to “Jeep Wobble” Inquiry April 12th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released today the National Highway Traffic Administration’s (NHTSA) response to her inquiry regarding reports of uncontrollable shaking, or “wobble,” in the front suspension of some late model Jeep Wranglers. “It’s a relief to know that there haven’t been any reports of severe injury or death due to ‘wobble’ to warrant further investigation, but anyone who has experienced it has clearly been frightened,” Rep. Eshoo said. “That’s why I’m asking the auto manufacturer to inform its customers about this potential problem and direct them to take immediate action if any vibrations occur. Anyone experiencing the problem needs to report it to NHTSA at safercar.gov. The agency’s ability to take action to correct safety problems in cars and trucks is only as good as the consumer data submitted.” 4.11.12_NHTSA_Reponse_to_Jeep_Wobble_Inquiry.pdf
04.10.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Markey Commend FCC Collaboration to Combat Cell Phone Theft April 10th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, and Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and former chairman of the Communications, Technology and the Internet Subcommittee, released the following statements in response to the new effort announced today by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), law enforcement agencies, and the major wireless companies to address the increasing problem of cell phone theft. A recent study by Norton indicated that one in three individuals experience cell phone loss or theft, and a Symantec study of 50 Android phones in major cities found that more than 95 percent of people who found missing phones tried to access sensitive personal information. Last month, Reps. Eshoo, Markey and Waxman sent letters to nineteen carriers, handset manufacturers, and operating system developers seeking information on how they address cell phone theft. “Today, theft of a cell phone means more than just having to buy a new one,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Consumers are relying on their mobile devices for far more than just making calls. A cell phone in the hands of a thief could expose sensitive financial information, confidential contacts, or even a consumer’s personal schedule. Imagine a criminal abducting a child because they had access to the exact time and place the parent is supposed to pick them up, or a fraudster racking up debt on stolen credit card information programmed into a mobile app. When a thief swipes a mobile device, it’s a major breach of personal privacy, a threat, and can wreak havoc. The FCC’s planned database takes a smart approach to mitigate theft of cell phones by utilizing the latest mobile technologies and partnering with wireless carriers.” “I commend the FCC for its leadership in coordinating this new effort to address the rising tide of mobile device theft,” said Rep. Markey. “I also commend the participating wireless companies for their good corporate citizenship and commitment to protect consumers, who are too often further victimized with the theft of sensitive information located on stolen cell phones. Consumers use their mobile devices to communicate and connect, but they also should be able to permanently disconnect devices to prevent them from being further compromised. I look forward to receiving the responses from the companies we queried and continuing to work with my colleagues on this important issue.” ###
04.10.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Markey, Rogers Introduce Legislation to Improve Pediatric Medications April 10th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, in their ongoing effort to continue improvements to the safety and effectiveness of medications for children, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) introduced H.R. 4274, legislation to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). This bipartisan reauthorization will make significant improvements to the laws, which encourage companies to appropriately study medications for children. “As the original champion for the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act, I’m proud that these laws have dramatically improved the number of drugs that have been studied and approved for children,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Government and private industry have worked together to fill an important void. Today, our legislation will provide greater transparency and accountability in the programs, while improving communication between FDA and companies. We’ve come a long way, and I look forward to a day when we know how all medicines will affect children.” Congress first recognized the need to ensure that drugs were being studied in children in 1997 when it passed the Better Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA), a bill to incentivize the study of off-label uses in pediatric populations by offering companies an additional six months of patent life on their product. In 2003, Congress passed the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to study on-label indications in children, when safe and appropriate. “What medications are good for the goose are not necessarily good for the gosling. Reauthorizing the laws that promote the study of pediatric drugs will ensure that children’s medical needs are not relegated to the kids table and that children receive equal attention in the development of medications,” said Rep. Markey. “These two successful laws have led to180 new drugs being studied in children, and more than 400 drug labels have been updated with critical pediatric information, leading to more information about pediatric drug safety, effectiveness, dosing and formulations,” said Rep. Rogers. “Drug manufacturers, physicians, patients, and the FDA all recognize that BPCA and PREA have worked incredibly well to increase the study of prescription drugs in children. Making both programs permanent provides a more certain regulatory environment for drug makers in pediatric drug research.” The reauthorization of the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act will: Provides the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the necessary enforcement tools to ensure that companies complete their required pediatric studies under PREA on time. Increases transparency of the status of pediatric clinical trials required under PREA. Ensures the timely submission of a company’s “Pediatric Study Plan”, a blueprint for how a company plans to study their drug in children. Ensures that neonatologists are involved in the process of reviewing and planning pediatric clinical trials. “BPCA and PREA have greatly improved pediatric labeling of HIV medications. This is especially important for children living with HIV, because under-dosing can lead to drug resistance, and overdosing can lead to toxicity,” said Dr. Laura Guay, Vice President of Research for the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF). “The bipartisan legislation introduced today strengthens these important laws to ensure that children are prioritized in the drug development process, and have access to life-saving medicines labeled especially for their unique health needs.” “We are pleased that Representatives Rogers, Eshoo and Markey have introduced legislation to reauthorize BPCA and PREA that will continue to incentivize the development of lifesaving therapies for children,” said Jim Greenwood, CEO of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO). “Together BPCA and PREA have been remarkably successful in generating pediatric drug information for physicians and parents, contributing to improved health outcomes for children. Making BPCA and PREA permanent will result in continued investment in pediatric research infrastructure and ensure that new drugs and biologics will be used safely and appropriately in pediatric patients.” “We applaud Representatives Mike Rogers, Anna G. Eshoo, and Edward J. Markey for their leadership in authoring the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012. This bipartisan legislation is critical because it both renews BPCA and PREA, two pediatric drug testing laws that have improved the health and well-being of millions of children, and it makes several important policy improvements called for by the Academy and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in its recent Safe and Effective Medicines for Children report,” said Robert W. Block, MD, FAAP, president, American Academy of Pediatrics. “Children are not just small adults. Drugs work differently in children than in adults and must be studied specifically for their use. Because of BPCA and PREA, 427 drug labels have been revised with important pediatric information. While there has been significant success, more progress is needed, and these laws must be reauthorized and strengthened by improving the timing and quality of pediatric research as well as ensuring that required studies are completed by their due date. Your legislation does just that.” “Permanent reauthorization of BPCA and PREA would provide biopharmaceutical companies with the certainty that they need in order to plan and conduct pediatric studies,” said John Castellani, PhRMA’s CEO. “Because these studies can take several years, it is important for companies to know that the pediatric-research programs will continue throughout the span of the trial. We thank Representative Rogers, Representative Eshoo and Representative Markey for their support for permanent reauthorization, which will provide a more-predictable regulatory path and will help to stimulate increased pediatric research.” ###
04.06.2012	+ SHARE President Signs Rep. Eshoo Bill Into Law April 6th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after President Obama signed H.R. 3606 into law. The Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act contains the provisions of H.R. 1070, the Small Company Capital Formation Act, which Rep. Eshoo was instrumental in creating. H.R. 1070 increases the SEC Regulation A offering limit from $5 million to $50 million to assist startup companies establish a better financial footing in their respective markets. “Regulation A has had a price cap of $5 million since 1992, with only seven companies taking advantage of it in 2010,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Raising the cap is essential to the needed capital formation for startup businesses to create jobs, strengthen our economy, and promote the high-tech, sustainable energy, and life science sectors. This law will help small businesses and startups do just that.” Background: The Securities Act of 1933 was enacted during the Great Depression and included Regulation A to facilitate capital formation for small businesses and to provide regulatory relief for small firms to sell shares of company stock. These “mini offerings” have been used to help small companies raise capital and test the water for future initial public offerings. In December 2010, Rep. Eshoo testified before the House Committee on Financial Services about the need to increase the offering limit under “Regulation A.” To read her testimony, please click here. Rep. Eshoo also led the Bay Area Congressional delegation in a February 2011 letter to President Obama and in a March 2011 letter to Chairwoman Mary Schapiro urging the Administration to exercise its authority under Section 28 of the Securities Act to raise the Regulation A offering limit. In November 2011, H.R 1070 passed the House as a stand-alone bill 421-1. ###
04.04.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Highlights 9-1-1 Education Month as Key Tool for Public Safety April 4th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today welcoming April as National 9-1-1 Education Month: “9-1-1 continues to be America’s best known number and our most often used public safety tool,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Our local 9-1-1 call centers are on the front lines making sure that emergency information is delivered quickly and accurately to first responders. So as advancements in technology usher in new tools that expand the way we call in emergencies, it’s important that people know how to utilize them. This month we can make it a point to raise public awareness, especially about Next Generation 9-1-1 technology that, in the coming years, will give local call centers the capability to receive text messages, photos, and video from people at the scene of an emergency. In life threatening situations, this enhanced information is vital to first responders.” Background The month of April was first recognized by the U.S. Congress in 2008 as National 9-1-1 Education Month, building on the efforts of the National 9-1-1 Education Coalition, an alliance of 8 national organizations dedicated to advancing public safety communications. The organizations joined together to advance 9-1-1 education across the country. In recognition of National 9-1-1 Education Month, the group is urging local events such as school outreach, street fairs featuring first responders and their equipment, and distribution of 9-1-1 educational materials throughout the month of April. In addition and through the efforts of Rep. Eshoo, the payroll tax extension signed into law in February 2012 provides $115 million in grants to state and local public safety entities to support implementation and operation of 9-1-1 services, including migration to Next Generation 9-1-1. This improved system will enable the delivery of text messages, pictures, and video to 9-1-1 call centers across the country. Last year, Reps. Eshoo and Shimkus introduced H.R. 2629, the Next Generation 9-1-1 Advancement Act of 2011, which would have accomplished the same goals. ###
03.28.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Markey, Rogers Introduce Legislation to Improve Pediatric Medications March 28th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, in their ongoing effort to continue improvements to the safety and effectiveness of medications for children, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), and Mike Rogers (R-Mich.) introduced H.R. 4274, legislation to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). This bipartisan reauthorization will make significant improvements to the laws, which encourage companies to appropriately study medications for children. “As the original champion for the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act, I’m proud that these laws have dramatically improved the number of drugs that have been studied and approved for children,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Government and private industry have worked together to fill an important void. Today, our legislation will provide greater transparency and accountability in the programs, while improving communication between FDA and companies. We’ve come a long way, and I look forward to a day when we know how all medicines will affect children.” Congress first recognized the need to ensure that drugs were being studied in children in 1997 when it passed the Better Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA), a bill to incentivize the study of off-label uses in pediatric populations by offering companies an additional six months of patent life on their product. In 2003, Congress passed the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA) to study on-label indications in children, when safe and appropriate. “What medications are good for the goose are not necessarily good for the gosling. Reauthorizing the laws that promote the study of pediatric drugs will ensure that children’s medical needs are not relegated to the kids table and that children receive equal attention in the development of medications,” said Rep. Markey. “These two successful laws have led to180 new drugs being studied in children, and more than 400 drug labels have been updated with critical pediatric information, leading to more information about pediatric drug safety, effectiveness, dosing and formulations,” said Rep. Rogers. “Drug manufacturers, physicians, patients, and the FDA all recognize that BPCA and PREA have worked incredibly well to increase the study of prescription drugs in children. Making both programs permanent provides a more certain regulatory environment for drug makers in pediatric drug research.” The reauthorization of the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and the Pediatric Research Equity Act will: Provides the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) the necessary enforcement tools to ensure that companies complete their required pediatric studies under PREA on time. Increases transparency of the status of pediatric clinical trials required under PREA. Ensures the timely submission of a company’s “Pediatric Study Plan”, a blueprint for how a company plans to study their drug in children. Ensures that neonatologists are involved in the process of reviewing and planning pediatric clinical trials. “BPCA and PREA have greatly improved pediatric labeling of HIV medications. This is especially important for children living with HIV, because under-dosing can lead to drug resistance, and overdosing can lead to toxicity,” said Dr. Laura Guay, Vice President of Research for the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation (EGPAF). “The bipartisan legislation introduced today strengthens these important laws to ensure that children are prioritized in the drug development process, and have access to life-saving medicines labeled especially for their unique health needs.” “We are pleased that Representatives Rogers, Eshoo and Markey have introduced legislation to reauthorize BPCA and PREA that will continue to incentivize the development of lifesaving therapies for children,” said Jim Greenwood, CEO of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO). “Together BPCA and PREA have been remarkably successful in generating pediatric drug information for physicians and parents, contributing to improved health outcomes for children. Making BPCA and PREA permanent will result in continued investment in pediatric research infrastructure and ensure that new drugs and biologics will be used safely and appropriately in pediatric patients.” “We applaud Representatives Mike Rogers, Anna G. Eshoo, and Edward J. Markey for their leadership in authoring the BPCA and PREA Reauthorization Act of 2012. This bipartisan legislation is critical because it both renews BPCA and PREA, two pediatric drug testing laws that have improved the health and well-being of millions of children, and it makes several important policy improvements called for by the Academy and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) in its recent Safe and Effective Medicines for Children report,” said Robert W. Block, MD, FAAP, president, American Academy of Pediatrics. “Children are not just small adults. Drugs work differently in children than in adults and must be studied specifically for their use. Because of BPCA and PREA, 427 drug labels have been revised with important pediatric information. While there has been significant success, more progress is needed, and these laws must be reauthorized and strengthened by improving the timing and quality of pediatric research as well as ensuring that required studies are completed by their due date. Your legislation does just that.” “Permanent reauthorization of BPCA and PREA would provide biopharmaceutical companies with the certainty that they need in order to plan and conduct pediatric studies,” said John Castellani, PhRMA’s CEO. “Because these studies can take several years, it is important for companies to know that the pediatric-research programs will continue throughout the span of the trial. We thank Representative Rogers, Representative Eshoo and Representative Markey for their support for permanent reauthorization, which will provide a more-predictable regulatory path and will help to stimulate increased pediatric research.” ###
03.28.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Cybersecurity: Threats to Communications Networks and Public-Sector Responses March 28th, 2012 Statement of Representative Anna G. Eshoo (as prepared)Subcommittee on Communications and TechnologyHouse Committee on Energy and Commerce“Cybersecurity: Threats to Communications Networks and Public-Sector Responses”2322 Rayburn House Office BuildingMarch 28, 2012 Mr. Chairman, thank you for convening this morning’s panel as part of our series of hearings on cybersecurity. Over the past month, I’ve served as co-chair of the Subcommittee’s Cyber Security Working Group with our colleague Lee Terry. Through this process, our staffs have gathered information from key stakeholders, focusing on issues such as supply chain integrity, information sharing, consumer education and our Subcommittee’s jurisdiction in these areas. We’ve learned that Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) pose a significant risk to our communications infrastructure. These sophisticated threats are often either state-sponsored or pursued by criminal enterprises, and have the potential to lead to significant theft or manipulation of data and other malicious activities. Fortunately, experts like our witnesses today, work diligently to protect our nation from cyber threats. I look forward to learning from each of you about what your agency or institution is doing in the area of cyber security, such as Sandia National Labs’ Adaptive Network Countermeasures (ANC) system, the DHS efforts concerning Domain Name Server Security Extension (DNSSEC), and the FCC’s recent cyber recommendations from its Communications Security, Reliability and Interoperability Council (CSRIC). At the same time, however, it appears that no single cyber security solution is a silver bullet. Therefore, to deter cyber criminals, we need to consider a well-coordinated, comprehensive effort that promotes research and development, consumer education, supply chain integrity and information sharing, yet ensures sufficient privacy and civil liberties protections. It’s also imperative that we don’t take any actions that would inadvertently hinder the private sector development of cybersecurity technology, or create new network vulnerabilities. I’m pleased to see that the public and private sectors are working together on cybersecurity issues. As I just noted, last week, the FCC’s CSRIC unanimously endorsed voluntary, industry wide best practices to address Botnets, Domain Name Fraud, and Internet Route Hijacking. I applaud our nation’s leading Internet Service Providers’ (ISPs) who have agreed to adopt these best practices, and I urge others to follow their lead. Today’s hearing is an opportunity to better understand the public sectors’ efforts in cybersecurity and how our Subcommittee can promote this work, whether by reducing specific statutory barriers or ensuring that communications networks are considered as part of any existing cybersecurity effort. Thank you to each of our witnesses and I look forward to your important testimony.
03.28.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo and Lofgren Applaud New NASA Ames Aeronautics Research Institute March 28th, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose) applauded the announcement that NASA will establish a National Aeronautics Research Institute (NARI) hosted by NASA Ames to promote aeronautic innovation with $10 million in annual seed funding for early-stage concepts. As a virtual institute, NARI will use web-based technologies to solicit research, facilitate public-private partnerships, and disseminate technical findings. “I’m very proud that Ames has been chosen to lead NASA’s new National Aeronautics Research Institute,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Once again, the vibrant work and strong leadership of Ames in the field of Aeronautics is being realized, and the innovative technologies that will flow from this Institute will strengthen our region and our country.” “Those of us who live and work in Silicon Valley fully appreciate how this center and its resources can be a powerful tool for springing a good idea from the drawing board into reality,” said Rep. Lofgren. “This new institute will help drive 21st century American aeronautics innovation to ease our crowded skies, help the environment, and boost safety.” NARI’s research will be aimed at reducing air traffic congestion, mitigating environmental impacts, improving safety, and fostering innovative aircraft design through cooperative academic and public-private aeronautic research partnerships. ###
03.27.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Offers Disclosure Amendment to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Reform Bill March 27th, 2012 Washington, D.C.— Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology and a Congressional leader on campaign finance reform, offered an amendment today to require broader disclosure from entities purchasing political advertisements through cable, satellite, or broadcast television or radio. “All Americans have a right to honest information about who has paid for the political messages they receive,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This includes the sponsors of political advertisements—not just the names of sham entities designed to evade disclosure. “Americans are besieged by anonymous campaign ads around the clock this year. With disclosure and transparency, the public will be able to decide for themselves, because relevant information about the interests and their impact will be public. Disclosure of an ad’s major donors does not place any undue burdens on speech or industry. It will empower the voters.” Rep. Eshoo offered her amendment to H.R. 3309, the FCC Process Reform Act, when the legislation came to the floor of the full House of Representatives. The amendment requires political advertisers to disclose contributors of $10,000 or more as a condition for purchasing ad time. The amendment failed by a vote of 179 to 238. She offered a similar amendment during markup of the legislation in the Energy and Commerce Committee on March 5th which was rejected 16-30, with every Republican voting no. ###
03.27.2012	+ SHARE House and Senate Pass Rep. Eshoo’s Small Business Capital Formation Bill March 27th, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted in support of H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act which passed the House by 380 to 41. H.R. 3606 contains the provisions of H.R. 1070, the Small Company Capital Formation Act, which increases the SEC Regulation A offering limit from $5 million to $50 million. “In December 2010, I testified before the House Financial Services Committee about the need to raise the Regulation A offering limit to help small companies capture more capital in the early stages of business formation,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Small businesses and startups, especially in the high-tech, sustainable energy, and life science fields are ready and able to create jobs, but the current Regulation A limit is no longer relevant in terms of its cap of $5 million.” The Regulation A threshold has been stuck at $5 million since 1992. At such a low level, the benefit of a Regulation A offering is extremely limited. In fact, only seven companies took advantage of it in 2010. “I’m very proud we’re finally sending a bill to the President for his signature that increases the Regulation A offering limit, expanding the opportunity for capital formation,” said Rep. Eshoo. “What better time than now, when small businesses can use this important boost.” Background: Regulation A was enacted during the Great Depression to facilitate the flow of capital to small business and provide regulatory relief for small firms that want to sell shares of company stock. These “mini offerings” have been used to help small companies raise capital and test the water for future initial public offerings. In December 2010, Rep. Eshoo testified before the House Committee on Financial Services about the need to increase the offering limit under “Regulation A.” To read her testimony, please click here. Rep. Eshoo also led the Bay Area Congressional delegation in a February 2011 letter to President Obama , and March 2011 letter to Chairwoman Mary Schapiro urging the Administration to exercise its authority under Section 28 of the Securities Act to raise the Regulation A offering limit. President Barack Obama included this legislation in his bipartisan American Jobs Act and said in his joint session to Congress addressing jobs that, “We needed to cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public.” In November 2011, H.R 1070 passed the House as a stand-alone bill 421-1. ###
03.23.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Waxman, and Markey Launch Inquiry Into Efforts to Combat Cell Phone Theft March 23rd, 2012 WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo, Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman, and senior Committee Member Edward J. Markey sent letters to nineteen carriers, handset manufacturers, and operating system developers seeking information on how they address cell phone theft. According to numerous public safety officials, many local law enforcement officials are reporting a significant increase in crime, much of it connected to the theft of electronic devices. These incidents raise important questions about what role wireless providers, operating system developers, and handset manufacturers might play to combat cell phone theft and protect personal information stored on these devices. In the letter, the members write: “we are writing to learn what policies your company uses to protect consumers. Even simple steps, like remote locking of stolen devices, could make a big difference in deterring theft.” A recent study by Norton indicated that one in three individuals experience cell phone loss or theft, and a Symantec study of 50 Android phones in major cities found that more than 95% of people who found missing phones tried to access sensitive personal information. The letters and the complete list of companies are available here. ###
03.22.2012	+ SHARE Report Details Benefits of Health Reform for California’s 14th Congressional District March 22nd, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced that a new analysis shows that hundreds of thousands of people in her District are already benefiting from the Affordable Care Act. “It’s only been two years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, and millions of Americans are already seeing lower costs and better coverage,” Rep. Eshoo stated. “This includes hundreds of thousands of people in California’s 14th Congressional District.” A new analysis prepared by the Minority staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee provides estimates by congressional district of the number of people benefiting from the new law. Benefits of the Health Care Reform Law (CA14). “Young people are now able to be covered through their parents’ insurance policy, up to the age of 26; children with pre-existing conditions are no longer discriminated against by insurers; and senior citizens have secured significant savings on prescription drugs under Medicare. These are meaningful improvements in people’s lives.” The analysis details the new benefits already taking place in CA-14: 4,800 young adults up to the age of 26 are now covered by their parents’ insurance policy. Up to 36,000 children with preexisting health conditions can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers. 35,000 children and 140,000 adults now have health insurance that covers preventive services without any co-pays, coinsurance, or deductibles. 280,000 are free from insurance-imposed lifetime limits on their coverage. 520 small businesses received tax credits to help maintain or expand healthcare coverage for their employees. 7,500 seniors received prescription drug discounts worth $4.5 million, an average discount of $600 per senior. 56,000 seniors received Medicare preventive services without any out-of-pocket costs, coinsurance, or deductibles. The Affordable Care Act will continue to be implemented through 2014. The Act ensures that all individuals will have a choice of high-quality, affordable coverage. Very importantly, the Act reduces the federal deficit by more than $100 billion over the next decade, and by more than $1 trillion in the decade after that, according to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. ###
03.22.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Modernizing Caltrain March 22nd, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), released the following statement about the regional agreement to electrify Caltrain: “Modernizing Caltrain has and will continue to be one of my highest priorities for our region. It is the spine of our transportation system and it must be brought into the 21st century. Now the regional agreement to fully fund the electrification of Caltrain and positive train control will make this a reality. An electrified Caltrain will be more efficient, increase revenue, and reduce costs. It will also connect to other rail segments throughout the state to reduce pollution and traffic, improve the movement of goods, and provide more options for the traveling public and businesses. “ ###
03.20.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces 2012 Congressional Art Competition March 20th, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) invites high school students to participate in the 2012 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Every spring Rep. Eshoo launches a district-wide art competition to young high school students from throughout the 14th Congressional District, encouraging them to participate by submitting their original work to the District Office at 698 Emerson Street, Palo Alto by Friday, April 6, 2011, before 5:30 p.m. The student whose work is chosen by a panel of local artists will have his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of our nation’s Capitol, on view for the many thousands of visitors. The first place winner will receive two roundtrip tickets to Washington, D.C. from Southwest Airlines and will join students from across the country to be honored at a reception in mid-June. First place winners will be given the opportunity to enroll at Savannah College of Arts and Design and may be eligible to receive an artistic scholarship of at least $3000, if they meet or exceed admission requirements. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nation-wide competition. For more information on Congressional Art Competition guidelines, please visit www.eshoo.house.gov, or call (650) 323-2984, (408) 245-2339 or (831) 335-2020. ###
03.09.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises Electric Vehicle Deployment Announcement March 9th, 2012 Washington, D.C. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) – This week, President Obama announced a “National Community Deployment Challenge” to spur deployment of clean, advanced vehicles in communities around the country. The electric vehicle deployment components of this plan are similar to legislation Rep. Eshoo has introduced in the 111th and 112th Congress. “I’m very pleased that the President has integrated my electric vehicle deployment legislation into his ‘all of the above’ approach to address rising gas prices,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The U.S. can address its dependence on oil and become a global leader of technology to electrify the transportation sector if we develop innovative technologies. Electric vehicles do this. I hear from hundreds of individuals, entrepreneurs, and companies that are ready to work on next generation technologies and solutions for a clean energy future.” In the 111th Congress, Rep. Eshoo introduced, H.R. 1742, the Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Act, to promote the deployment and integration of electric vehicles across the country. This bill passed the House as part of H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act. On May 3, 2011, Rep. Eshoo also partnered with Reps. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Judy Biggert (R-Ill.), and Jerry McNerney (D-Calif.), to introduce H.R.1685, the Electric Drive Vehicle Deployment Act. Companion legislation was introduced by Senators Merkley (D-Ore.), and Alexander (R-Tenn.). President Obama’s plan calls for a new $1 billion National Community Deployment Challenge to spur deployment of clean, advanced vehicles in communities around the country. It would also improve the current advanced vehicle tax credit by expanding eligibility for the credit to a broader range of vehicle technologies, increasing the amount from $7,500, up to $10,000. ###
03.08.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Hails Bill to Capitalize Startups March 8th, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted to pass H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. Within this broader bill, is H.R. 1070, the Small Company Capital Formation Act, which increases the SEC Regulation A offering limit from $5 million to $50 million. “I’m proud to have brought the Regulation A offering limit issue to the House Financial Services Committee when I gave testimony in December, 2010. Increasing the Regulation A limit will help small companies capture more capital in the early stages of business formation and bolster American innovation.” Said Rep. Eshoo. “Small businesses play a critical role in job creation, but they need the tools to do what they do best.” The Regulation A threshold has been stuck at $5 million since 1992. At such a low level, the benefit of a Regulation A offering is extremely limited. In fact, only seven companies took advantage of it in 2010. “We need to act today, to provide small businesses and startups, especially those in the high-tech, sustainable energy, and life science fields, where startup costs routinely exceed $5 million, with more access to capital.” said Rep. Eshoo. “I’m hopeful that the bipartisan Regulation A provision will be signed into law this year.” Background: Regulation A was enacted during the Great Depression to facilitate the flow of capital to small business and provide regulatory relief for small firms that want to sell shares of company stock. These “mini offerings” have been used to help small companies raise capital and test the water for future initial public offerings. In December 2010, Rep. Eshoo testified before the House Committee on Financial Services about the need to increase the offering limit under “Regulation A.” To read her testimony, please click here. Rep. Eshoo also led the Bay Area Congressional delegation in a February 2011 letter to President Obama , and March 2011 letter to Chairwoman Mary Schapiro urging the Administration to exercise its authority under Section 28 of the Securities Act to raise the Regulation A offering limit. President Barack Obama included this legislation in his bipartisan American Jobs Act and said in his joint session to Congress addressing jobs that, “We needed to cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public.” In November 2011, H.R 1070 passed the House as a stand-alone bill 421-1. The JOBS Act passed the House 390 to 23. ###
03.07.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Offers Disclosure Amendment to FCC Reform Bill March 7th, 2012 Washington, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology and a Congressional leader on campaign finance reform, offered an amendment today to require broader disclosure from entities purchasing political advertisements through radio, broadcast television, cable and satellite. “All Americans have a right to honest information about who has paid for the political messages they receive,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This includes the sponsors of political advertisements—not just the names of sham entities designed to evade disclosure. Americans are besieged by anonymous campaign ads around the clock this year. With disclosure and transparency, the public will be able to decide for themselves because all relevant information about the interests and their impact will be public. Disclosure of an ad’s major donors does not place any undue burdens on speech or industry. It will empower the voters.” Rep. Eshoo offered her amendment to H.R. 3309, the FCC Process Reform Act, during markup of the legislation in the full Energy and Commerce Committee. The amendment requires political advertisers to disclose contributors of $10,000 or more as a condition for purchasing ad time. The amendment failed by a vote of 16 to 30, with every Republican voting no. ### The full debate on the amendment is available here.
03.01.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Decries Passage of Atrocious Water Bill March 1st, 2012 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 1837, the San Joaquin Valley Water Reliability Act, which sets an unprecedented standard of state preemption, environmental disregard, and the privatization of a public resource for the benefit of a select few. “H.R. 1837 would undo years of negotiations reached by the state of California, local ranchers, farmers and other users of water from the San Joaquin River. This bill repeals existing law and will set up a new round of water wars, which will create more employment for lawyers, but not fishermen or farmers.” Specifically, H.R. 1837 would: Preempt California Water Laws Protecting Rivers and the Bay-Delta Estuary by blocking implementation of a bipartisan package of water policy reform bills adopted in 2009 by the State of California that required the establishment of a comprehensive Delta Plan to improve the state’s water reliability as well as restore the Bay-Delta estuary. Block the Court-Approved 2009 Settlement to Restore the San Joaquin River, which is a bipartisan settlement that ended nearly twenty years of litigation over the San Joaquin River. Create Job Losses. In 2008 and 2009, California’s salmon fisheries were closed for the first time in the state’s history, resulting in thousands of lost jobs in California and Oregon, and hundreds of millions of dollars in lost income each year. If H.R. 1837 becomes law, that number and more jobs would be permanently lost. Harm Endangered Species by deeming that all Endangered Species Act requirements in the Central Valley Project would be met through the through the 1994 Bay Delta Accord. This ignores the last fifteen years of best available science demonstrating the negative effects on species. “H.R 1837 is opposed by local governments, business groups, recreational and commercial fishing advocates, environmental organization, the California Attorney General, U.S Secretary of Interior Salazar and the nonpartisan Western States Water Council,” said Rep. Eshoo. Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Thompson offered an amendment on the floor of the House to nullify the bill if it causes any job losses in fishing-related or agricultural industries but it was defeated on largely party lines. H.R. 1837 passed the House 246-175 and now goes to the Senate where it will be met with strong resistance from Senators Boxer and Feinstein. President Obama has also vowed to veto the bill if Congress were to pass it. ###
02.16.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Applauds Agreement to Create a Nationwide, Interoperable Public Safety Broadband Network and Spur Wireless Innovation February 16th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee announced that the payroll tax relief conference committee reached agreement on landmark bipartisan legislation to ease the nation’s growing spectrum shortage, create a nationwide, interoperable broadband network for public safety officials, and raise $15 billion. The legislation agreed to by the conferees is based on two existing pieces of legislation: H.R. 3630, the spectrum provisions passed by the House, and S. 911, bipartisan legislation approved by the Senate Commerce Committee. The conference report incorporates most of the auction-related provisions included in the House legislation, with changes regarding unlicensed spectrum and FCC auction rules. The public safety provisions are based on the national model outlined in S. 911, with changes to ensure flexibility for states. “In crafting spectrum legislation, my goals were to promote the public interest, encourage competition and ensure a return on investment for the taxpayer by advocating for unlicensed spectrum; a nationwide, interoperable public safety broadband network; and provisions to ensure our nation’s 9-1-1 call centers have the modern tools needed to improve the quality and speed of emergency response,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The agreement Congress has reached on legislation that delivers a 21st century spectrum policy is a win for all Americans. Incentive auctions will ensure that we have the world’s leading wireless infrastructure, and the future for unlicensed innovation in the TV band is bright.” “Furthermore, the public safety community will have the tools to finally build out a critical nationwide, interoperable broadband network, and the inclusion of provisions to promote and fund Next Generation 9-1-1 will provide enhanced information for first responders through text, photos, and videos.” “I look forward to working with the FCC to ensure that these provisions are implemented in a timely manner so the American people will benefit sooner, rather than later, the fruits of this important effort.” A summary of the legislation is available online here. ###
02.09.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Helps Introduce Campaign Disclosure Legislation February 9th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a Congressional leader on campaign finance reform, joined colleagues in reintroducing the DISCLOSE Act, to increase transparency and disclosure in political campaigns. In response to the 2010 Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision, Rep. Eshoo worked to pass a similar bill in the House, though it failed in the Senate. Eshoo is a lead co-sponsor of a restructured DISCLOSE Act aimed at directly addressing the rise of “Super PACs” and other secretive political organizations. “Disclosure remains the best medicine to cure the ills of the Citizens United decision of two years ago which threw away decades of legal precedent, allowing rich donors and corporations to take over our campaign finance system,” said Rep. Eshoo. “It’s time to fight back. The DISCLOSE Act is a critical step to broadly increase transparency and disclosure.” The new DISCLOSE Act has been simplified from its previous version. It would require timely disclosure by Super PACs and 501(c)(4) organizations that influence voters through political advertisements. It would also require lobbyists, corporations and unions to disclose their contributions to these organizations, and require Super PACs to reveal their top five donors in each advertisement. It would also finally require the heads of these organizations to appear at the end of the ad to approve the message, similar to ads run by candidates themselves. Rep. Eshoo continued: “Corporations are not people and should not be treated like them. This legislation will correct this wrong-headed view.” Rep. Eshoo has been a leader on campaign finance reform in the House. In February 2011, Eshoo offered an amendment to H.R. 1 that mirrors the President’s Draft Executive Order which became public in April. On July 28, 2011, Rep. Eshoo sent a letter to President Obama, signed by 62 Members of Congress, urging him to finalize his Draft Executive Order on Contractors. In reaction to Rep. Eshoo’s proposal and the President’s Draft Executive Order, Republicans attached four riders to appropriations bills to prohibit any disclosure requirements whatsoever. Each time, Eshoo led the opposition to the riders, and offered her own amendment to require campaign disclosure. Each time, Republicans blocked the amendment from even being voted on. In December 2011, Eshoo secured language in the $900 billion “omnibus” spending bill that removed riders attached to previous bills that specifically prohibited any disclosure for government contractors. This compromise language allows President Obama to move forward with disclosure requirements for contract recipients.
02.09.2012	+ SHARE Over 40 Bipartisan Members Call on Conference Committee to Protect Unlicensed Airwaves for Innovators and Entrepreneurs February 9th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, a bipartisan group of 42 Members of Congress, led by Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Darrell Issa (R–CA), released a letter to Conferees on the Payroll Tax Cut Conference Committee urging them to protect public access to unlicensed spectrum. As Congress considers legislation to make more spectrum available for wireless broadband, it’s essential that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has the flexibility to make some of the prime “beachfront” spectrum located in the television band available for new and innovative unlicensed services. It’s estimated that unlicensed spectrum generates between $16-37 billion each year for the U.S. economy. As a result, it’s absolutely essential that the U.S. not close the door on this exciting area of innovation which can help enhance rural broadband coverage, reduce energy costs and pave the way for new technologies that have yet to be invented. In the letter, the Members state that smart spectrum policy “must recognize that both licensed and unlicensed spectrum in the television band maximizes the economic benefits of wireless broadband. With a balanced approach to spectrum policy, we can unlock billions of dollars in private investment, new innovations, job creation, and economic growth.” Rep. Eshoo serves as the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Rep. Issa serves as the Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The letter , signed by 42 Members, is below: February 9, 2012 Dear Chairman Camp and Chairman Baucus: We are writing regarding the possible inclusion of spectrum policy in the extension of the payroll tax legislation. Smart spectrum policy will drive the next generation of wireless broadband, creating new economic opportunities for the telecommunications and technology ecosystem. These provisions will have a dramatic impact on our nation’s wireless future and benefit many stakeholders, including public safety, small businesses, educators, and consumers. While there are many important spectrum policy goals, today we’re writing to urge you to preserve the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) flexibility to use some of the “beachfront” spectrum recovered from voluntary incentive auctions for unlicensed use. Some of the most significant innovations in wireless communications, such as Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, were born in spectrum bands with no exclusive license. Collectively, unlicensed devices help generate an estimated $16-37 billion per year for the U.S. economy. Even our nation’s largest wireless service providers use unlicensed spectrum to reduce congestion on their network, with experts suggesting that more than one-third of their data traffic today is off-loaded onto Wi-Fi networks. Exploring the use of beachfront spectrum, specifically in the television band, is vital given its ability to penetrate buildings, enhance rural coverage, and carry more data traffic than traditional Wi-Fi. Yet today, within the frequencies best suited for mobile broadband services, there is more than five times as much spectrum available for licensed use as there is for unlicensed use. From Plumas, California to Logan, Ohio, entrepreneurs and small businesses are working with leaders in key sectors of the U.S. economy, such as health care, education and energy to develop wireless hotspots, medical patient monitoring, smart grid and other innovative applications that use unlicensed spectrum found in the television band. Spectrum policy must recognize that both licensed and unlicensed spectrum in the television band maximizes the economic benefits of wireless broadband. With a balanced approach to spectrum policy, we can unlock billions of dollars in private investment, new innovations, job creation, and economic growth. Thank you for considering these views.
02.09.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Pass STOCK Act February 9th, 2012 Washington, DC–Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted to pass the Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge (STOCK) Act, which passed the House by a vote of 417-2. This legislation prohibits Members of Congress, Congressional staff, and Executive Branch employees, from trading on non-public information obtained in official work. Eshoo, a co-sponsor of the legislation, signed a “discharge petition” last week to bring the legislation directly to the House Floor, bypassing a committee Hearing. “This common-sense bill will ensure Members of Congress and their staff will not profit from non-public information they are privy to solely because they work for the government,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Allegations of improper trading should be fully and quickly investigated, whether by businesses leaders or elected officials. Members of Congress found to have engaged in illegal activity must face the consequences of their actions. It’s that simple…with this legislation, all Members of Congress will be as accountable as any other American.” The Senate voted 96-3 to pass its version of the STOCK Act on February 2, 2012.
02.07.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Applauds Ninth Circuit Decision on “Prop 8” February 7th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruling that Proposition 8, the 2008 California ballot measure that banned same-sex marriage, was unconstitutional: “Today’s decision by the 9th Circuit panel is a victory for civil rights and a critical milestone in the long battle for marriage equality. This ruling—and our Constitution—have affirmed the equality of all Americans, and reminds us of how sacred these rights are.” said Eshoo. Writing for the majority in today’s Ninth Circuit opinion, Judge Stephen Reinhardt wrote, “Proposition 8 serves no purpose, and has no effect, other than to lessen the status and human dignity of gays and lesbians in California, and to officially reclassify their relationships and families as inferior to those of opposite-sex couples.” ###
02.07.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Offers Public Safety Amendment on Keystone Pipeline Bill February 7th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, offered an amendment to H.R. 3548, the North American Energy Access Act, to require the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to consider the results of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA)’s pipeline safety study prior to issuing a permit for the Keystone XL Pipeline. “At a time when we must find ways to end our dependence on fossil fuels, deepening our reliance on the dirtiest form of oil on the planet is simply not in the national interest. The least we can do is ensure that adequate standards are in place for the safe transportation of diluted bitumen. The defeat of my common-sense amendment furthers my belief that the Keystone pipeline will benefit oil companies and put American people at risk.” Last year, in the bipartisan pipeline safety bill that was signed into law, Public Law No: 112-90, Rep. Eshoo was successful in including language which requires PHMSA to complete a comprehensive review of hazardous liquid pipeline regulations to determine whether such regulations are sufficient to ensure the safety of pipelines used for the transportation of diluted bitumen. H.R. 3548 requires the FERC to issue a permit for the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline within 30 days of receiving an application and if FERC does not act on the permit application, the permit is deemed approved. H.R. 3548 passed out of the Energy and Commerce Committee 30 to 20 and Rep. Eshoo’s amendment failed on party lines. ###
02.02.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Releases Report of Effects on Constituents from Extension of Payroll Tax Cut February 2nd, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released findings from the Joint Economic Committee (JEC) detailing how much money would stay in the pocket of workers and families in California’s 14th Congressional District if Congress extends the payroll tax cut. Currently, the Payroll Tax Cut Conference Committee is meeting to discuss legislation designed to help boost the financial security of American families and workers. Specifically, the report estimates that the average family with two workers in San Mateo County would keep $1,423 more this year; in Santa Clara County $1,429; and in Santa Cruz County $925. The JEC report also indicates that the average family in California would keep an additional $1,042. “This report underscores how important it is for Congress to extend the payroll tax cut for ordinary Americans,” said Rep. Eshoo. “One thousand dollars will go a long way to help families pay their bills and put food on the table. Congress can and should reach a bipartisan compromise to extend this vital payroll tax holiday for 2012, providing families with an essential injection of cash.” The JEC report entitled, “Keeping More Money in the Pockets of American Families: County-Level Data of Savings by Extending the Payroll Tax Cut,” illustrates the impact on a family that consists of two earners who make the median wage and salary within the county. The report includes a county-by-county breakdown of the additional take-home pay of one and two-earner households if the payroll tax is extended through 2012. Many economists have observed that failing to extend the payroll tax cut would slow economic growth this year and cost the economy jobs. This report details how much more money the average American family would keep in their pockets for the remainder of 2012 if the payroll tax cut is extended.
01.25.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo and DeLauro Statements on Women and Hispanic Farmers January 25th, 2012 Washington, DC— Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) responded to the announcement made today by the U.S. Department of Agriculture on improving the process to resolve the claims of Hispanic and women farmers who have suffered from discrimination by the agency in the past. That announcement can be found here. “I’m pleased the Administration has continued to work on a process to effectively address the discrimination faced by women and Hispanic Farmers through the USDA,” said Rep. Eshoo. “However, I believe that all minority farmers including women, Hispanic, African-American and Native American suffered similar mistreatments and deserve similar compensation. I look forward to reviewing the details of the Administration’s plan to ensure it will be fair. Too many minority farmers lost their livelihoods because of discrimination and they cannot be shortchanged again.” “I commend the Administration for this constructive step forward and remain committed to ensuring that women and Hispanic farmers that suffered discrimination are not treated differently than other groups. This is an issue of fundamental fairness— all farmers should have equal access to the help they need, regardless of their gender or ethnicity,” said Rep. DeLauro. “I look forward to receiving additional, detailed information from the USDA and will continue to work with my colleagues, the Administration, and counsel to reach a solution that is fair for these farmers that often saw their livelihood affected by the agency’s discrimination.” In the last Congress, DeLauro and Eshoo introduced the Equality for Women Farmers Act to address this issue and bring the USDA’s history of discrimination to an end. The legislation would establish a system of compensation for women who have been victims of USDA gender inequity in the past and ensure that those seeking loans and loan management in the future are considered equally.
01.20.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren and Thompson Request Meeting with President on Failed Housing Policies January 20th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16), and Mike Thompson (CA-1) led a group of 27 California Members of Congress in calling on President Obama to take immediate action to address the nation’s foreclosure crisis. The Members have requested a meeting with the President to discuss policies that would reduce foreclosures and provide relief to homeowners. “The California Democratic Congressional Delegation has spent the last year meeting with one Administration official after another to present our legislative ideas, and the actions the Executive Branch can take to mitigate the foreclosure crisis”, said Eshoo. “The time has come for the delegation to speak directly to the President on behalf of our constituents whose lives have been upended, and present to him our bold and workable proposals to address this crisis.” “For over a year-and-a-half, we’ve corresponded with the President and met with Secretaries Donovan and Geithner and FHFA Acting Director DeMarco, urging swift and immediate action to help our constituents. There still seems to be no bold or effective action taken by the Administration. We have asked to meet with the President as soon as possible to discuss ways to advance meaningful relief and effective solutions for the housing market,” said Lofgren. “Our economy will continue to suffer and consumer confidence will never return if we do not help hard working families navigate through this housing nightmare,” said Thompson. “Nothing the Administration has tried is working and Californians are the ones suffering, living paycheck to paycheck and struggling to keep roofs over their heads. That is why we are calling on the President to meet with us so we can work together and fix this housing mess.” In California, more than 34% of homeowners with mortgages are considered “underwater” because they owe more on their homes than their homes are worth. In a letter to President Obama, Thompson, Lofgren, Eshoo and other California Members of Congress wrote, “We have also offered several specific recommendations to reduce preventable foreclosures and provide relief to aggrieved homeowners, including a principal paydown plan to reduce negative home equity which is necessary as the remedy for the housing woes in America. Despite our efforts, we have concluded that efforts by both the government and the private sector have not addressed our nation’s foreclosure crisis with sufficient urgency. We therefore request a meeting with you at the earliest opportunity to discuss additional actions your Administration can take to tackle the foreclosure crisis that is hurting so many of our constituents and slowing our economic recovery.” The full text of the letter is below. Dear President Obama: As Members of Congress from California, a center of the nation’s foreclosure catastrophe, we’ve written to you and your Administration regularly for a year-and-a-half, requesting more aggressive action to prevent foreclosures and resuscitate the ailing housing market. We have repeatedly met with Secretaries Donovan and Geithner during this time and have presented numerous constituent cases to them demonstrating the questionable, possibly fraudulent, and irresponsible practices of the mortgage servicing industry. We have also offered several specific recommendations to reduce preventable foreclosures and provide relief to aggrieved homeowners, including a principal paydown plan to reduce negative home equity which is necessary as the remedy for the housing woes in America. Despite our efforts, we have concluded that efforts by both the government and the private sector have not addressed our nation’s foreclosure crisis with sufficient urgency. We therefore request a meeting with you at the earliest opportunity to discuss additional actions your Administration can take to tackle the foreclosure crisis that is hurting so many of our constituents and slowing our economic recovery. As of the end of the third quarter in 2011, 10.7 million homeowners nationwide owed more on their mortgages than their homes are worth. In California alone, more than 34% of homeowners with mortgages faced negative equity or were very close to being underwater. These homeowners confront the highest risk of foreclosure, and could most benefit from meaningful mortgage principal reductions. Though the Administration has adopted the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) as its signature housing initiative, the overwhelming feedback from our constituents is that HAMP has not helped them. We believe additional and more effective approaches are necessary. One idea we proposed in previous correspondence to you is a temporary reduction in the interest rates of certain homeowners who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, so that the entirety of their monthly payments would be dedicated to paying down their principal balances for five years. We discussed this proposal with Secretaries Donovan and Geithner, and also with Ed DeMarco, the Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, all of whom expressed an interest in the idea. However, we have yet to receive a decision from your Administration. Why not? Our constituents and the health of our economy are dependent on swift and immediate action on ideas like this to prevent more foreclosures. We, as Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, look forward to meeting with you so we can discuss ways to advance meaningful and effective solutions to address a foreclosure crisis that is ravaging communities and hurting families. We stand ready to work with you to help the people we serve. Sincerely,
01.18.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises Rejection of the Keystone Pipeline Permit January 18th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after President Obama announced that he would formally reject the permit for the Keystone XL pipeline, which would transport diluted bitumen or “oil tar sands” from Alberta, Canada to refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast: “I’ve strongly opposed the Keystone XL Pipeline since its inception. This project is a wasteful, risky, misguided investment that would only serve to increase America’s support for one of the dirtiest source of transportation fuel available – oil sands petroleum. I’m pleased that President Obama has rejected the Keystone XL Pipeline, and I’ll continue to fight for policies that promote a clean energy future, not tie us to the polluting energy resources of the past.” On July 26, 2011, Rep. Eshoo offered an amendment on the floor of the House of Representatives to H.R. 1938, North American-Made Energy Security Act. Her amendment would have directed the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to complete a thorough review of the risks associated with transporting diluted bitumen over land before proceeding to construction of the Keystone XL project. The amendment failed on party lines. Rep. Eshoo has also sent several letters to U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton expressing concern for the project.
01.18.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Joins Internet Blackout in Protest to the Stop Online Piracy Act January 18th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement in support of the Internet blackout protesting the Stop Online Piracy Act. Additionally, Rep. Eshoo blacked out her website in support of the Internet protest (https://eshoo.house.gov), and tweeted her support. Rep. Eshoo: “History is being made by the more than 10,000 websites that have chosen to boycott SOPA by participating in today’s blackout. “Members of Congress need to hear about the consequences of SOPA, and when they do, they’ll learn of the serious consequences to the Internet the bill poses. It’s time to pull up the emergency brake on this legislation.” Eshoo’s website: Background: Rep. Eshoo is opposed to online piracy and committed to combating it, but this legislation would cause substantial harm to innovation and the economic opportunities created by the Internet. Specifically, the legislation gives the government broad new authority to order Internet Service Providers to implement various filtering technologies on their networks and create new forms of private legal action against websites. Eshoo previously sent a letter along with a group of bipartisan Members to Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith and Ranking Member John Conyers, expressing their opposition to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). They expressed concern that the legislation would give the government broad new authority to order Internet Service Providers to implement various filtering technologies on their networks and create new forms of private legal action against websites. In that letter, the Members wrote: “At a time of continued economic uncertainty, this legislation will result in fewer new businesses, fewer new investments, and fewer new jobs. ‘Rogue websites’ are no doubt a serious problem and we fully support targeted measures to shut them down. Like you, we understand the importance of combating piracy to protect the intellectual property of the American entertainment industry from copyright infringement in other parts of the world. We believe this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. The SOPA as written, however, is overly broad and would cause serious and long term damage to the technology industry, one of the few bright spots in our economy. We hope you will work with the technology community to find narrow and targeted remedies against online infringers. We also stand ready to work with you and your colleagues to find a solution that protects innovation, while combating against truly ‘rogue’ websites.” The full letter by the bipartisan group of Members can be found here.
01.16.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises Constituent, Internationally-Renowned Scientist For Receiving Enrico Fermi Award January 16th, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after President Obama announced Dr. Burton Richter will receive the Enrico Fermi Award, one of the government’s oldest and most prestigious awards for scientific achievement: “When Dr. Richter first discovered the subatomic particle psi, he broke new barriers that will benefit mankind for generations to come. And with his particle accelerator created at Stanford Linear Accelerator (SLAC), he put their physics department on the map and ensured that California’s 14th Congressional District would be a beacon for scientific research across the world. The prestigious Enrico Fermi Award is an eloquent statement about Dr. Richter’s leadership and commitment to advancing scientific research.” Dr. Richter was selected for the breadth of his influence in the multiple disciplines of accelerator physics and particle physics, his profound scientific discoveries, his visionary leadership as Director of SLAC, his pioneering leadership in science, and his notable contributions in energy and public policy. The Presidential award carries an honorarium of $50,000, shared equally between the two winners, and a gold medal. The award is administered on behalf of the White House by the U.S. Department of Energy. Upon receiving this award, Dr. Richter joins the ranks of the world’s most renowned scientists, including Dr. Robert Oppenheimer and Dr. Edward Teller.
01.11.2012	+ SHARE Reps. Anna Eshoo, Zoe Lofgren and Mike Thompson Call on Obama Administration to Address Housing Crisis January 11th, 2012 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representatives Anna Eshoo (CA-14), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) and Mike Thompson (CA-1) led a group of 25 California Members of Congress in calling on President Barack Obama to address the housing crisis and appoint a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The FHFA, which oversees mortgage backers Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, has been without a permanent director for two and a half years. “Our national economy cannot fully rebound unless and until housing is addressed. The current situation of foreclosures is unacceptable,” said Eshoo. “That’s why President Obama should appoint a permanent Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency immediately.” Lofgren said, ” Republicans in the Senate have been playing games with the American people by blocking the Federal Housing Financial Authority from having a proper leader. These are difficult times and we need to be doing everything we can to prevent foreclosures and keep families in their homes. I urge President Obama to take immediate action and appoint a permanent director.” “For far too long, partisan politics in the Senate have prevented the FHFA from having a permanent Director who can effectively address our nation’s housing crisis,” said Thompson. “Families are living paycheck to paycheck, struggling to keep roofs over their heads. Doing nothing is not an option. We need an FHFA Director who is willing to help Americans get out of this housing nightmare.” In California, more than 2 million homeowners are considered “underwater” because they owe more on their homes then their homes are worth, which equals 30 percent of all California homes with mortgages. In a letter to President Obama, Eshoo, Lofgren, Thompson and other California Members of Congress wrote, “The FHFA regulates and oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which together hold 70 percent of mortgages in the US. The current economic crisis began in the housing market and our economic recovery is dependent on the important work pending before the FHFA. It is time to move forward and put in place a permanent FHFA Director.” The full text of the letter is below, and can be found here . The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We urge you to act on behalf of the American people and immediately make an appointment for the Director of the Federal Housing Financial Agency (FHFA). For two and a half years, Senate Republicans have been blocking the appointment of this position, causing there to be no permanent Director. The FHFA regulates and oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which together hold 70% of mortgages in the US. The current economic crisis began in the housing market and our economic recovery is dependent on the important work pending before the FHFA. It is time to move forward and put in place a permanent FHFA Director. According to RealtyTrac, 224,394 U.S. properties had foreclosure filings in November, 2011. This means that 1 in every 579 housing units received a foreclosure filing nationwide. In California, 1 in every 211 housing units received a foreclosure filing. And there are fears that a new set of foreclosure waves may come in the next few months. According to RealtyTrac cofounder, James Saccacio, “November’s numbers suggest a new set of incoming foreclosure waves, many of which may roll into the market as REOs or short sales sometime early next year…some bellwether states such as California, Arizona and Massachusetts actually posted year-over-year increases in foreclosure activity in November.” It is clear that we must take immediate steps to prevent more foreclosures. As part of the FHFA’s ability to promote policies that will prevent foreclosures, they have the authority to establish rules over residential mortgages that Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other government enterprises are able to underwrite. FHFA has consistently and erroneously interpreted its mandate far too narrowly and as such has failed to take adequate action to help homeowners and has brought an end to successful, local initiatives—such as the PACE (Property Assessed Clean Energy) program. The PACE program allows property owners to finance energy efficiency measures and renewable energy projects for their homes and commercial buildings, thereby reducing their energy costs and making them better able to make mortgage payments. It has been successful in many of our districts, however, in July of 2009 FHFA issued a decision that essentially put an end to PACE programs across this country. As the fiduciary of government-backed entities, there are steps that the FHFA can take to help prevent future foreclosures while also protecting taxpayers. Installing a permanent Director of the FHFA will allow the FHFA to move forward to make key decisions that will help keep families in their homes and improve our economy. We appreciate your recent appointment of Richard Cordray as the new Director of the United States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau over similar Republican opposition and we urge that you take the same action to put in place a permanent Director to the FHFA. Sincerely,
01.10.2012	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo to Host Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus for Presentation of Military Award for World War II Veteran Carl Clark January 10th, 2012 Mountain View, CA – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced the details for a Military Award Presentation for then-Steward First Class Carl E. Clark, an African-American who served during World War II. He will be presented with the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with the Combat Distinguishing Device by Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus on Tuesday, January 17, at Moffett Field. Eshoo, who advocated for Clark to receive the recognition, will host the presentation. Moffett Field is home to the California Air National Guard 129th Rescue Wing. “It’s a high honor help right an indefensible wrong after 66 years. Carl Clark will be formally recognized as an American hero for his acts of valor in saving U.S.S. Aaron Ward on May 3, 1945,” said Rep. Eshoo. “On that day, Clark undoubtedly saved the lives of his crewmates and his ship after it was hit by six kamikaze planes, but his actions were never recognized. “Carl Clark served during a time of racial segregation and a culture of deep-seated racism, yet his courage stands a symbol of our nation’s greatness. I am exceedingly grateful to Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus for choosing to honor Carl Clark and the people of California’s 14th Congressional District by presenting the award to him.” TUESDAY, JANUARY 17TH, 2011: WHO: Carl E. Clark Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus Representative Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) WHAT: Carl Clark to be awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with the Combat Distinguishing Device for his heroic service during World War II WHERE: Moffett Field — Hangar 4 651 Johnny Luv Lane Moffett Federal Airfield, CA 94035 WHEN: Tuesday, January 17, 2012 1:00 p.m. RSVP: Media should R.S.V.P by Friday, January 13, 2012, to Patrick Boland at (202) 225-8104 Background on Carl Clark’s case: The Carl Clark case was complex given the lack of documentation and living witnesses to the events on May 3, 1945, near Okinawa, Japan. Like many other cases, decades of time made it difficult to provide appropriate documentation and eyewitnesses, but with the great assistance of the Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, this award was made possible. At dusk, the U.S.S. Aaron Ward took direct hits from 6 kamikaze planes and two separate bombs. Despite great peril to himself and a shoulder injury, Carl Clark alone aimed a fire hose that usually takes four men to control at the smoldering ammunition locker, preventing a fatal explosion that would have surely cracked the ship in two. After putting out the fire, Carl Clark risked his own life once again by exposing himself to incoming fire in order to aid his shipmates. Despite a broken collar bone and with no concern for his own safety, he carried his fellow injured sailors to safety and sustained fired from the enemy running to and from the aid station. Shelia Dunec, an Instructor at Foothill College has spent a decade documenting the stories of local veterans for a documentary, ‘Remembering World War II: First-Person Accounts.” She was critical in providing Rep. Eshoo with significant information about Carl Clark’s case. Scott James from the Bay Citizen/New York Times also provided key information about the last surviving officer from the Aaron Ward, Captain Lefteris ‘Lefty’ Lavrakas. WWII Veteran Rear Admiral Grealish also assisted in developing Carl Clark’s case. ###
12.22.2011	+ SHARE Christmas Miracle — Navy Veteran Carl Clark to Receive Service Awards December 22nd, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced that Carl Clark, a veteran living in Menlo Park, California will receive formal commendation awards from the Navy. Carl Clark, an African-American who served during World War II as an E-6 Steward First Class, will receive and be formally presented with the the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with the Combat Distinguished Device. Eshoo has worked for the past two years with Clark to ensure that he received the recognition that he, and his peers — all enlisted African-Americans serving in the Navy during the Greatest War — deserve. After receiving the news, Eshoo issued the following statement, and announced formal plans to honor his service and heroism. She personally spoke to Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus to thank him for his special role in recognizing Carl Clark. “Today, I’m proud to announce Carl Cark is at long last being properly acknowledged by his country as a true American hero who has saved the lives of many of his shipmates and played an undeniably significant role in saving the U.S.S. Aaron Ward over sixty six years ago. “It is a singular privilege to be in a position to correct the record for those who have fought to preserve our freedoms. Carl Clark served our nation during a time when the Navy was deeply segregated and a culture of racism was prevalent. His courage stands as a symbol of the greatness of our nation, and this award, also given to Senator John McCain, calls out Mr. Clark as a true American hero.” The Carl Clark case was complex given the lack of documentation and living witnesses to the events on May 3, 1945, near Okinawa, Japan. Like many other cases, decades of time made it difficult to provide appropriate documentation and eyewitnesses, but with the great assistance of the Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, this award was made possible. At dusk, the U.S.S. Aaron Ward took direct hits from 6 kamikaze planes and two separate bombs. Despite great peril to himself and a shoulder injury, Carl Clark alone aimed a fire hose that usually takes four men to control at the smoldering ammunition locker, preventing a fatal explosion that would have surely cracked the ship in two. After putting out the fire, Carl Clark risked his own life once again by exposing himself to incoming fire in order to aid his shipmates. Despite a broken collar bone and with no concern for his own safety, he carried his fellow injured sailors to safety and sustained fired from the enemy running to and from the aid station. Shelia Dunec, an Instructor at Foothill College has spent a decade documenting the stories of local veterans for a documentary, ‘Remembering World War II: First-Person Accounts.” She was critical in providing Rep. Eshoo with significant information about Carl Clark’s case. Scott James from the Bay Citizen/New York Times also provided key information about the last surviving officer from the Aaron Ward, Captain Lefteris ‘Lefty’ Lavrakas. WWII Veteran Rear Admiral Grealish also assisted in developing Carl Clark’s case.
12.16.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Hails Campaign Finance Disclosure Language in Omnibus Spending Bill December 16th, 2011 Washington, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) praised the inclusion of improved campaign finance disclosure language in the $900 billion “omnibus” spending bill that will fund federal government agencies through the end of 2012. The 2012 omnibus legislation removes riders attached to previous bills that specifically prohibited any disclosure for government contractors. This compromise language allows President Obama to move forward with disclosure requirements for contract recipients. “After President Obama’s draft Executive Order requiring disclosure of political spending by companies doing business with the federal government was leaked, big business and lobbyists were up in arms,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo. “In response, House Republicans repeatedly added riders to appropriations bills to block any new disclosure requirements over unified Democratic opposition. “Today’s compromise omnibus spending bill leaves the President free to require disclosure from any company receiving taxpayer dollars. We should all agree that with public dollars come public responsibilities. In the aftermath of the Citizens United decision, it’s even more important for us to stand up for transparency and disclosure. I hope the President takes this opportunity to finally issue his long-awaited Executive Order.” In February, Eshoo offered an amendment to H.R. 1 that mirrors the President’s Draft Executive Order which became public in April. On July 28, 2011, Rep. Eshoo sent a letter to President Obama, signed by 62 Members of Congress, urging him to finalize his Draft Executive Order on Contractors. The letter reads, in part: “Disclosure will not politicize the procurement process — it will improve it. Political expenditures are already well-known to those that make them and to the officials who benefit. With disclosure, the public will have access to this information as well, allowing them to judge whether contracts were awarded based on merit.” In reaction to the Rep. Eshoo’s proposal and the President’s Draft Executive Order, Republicans attached four riders to appropriations bills to prohibit any disclosure requirements whatsoever. Each time, Eshoo led the opposition to the riders, and offered her own amendment to require campaign disclosure. Each time, Republicans blocked the amendment from even being voted on.
12.16.2011	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo and Lofgren, California Democratic Congressional Delegation Call on President Obama to Provide Meaningful Relief to Homeowners December 16th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), chaired by Rep. Zoe Lofgren, sent a letter to President Obama urging fairness for the nation’s struggling homeowners. The Members are seeking to ensure any deal reached by the Administration and state Attorneys General with the nation’s biggest banks is fair to victims of mortgage abuse, and does not grant immunity to the worst offenders. In October, California Attorney General Kamala Harris exited the multi-state settlement negotiations, instead announcing an independent investigation to hold the biggest banks fully accountable. Today’s letter encourages the President to follow Harris’ lead, seeking meaningful relief for homeowners in California and across the country. “Homeowners in my District and across the country have been chewed up by mortgage servicer abuses,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo. “The complaints run the gamut from robo-signing to dual tracking, and even to lost paperwork, and to date there have been few consequences for banks even as the foreclosures continue. President Obama should not support any plan that grants the banks immunity for a pittance of a settlement. My constituents deserve a full accounting of bank abuses, as well as meaningful relief. I applaud Attorney General Harris for her leadership, and urge the President to join in her effort.” Zoe Lofgren, chair of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation, said, “Time and again we’ve asked that the Administration take strong action on behalf of our constituents who have been victimized by mortgage servicers. Homeowners are following the banks’ rules, and yet continue to be treated poorly. I hope that this Administration does not settle for the deal being pushed by the banks. Giving banks broad immunity would be settling—we must stand up for our constituents and demand more. Attorney General Harris’s refusal to accept the initial terms is a good move for Californians and homeowners across the country.” United States Attorney General Eric Holder and 48 state Attorneys General have been working with the nation’s five largest mortgage firms — Ally Financial, Bank of America, Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo — to reach a settlement over alleged illegal foreclosure practices in the wake of the financial crisis. According to some news reports, the settlement would only amount to $5 billion in real penalties to mortgage servicers. Furthermore, the proposed settlement would only help a fraction of those affected by the foreclosure crisis in California. The most-cited example of abuse is the so-called “robo-signing” of foreclosure documents. In October, Eshoo, Lofgren and the CDCD sent a separate letter to Attorney General Harris commending her decision to pursue a more equitable resolution for homeowners. In their letter, the Members stated: California has been hit extremely hard by the housing crisis. One of every 226 housing units in our state received a foreclosure filing in August – a rate over twice the national average…30 percent of homeowners with mortgages in our state are underwater – again one of the highest rates in the country. These problems do not just impact homeowners directly – they are devastating for realtors and construction workers who are losing work, for local government losing property tax receipts, and for all sorts of small businesses who lose customers. For this reason, we feel that it is critical that any settlement regarding these abuses must be fair to California homeowners. In particular, we believe that a deal must be structured to provide substantial relief for these homeowners. The letter that Eshoo and the California Democratic Congressional Delegation sent this week to President Obama is below : December 15, 2011 The President The White House Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: California homeowners, and those throughout the country, continue to suffer as a result of the irresponsible and fraudulent actions of the mortgage industry. We write in support of California Attorney General Kamala Harris’ continued investigation into the potential misconduct and fraud by the mortgage industry. Her determination to provide meaningful relief for California homeowners led to her decision in October 2011 to leave the multi-state settlement negotiations with the major banks. Attorney General Harris recently announced that she would be aligning her efforts with Nevada’s, with each state committing more resources and energy towards holding the mortgage industry accountable for their actions. In October 2011, California ranked second in the country, behind Nevada, in percentage of housing units that entered the foreclosure process—with nearly one in every 243 California homes entering the foreclosure process in that month alone. We know that California has been home to a myriad of abuses as we catalogued numerous constituent cases in a letter we sent to your Administration last year urging an immediate investigation. We support Attorney General Harris’ recent decision to pursue an independent investigation. We believe that any meaningful settlement must provide assistance for struggling homeowners—particularly those underwater—and should not grant banks a broad release from liability for abuses that have not been investigated and are not remedied by the settlement. The current multi-state settlement under review would relieve the banks of further liability without fully investigating the alleged wrongdoings. Furthermore, it would not provide meaningful relief to homeowners as it would apply to only 13% of the mortgages serviced by banks nationwide. It would likely result in $5 billion in real penalties to mortgage servicers, with the rest of the settlement coming in the form of non-cash accounting losses that servicers would have experienced anyway, as the borrowers they declined to assist went into foreclosure. We can and we must do better for our constituents. Attorney General Harris’ commitment to delivering a fair outcome for those who have been wronged by the mortgage industry should be commended. We hope that you will join her and advocate for stronger terms that will have a real impact for hard-working Americans who were victimized by the mortgage industry. ###
12.13.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Completion of CALM Act Rules – Stakeholders Have One Year to Turn Down Volume on Annoyingly Loud TV Commercials December 13th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), author of the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, announced that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has passed final rules implementing the law. Eshoo’s legislation prevents television advertisements from playing at a higher volume than the programs during which they air. Under the rules approved today by the FCC, absent a waiver, television broadcast stations, cable operators and other multichannel video programming distributors are required to comply with the FCC’s rules within one year. “I’m proud to have led the charge to pass the CALM Act, which will give consumers the relief they’ve clamored for. TV stations now have the responsibility to turn down the volume on excessively loud commercials, and it’s about time,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The law I wrote is simple – the volume of television commercials cannot be louder than regular programming. Households across the country will soon get the relief they deserve from the annoyance of blaringly loud television commercials.” Loud commercials have been a top consumer complaint for decades, and are listed as such in 21 of the FCC’s 25 quarterly reports between 2002 and 2009. According to a 2009 Harris poll, almost 90 percent of TV viewers are bothered by high commercial volumes, prompting 41 percent of viewers to turn down the volume, 22 percent to mute the TV, and 17 percent to change the channel altogether. In fact, before Eshoo’s legislation, the official FCC policy recommended that consumers mute commercials if they find them excessively strident. The CALM Act passed the Senate unanimously on September 29, 2010 and passed the House by a voice vote on December 2, 2010. President Obama signed Eshoo’s legislation into law on December 15, 2010. For the past year, Eshoo has been working with the FCC to ensure that the rules put in place are fair for both consumers and television broadcast stations, cable operators and other multichannel video programming providers.
12.07.2011	+ SHARE Reps. Anna Eshoo and Brian Bilbray Introduce Bipartisan Legislation To Ensure Prompt Payment for Medicaid Providers December 7th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) and Brian Bilbray (CA-50) introduced needed legislation to ensure that Medicaid providers are paid in an appropriate timeframe. This bipartisan legislation, the Fair Pay to Medicaid Providers Act, would require Medicaid to reimburse all providers, including nursing facilities, hospitals, and community health centers in a timely manner. Current law only requires prompt Medicaid payment to physicians. “This is a common sense bill directed to patients,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Our healthcare professionals and facilities deserve to be reimbursed in a predictable and consistent timeframe in order to provide optimal care to those in need. We must ensure that our communities’ most vulnerable citizens do not face a disruption in healthcare services, and our bipartisan bill helps to make sure their care is not held up by red tape and bureaucracy.” “Delayed payment to Medicaid providers puts patients and employees at risk,” said Rep. Bilbray. “Any delay of payment for care provided to patients can jeopardize facility operations and make it difficult to pay employees. This legislation guarantees that health care providers are paid in a timely manner so that they can focus on helping those in need without worrying about how they are going to meet their financial obligations.” Medicaid’s payment delay to providers adversely affects their ability to provide quality care to some of our nation’s most vulnerable citizens. Any delay of payment for care provided to patients significantly impedes cash flow. Such an interruption can jeopardize facility operations and make it difficult to pay staff. The 2008 budget impasse in California placed providers at significant risk as they operated without Medicaid payment for approximately 60 days. Some providers were forced to take out loans on retirement accounts and mortgage their homes in order to raise enough cash to pay employees. Additionally, some nursing facilities notified residents’ families that if buildings were forced to close, they would have to pick up their loved ones from the facility and take them elsewhere. The Fair Pay to Medicaid Providers Act requires that states must pay 90% of Medicaid claims within 30 days of the date of receipt of the claims, and 99% of claims within 90 days of the date of receipt.
12.02.2011	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren, Polis Statements on Release of Bipartisan, Bicameral SOPA Alternative December 2nd, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14), Zoe Lofgren (CA-16) and Jared Polis (CO-02) released the following statements regarding the legislative framework they developed with House and Senate colleagues to address the problem of copyright and trademark infringement perpetrated by websites operating outside the United States. The bipartisan group authored the draft as an alternative to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). SOPA has been widely criticized for the harm it could do to legitimate online commerce and innovation, free speech, cybersecurity, and the technical infrastructure of the Internet. The draft framework – “Fighting the Unauthorized Trade of Digital Goods While Protecting Internet Security, Commerce and Speech” – is authored by U.S. Senators Cantwell, Moran, Warner and Wyden and U.S. Representatives Chaffetz, Campbell, Doggett, Eshoo, Issa, Lofgren and Polis. To read the draft, please click here. Rep. Anna Eshoo: “Rogue websites and the pirates behind them represent the hijacking of American genius, and must be stopped. But the Stop Online Piracy Act’s overly broad language will seriously hinder the growth of new businesses, new investments, and new jobs. The economic opportunities and innovation created by the Internet and start-ups could be crushed under the weight of SOPA. That’s why I hope that the discussion draft released yesterday serves as a good starting point for future discussions on how to best protect U.S. intellectual property rights.” Rep. Zoe Lofgren: “This bipartisan alternative is offered as a serious step toward building meaningful consensus to curb online piracy, which is a real and legitimate concern for me and my colleagues. The strength of this alternative is that it focuses on remedies that are proven to work without doing unnecessary collateral damage.” Rep. Jared Polis: “The most effective way to combat online piracy is by treating piracy as the foreign trade issue it is. Governments controlling the Internet, as China has done, whether it is done under the pretense of restricting speech or rights infringement, is not a direction that the United States should encourage. We can and must protect the Internet, promote job creation and continue fostering the most entrepreneurial sector of the U.S. economy by going after the money that supports these illicit activities without harming legitimate websites and the breathtaking architecture of the Internet itself.” Reps. Eshoo, Lofgren and Polis previously sent a letter along with a group of bipartisan Members to Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith and Ranking Member John Conyers, expressing their opposition to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). They expressed concern that the legislation would give the government broad new authority to order Internet Service Providers to implement various filtering technologies on their networks and create new forms of private legal action against websites. In that letter, the Members wrote: “At a time of continued economic uncertainty, this legislation will result in fewer new businesses, fewer new investments, and fewer new jobs. ‘Rogue websites’ are no doubt a serious problem and we fully support targeted measures to shut them down. Like you, we understand the importance of combating piracy to protect the intellectual property of the American entertainment industry from copyright infringement in other parts of the world. We believe this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. The SOPA as written, however, is overly broad and would cause serious and long term damage to the technology industry, one of the few bright spots in our economy. We hope you will work with the technology community to find narrow and targeted remedies against online infringers. We also stand ready to work with you and your colleagues to find a solution that protects innovation, while combating against truly ‘rogue’ websites.” The full letter by the bipartisan group of Members can be found here.
12.01.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Urges Department of Transportation to Implement Cost-Saving Measures to Expand Broadband Deployment December 1st, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Communications and Technology Subcommittee, sent a letter to Department of Transportation (DOT) Secretary Ray LaHood urging him to administratively implement a “dig once” policy, similar to her Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2011 (H.R. 1695) introduced earlier this year. Adoption of a “dig once” policy by DOT would encourage the inclusion of “broadband conduit” – plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable – during the construction of federal highways. In the letter, Eshoo stated to LaHood that this policy “would facilitate the rapid deployment of broadband service, promote competition, and save taxpayer dollars by requiring the inclusion of ‘broadband conduit’ during the construction of federal highways. As we work towards bringing affordable, robust broadband service to the 18 million Americans without access today, it’s important to consider the significant cost savings from adopting a ‘dig once’ policy.” Additionally Eshoo said, “We need to continue looking for creative approaches at the federal level to rapidly deploy broadband and improve the economy with limited public dollars. I believe that the DOT has the tools to adopt a ‘dig once’ policy, and that’s why I’m asking Secretary LaHood to look at that option. A ‘dig once’ policy modeled after my legislation would expand broadband at a fraction of the cost by including the conduit as roads are already being built.” Eshoo’s legislation would save taxpayers money from transportation projects while significantly expanding the potential for broadband Internet access throughout the country. The Federal Highway Administration (FHA) has estimated that it is ten times more expensive to dig up and then repair an existing road to lay fiber, than to dig a channel for it when the road is being originally built or repaired. Additionally, as noted in the letter, the inclusion of broadband conduit is estimated to add less than 1 percent to the overall cost of highway projects. These costs would be easily offset by not having to dig up roads a second time, and bring many economic benefits like job creation and higher GDP growth rates. Secretary LaHood has previously voiced support for Eshoo’s legislation, and it has been included as one of the proposed recommendations in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) National Broadband Plan. Since introduction, Eshoo’s bill has gained significant support in the House. Currently, twenty-one Members have co-sponsored the legislation, including Reps. Xavier Becerra, Lois Capps, Judy Chu, Susan Davis, Sam Farr, Bob Filner, Rush Holt, Mike Honda, John Larson, Zoe Lofgren, Ed Markey, Doris Matsui, George Miller, Lucille Roybal-Allard, Adam Schiff, Pete Stark, Mike Thompson, Ed Towns, Henry Waxman, and Lynn Woolsey. The full letter to Secretary LaHood can be found here, and is below: November 30, 2011 The Honorable Ray LaHood, Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. Washington, D.C. 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood, I’m writing to bring your attention to H.R. 1695, the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2011. As you’ll recall, you expressed support for this legislation during a House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology hearing in November 2009. The concept was subsequently included as a recommendation in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) National Broadband Plan. The adoption of a “dig once” policy would facilitate the rapid deployment of broadband service, promote competition, and save taxpayer dollars by requiring the inclusion of “broadband conduit” during the construction of federal highways. As we work towards bringing affordable, robust broadband service to the 18 million Americans without access today, it’s important to consider the significant cost savings from adopting a “dig once” policy. The Federal Highway Administration estimates it is ten times more expensive to dig up and then repair an existing road to lay fiber, than to dig a channel for it when the road is being fixed or built. More recent data suggests that the inclusion of broadband conduit in highway construction projects will add less than 1 percent to the cost of the overall project. These costs would effectively be offset by not having to dig up a road a second time, in addition to the economic benefits of facilitating broadband deployment, including job creation, higher GDP growth rates, and improved employee productivity. I hope you’ll consider working with me to administratively include a “dig once” policy as a criteria for federal highway projects. Thank you for your consideration of my views, and I look forward to your response. Most gratefully, Anna G. Eshoo Member of Congress
11.29.2011	+ SHARE Energy and Commerce Democrats Release New Legislation to Create Nationwide, Interoperable Public Safety Broadband Network and Spur Wireless Innovation November 29th, 2011 Washington, DC— Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and other Democratic members of the Committee announced plans to introduce legislation that would create a nationwide, interoperable public safety broadband network. The “Wireless Innovation and Public Safety Act of 2011” would also provide the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) with incentive auction authority to efficiently and responsibly repurpose broadcast spectrum for commercial broadband purposes and unlicensed innovation. “Construction of a nationwide, public safety broadband network remains critical unfinished business,” said Rep. Waxman. “I and my colleagues on the Democratic side of the aisle believe it is long overdue. Although we are still hoping for bipartisan action on this critical issue, today we are laying out what we believe is the best path forward to resolve this problem. This legislation has garnered broad support from governors, mayors, the public safety community, public interest groups, and others, and I hope our Republican colleagues will join with us to pass this legislation and send it to the White House.” “I’m proud to introduce a bill that will finally provide our first responders with a nationwide, interoperable communications network and allocate the initial resources to transition our 9-1-1 call centers to support next generation technologies,” said Rep. Eshoo. “As mobile data usage continues to skyrocket, our bill will tackle this growing demand by expanding the availability of both licensed and unlicensed spectrum. A 21st century spectrum policy must balance the needs of wireless carriers as well as those of entrepreneurs, innovators, and start-ups. At a time in which job creation and spurring new innovation are paramount to our nation’s economic recovery, we must act now. While there continue to be key policy differences with the approach taken by the Majority, I remain hopeful that Thursday’s Subcommittee markup will provide an opportunity to debate these differences and finally reach a bipartisan compromise.” “When it comes to the communications needs of public safety, we must ensure that our brave first responders have the communications tools they need to do their dangerous jobs,” said Rep. Edward J. Markey. “With the creation of a nationwide, interoperable public safety network, this legislation would enable fulfillment of one of the most important recommendations of the 9/11 Commission. While addressing the need for more spectrum, the bill also ensures that an auction would be truly voluntary for broadcasters, who would receive a portion of the auction proceeds and additional choices in the marketplace, if they chose to participate in the auction. I look forward to working with my colleagues, hopefully on a bipartisan basis, as this vital issue moves forward.” “The bill we are introducing today is based on sound policy, and has been carefully crafted with regard to the witness testimony we have heard on spectrum,” said Rep. Doris Matsui. “This legislation will finally provide public safety with a nationwide interoperability network and continue to foster American innovation and ingenuity, all while maintaining sound fiscal discipline. And, the bill is clear in answering the questions of ‘who will govern this network?’ and ‘how will we ensure taxpayer money is used efficiently?’ I join my colleagues in calling for this legislation to be passed right away. This is a matter of public safety and of jobs, neither of which can wait.” “I am pleased to support and co-sponsor the Wireless Innovation and Public Safety Act of 2011,” said Rep. Donna M. Christensen. “Having served on the House Committee on Homeland Security for many years, representing a district that has been hit by quite a few hurricanes, and having witnessed the tragedy of communication failure during some our country’s greatest disasters, I know the absolute importance of interoperability for law enforcement and first responders. Our citizens need the security and our responders need the coordination capabilities and safety that interoperability provides. I want to thank Mr. Waxman and Ms. Eshoo for this legislation which will pair the desire of our first responders to work together with cutting edge broadband technology which would finally produce the type of nationwide network that we need.” The legislation reallocates the D Block spectrum for public safety use. In addition, it promotes efficient spectrum use by enabling sharing of public safety network spectrum and infrastructure to facilitate interoperability among agencies responding to emergencies and promote public/private partnerships to speed network deployment. The legislation would establish a private, non-profit entity, the Public Safety Broadband Corporation, as the national governance vehicle for ensuring fiscal responsibility and accountability. The legislation also directs the Commission to identify and auction approximately 250 MHz of spectrum to be made available for commercial mobile broadband. Proceeds from the auctions will be deposited into the Public Safety Trust Fund. The legislation also provides the FCC with the flexibility to preserve unlicensed spectrum in the TV band. Unlicensed spectrum in the TV band will enable innovators and entrepreneurs to develop applications and services like, super Wi-Fi hotspots, which will drive new economic opportunity and job creation. The legislation also gives the FCC incentive auction authority to compensate licensees for voluntary relinquishment of their spectrum usage rights. The “Wireless Innovation and Public Safety Act of 2011” builds on the bipartisan legislation introduced in the Senate, S. 911, the “SPECTRUM Act”, introduced by Sen. Rockefeller and Sen. Hutchison. Groups in support of the legislation include the Public Safety Alliance, the National Governors Association, the National League of Cities, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Association of Counties, the International City/County Management Association, Consumer Federation of America, Consumer’s Union, Public Knowledge, the New America Foundation, Free Press, and Media Access Project. The original cosponsors of the “Wireless Innovation and Public Safety Act of 2011” are Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, Rep. Edward J. Markey, Rep. Mike Doyle, Rep. Doris Matsui, Rep. Donna M. Christensen, Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr., Rep. Diana DeGette, Rep. Eliot Engel, and Rep. Jan Schakowsky. The full text of the legislation, a four page summary, and statements of support are available on line here.
11.29.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Facebook-FTC Agreement November 29th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released the following statement about the agreement announced today between Facebook and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC): “I welcome the settlement reached today by Facebook and the Federal Trade Commission. By making important and positive improvements to its approach to protecting user privacy, Facebook has made a commitment that will put consumers first. “The importance of personal privacy is woven into the fabric of our country, and use of personal data by any company must be transparent and secure. I’ve always believed that companies, whether large or small, should provide tools that give consumers confidence that their information will not be shared more broadly than they intended. Today’s agreement upholds this belief.” A copy of the agreement can be found here.
11.15.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo, House Members Blast “Stop Online Piracy Act,” Urge Judiciary Committee to Target Actual Rogue Internet Sites November 15th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, led a bipartisan group of eleven Members in sending a letter to the Judiciary Committee Chairman Lamar Smith and Ranking Member John Conyers, expressing their opposition to H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). The Judiciary Committee is holding a hearing on SOPA on Wednesday, November 16th. Reps. Anna Eshoo, Zoe Lofgren, Jared Polis, Ron Paul, Doris Matsui, Mike Doyle, Mike Honda, Lloyd Doggett, Mike Thompson, George Miller and John Campbell signed the letter. Each Member is opposed to online piracy and committed to combating it, but this legislation would cause substantial harm to innovation and the economic opportunities created by the Internet. Specifically, the legislation gives the government broad new authority to order Internet Service Providers to implement various filtering technologies on their networks and create new forms of private legal action against websites. In the letter, the Members wrote: “At a time of continued economic uncertainty, this legislation will result in fewer new businesses, fewer new investments, and fewer new jobs. ‘Rogue websites’ are no doubt a serious problem and we fully support targeted measures to shut them down. Like you, we understand the importance of combating piracy to protect the intellectual property of the American entertainment industry from copyright infringement in other parts of the world. We believe this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed.” “The SOPA as written, however, is overly broad and would cause serious and long term damage to the technology industry, one of the few bright spots in our economy. We hope you will work with the technology community to find narrow and targeted remedies against online infringers. We also stand ready to work with you and your colleagues to find a solution that protects innovation, while combating against truly ‘rogue’ websites.” The full letter is below and can be found here : Dear Chairman Smith and Ranking Member Conyers, We write to express our concerns with H.R. 3261, the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA). While combating online copyright infringement is a goal we all strongly support, if enacted as currently written, this legislation would cause substantial harm to the innovation and economic opportunities created by the Internet. The Internet continues to be a revolutionary tool, advancing technological innovation, disseminating artistic expression, and supporting millions of jobs across the country. In fact, a recent McKinsey report concluded that 15 percent of U.S. GDP growth from 2004 through 2009 came from the Internet industry. You’ve previously stated that this legislation is intended to target “rogue” foreign websites engaging in copyright infringement. While this is a laudable goal and one we support, the SOPA’s overly broad language, in its current form, would target legitimate domestic websites, creating significant uncertainty for those in the technology and venture capital industries. As you know, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, signed into law in 1998, already includes a notice-and-takedown process for both foreign and domestic infringing content. Additionally, a carefully crafted safe harbor protection has enabled countless Silicon Valley successes like Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Google. The SOPA overturns this basic protection through broad, vague new standards of liability. The result will be an explosion of innovation-killing lawsuits and litigation. The impact on new businesses and startups, particularly small businesses, will be far more detrimental. For example, venture capitalists will be hesitant to invest in new Internet-based businesses if they fear their money will be tied up in litigation. As prominent Silicon Valley investor Derek Parham explains, What used to be two guys in a garage coming up with an idea and starting a company is now going to be two guys in a garage with four lawyers behind them — and that’s not how the Valley really got started. People shouldn’t be fearful of getting sued out of oblivion when they go create a new idea. At a time of continued economic uncertainty, this legislation will result in fewer new businesses, fewer new investments, and fewer new jobs. “Rogue websites” are no doubt a serious problem and we fully support targeted measures to shut them down. Like you, we understand the importance of combating piracy to protect the intellectual property of the American entertainment industry from copyright infringement in other parts of the world. We believe this is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. The SOPA as written, however, is overly broad and would cause serious and long term damage to the technology industry, one of the few bright spots in our economy. We hope you will work with the technology community to find narrow and targeted remedies against online infringers. We also stand ready to work with you and your colleagues to find a solution that protects innovation, while combating against truly “rogue” websites. Thank you in advance for your consideration of our views. ###
11.02.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Passes Bipartisan Legislation To Facilitate the Flow of Capital to Small Businesses November 2nd, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted to pass the Small Company Capital Formation Act, bipartisan legislation she sponsored with Rep. David Schweikert (R-AZ). The bill would increase the offering limit from $5 million to $50 million under SEC Regulation A, which was enacted during the Great Depression to facilitate the flow of capital to small businesses. “I’m proud to represent the innovation capital of our country, Silicon Valley, where we know if we don’t constantly innovate, we will stagnate,” said Rep. Eshoo. “In these difficult economic times, it’s critical for Congress to facilitate capital formation and bolster American innovation. “$5 million falls far short of what many companies require to develop the cutting-edge technologies needed in today’s economy. It’s outdated, it fails to serve its intended purpose and that’s why this legislation is needed. What better time than now, when our economy needs this important boost.” “Small businesses are the backbone of job growth in our country. Taking a small business public is an important, but expensive process that requires millions in underwriting costs,” said Rep. Schweikert. “This bill relieves companies from these costs and excessive burdens and will assist them in efficiently raising funds to hire new employees. I am glad my colleagues stand with me in unwinding regulation to make our capital markets more vibrant and competitive.” Regulation A was established as part of the 1933 Securities Act and was designed to provide regulatory relief for small firms that want to sell shares of company stock. These “mini offerings” have been used to help small companies raise capital and test the water for future initial public offerings. Unfortunately the Regulation A threshold has been stuck at $5 million since 1992. At such a low level, the benefit of a Regulation A offering is extremely limited. In fact, only three companies took advantage of it in 2010. In December 2010, Eshoo testified before the House Committee on Financial Services Hearing about the need to increase the offering limit under “Regulation A.” To read her testimony, please click here. Eshoo also led the Bay Area Congressional delegation in a February 2011 letter to President Obama , and March 2011 letter to Chairwoman Mary Schapiro urging the Administration to exercise its authority under Section 28 of the Securities Act to raise the Regulation A offering limit. President Barack Obama has included this legislation in his bipartisan American Jobs Act and said in his joint session to Congress addressing jobs that, “We needed to cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public.” ###
10.27.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Commends FCC Action to Reform and Modernize Universal Service Fund October 27th, 2011 Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to reform and modernize the Universal Service Fund (USF) and Intercarrier Compensation (ICC) system: “Today’s vote by the FCC will have a meaningful impact on consumers across the nation. The reforms adopted to the USF and ICC system fulfill one of the key recommendations outlined in the National Broadband Plan, and will increase access to broadband in rural America, eliminate duplicative subsidies, and finally bring the USF High-Cost program and the ICC system into the 21st century. “Bravo to the Commission for its work leading up to the adoption of today’s rules. Ensuring affordable, robust broadband service to the 18 million Americans without access today is one of the most important infrastructure investments of our time.”
10.27.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on FCC Proposed Rulemaking to Increase Disclosure of Political Advertising October 27th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and a Congressional leader on campaign finance reform, released the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted on a notice of proposed rulemaking to bring broadcaster “public files” onto the Internet using a centralized FCC database: “I applaud the FCC’s decision today to explore options for increasing disclosure of who is buying political ads on television. For years, the contents of a broadcaster’s so-called ‘public file’ have been kept in filing cabinets. It’s time to make this information available to the general public online. “In an age of secretive political spending by unregulated outside groups like Super PACs, consumers deserve to know who is using the public airwaves, and for what purpose. Larger issues of campaign finance disclosure remain unresolved by today’s proposal, but putting this information online is an important first step. Consumers deserve to know who is paying what to influence them. Burying that information in an out-of-the-way filing cabinet doesn’t meet the high standard the public deserves.”
10.21.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on President’s Announcement to Withdraw Troops from Iraq by End of the Year October 21st, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after President Obama announced that the United States will withdraw U.S. troops from Iraq by the end of the year, effectively bringing the war to a close: “I voted against the Iraq war resolution in 2002, and since then I have fought to end this war. It has cost us dearly. There have been over 4,400 U.S. lives lost and more than 30,000 U.S. soldiers wounded. Our country has spent trillions of dollars in Iraq during a profound economic downturn, and our international reputation has been needlessly tarnished by a war that should never have taken place. I’ve waited a long time to hear the news that our troops will finally come home. “I pay tribute to the men and women of our armed services who have served our country with honor. As they return, we should reward them with economic and educational opportunities.” Eshoo voted against H.J. Res 114, Authorization for the Use of Military Force Against Iraq.
10.12.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Applauds Senate Introduction of 4G Legislation by Senators Blumenthal, Klobuchar and Franken October 12th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), top Democrat on the U.S. House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, applauded Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Senator Al Franken (D-MN) for introducing a Senate companion bill to the Next Generation Wireless Disclosure Act, which she introduced in the U.S. House in June. “Consumers deserve to know exactly what they’re getting when they sign up for a two year wireless data plan,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Consumers want faster and faster phones, and demand for 4G is only going to increase. But they also deserve to know the truth about the speeds they’re actually getting. Wireless companies advertise 4G service as ‘lightening fast’ and ‘super-charged,’ but that’s not always the case. My legislation is simple – it will require truth in advertising. “I’m proud that Senators Blumenthal, Klobuchar and Franken have introduced this legislation in the Senate. With their help, we can make sure that consumers have all the information they need to make an informed choice about which wireless data service to purchase.” Senators Blumenthal, Klobuchar and Franken introduced the legislation earlier today in the Senate, and released the following statements: Sen. Blumenthal said, “As consumers become more reliant on Internet capabilities from their mobile devices, it is essential that they have the most accurate and useful information about the products and plans they are purchasing. Whether they are using a tablet or a smartphone, wireless users deserve an honest description by companies of product capabilities. I’m proud to introduce the Senate companion to the bill that Representative Eshoo has worked so tirelessly on in the House to help bring fairness and certainty to consumers.” Sen. Klobuchar said, “When consumers purchase a 4G wireless plan, they have the right to know exactly what they’re getting for their money. This legislation will help ensure that wireless companies are honest about their product’s capabilities so consumers can get a fair deal.” Sen. Franken said, “While wireless data makes it easier for people all over Minnesota to do their jobs and to access music, movies, and books from virtually anywhere, it’s important that consumers know what they’ll be paying for when they sign a contract. Wireless providers need to make sure their customers can count on the speed, reliability, and the price they were promised when they signed up. And if they can’t fulfill their promise, they need to be held accountable.” As it stands there is no standard definition for 4G wireless broadband internet, allowing the four major wireless companies in the United States to advertise several different technologies as “4G,” despite vastly different speeds based on their wireless provider and location. The Next Generation Wireless Disclosure Act would require wireless companies to disclose the details listed below in their marketing and advertising at the point of sale and in all billing materials. • Guaranteed minimum data speed • Network reliability • Coverage area maps • Pricing • Technology used to provide 4G service • Network conditions that can impact the speed of applications and services used on the network The legislation will further require the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to evaluate the speed and price of 4G wireless data service provided by the top ten U.S. wireless carriers. This will provide consumers with access to a side-by-side comparison in their service area. For full background on Rep. Eshoo’s Next Generation Wireless Disclosure Act (H.R. 2281), please click here. Rep. Eshoo’s legislation has been endorsed by several groups, including the Consumers Union, the National Consumers League, New America Foundation, the Media Access Project and Public Knowledge. A copy of the bill can be accessed here. Eshoo serves as the Ranking Member on House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Communications and Technology Subcommittee.
10.12.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo and California Democratic Congressional Delegation Calls on President Obama to Act on Housing October 12th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and members of the California Democratic Congressional Delegation (CDCD), sent a letter to President Obama urging him to act immediately to address our country’s troubled housing market. Specifically, the letter calls on President Obama to: Urge the Federal Housing Finance Agency to establish a plan to refinance all mortgages owned or guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Push for a major principal reduction plan for underwater homeowners, such as modifications in coordination with Chapter 13 bankruptcy filings. Institute a “Homeowner’s Bill Of Rights” that would apply to HAMP, FHFA, HUD, VA and private servicer modification programs and include the following: Make the process homeowner-friendly: Ensure a single point of contact; require servicers to review documents within a timely fashion and disclose information; and ban “advanced fees.” Eliminate needless obstacles to effective modifications: Allow for flexibility in the debt to income ratio; end the requirement that homeowners be delinquent in order to be eligible for a loan modification; end dual tracking; and require that servicers not report adverse credit information while trial or permanent modification is underway; Ensure accountability and establish an appeals process: Create an Office of Consumer Advocate; conduct random audits of modifications; and establish an independent appeals process for homeowners who believe their modification has been improperly rejected or handled in violation of program rules To read the California Delegation’s full lettter to President Obama, please click here . Since Rep. Eshoo and the California Democratic Congressional Delegation’s letter, a number of media outlets have reported on Rep. Eshoo’s proposals and actions. Please see some of the news stories below to read more about Eshoo’s work and views on housing: KQED – The Forum: Obama’s Mortgage Proposal (Tuesday, October 25, 2011) The Hill – More needs to be done on housing (Tuesday, October 25, 2011) Bay Citizen – Bay Area Reps: Obama Finally Took Our Advice on Mortgages (Tuesday, October 25, 2011) Mercury News – Bay Area underwater homeowners thown lifeline by Obama (Monday, October 24, 2011) Santa Cruz Sentinel – Obama offers mortgage relief on western trip: 20 percent of local residents under water in their loans (Monday, October 24, 2011) San Mateo Daily Journal – Eshoo: Obama fails on foreclosures (Wednesday, October 19, 2011) KALW’s Your Call – What’s happening in the foreclosure crisis in California? (Tuesday, October 18, 2011) NPR – Angry Calif. Democrats call on Obama to help struggling homeowners (Wednesday, October 12, 2011) Bay Area News Group – Lawmakers urge Obama to act on housing (Wednesday, October 12, 2011) Santa Cruz Sentinel – Farr, Eshoo press president on foreclosure crisis (Wednesday, October 12, 2011) The Hill – California Dems intensify pressure on Obama to tackle foreclosure (Wednesday, October 12, 2011) San Franisco Chronicle – California Dems blast Obama on foreclosure crisis (Wednesday, October 12, 2011) The Hill – Frustrated Democrats suggest top Obama housing official resign (Thursday, October 6, 2011) For more information about Rep. Eshoo’s positions and stances on housing, please click here.
10.11.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Funding to Build New Polytrauma-Blind Rehabilitation Center at Palo Alto VA October 11th, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced it would award a $98.8 million contract to build a new Polytrauma-Blind Rehabilitation Center located on the campus of the VA Palo Alto Health Care System: “VA Palo Alto continues to lead the way in patient care and innovative treatment options for our returning veterans. This new state-of-the-art facility is the first of its kind, and will help to ensure that we meet our commitments to the brave women and men returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. I applaud VA Secretary Eric Shinseki and the entire staff at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System for their continued care and devotion to our veterans.” Background: In 2005, the VA Palo Alto Health Care System was designated a Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center. Since then, the program has been housed in an existing facility originally constructed in 1960. The Western Blind Rehabilitation Center, which began in 1967, has been housed in a building constructed in 1977. The $98.8 million contract was awarded to Walsh/DeMaria Joint Venture V of Chicago, Ill., on Sept. 30. Construction is scheduled to be completed in spring 2014. The three-story facility will be Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) silver equivalency. This will be VA’s first and only Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center to be combined with a Blind Rehabilitation Center. At 174,000 square feet, this new facility is the largest consolidated rehabilitation center in VA. The Rehabilitation Center includes 24 beds for the polytrauma program, 32 beds for the blind rehabilitation program, and 12 beds for the polytrauma transitional rehabilitation program. The center will also have an outpatient physical therapy/occupational therapy clinic, an outpatient physical medicine and rehabilitation clinic, and clinical programs for Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation Iraqi Freedom Veterans. In addition to the new Polytrauma-Blind Rehabilitation Center, a 600-car, four-story parking garage will be constructed adjacent to the new facility to support the growing demand for onsite parking.
10.07.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement for the Congressional Record on the Passing of Steve Jobs October 7th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) submitted the following statement to the Congressional Record in honor of Steve Jobs: A Tribute in Honor of Steven Paul Jobs 1955 – 2011 Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo 14th Congressional District, California Mr. Speaker, I rise today with great sadness to speak about the passing of my constituent – an American icon, an American genius – Steve Jobs. Steve was a child of Silicon Valley before there even was a Silicon Valley. He was born here, he was raised here, he started his business here, and he raised his family here. He was a part of Silicon Valley from start to finish, and I’m proud to have had him as my constituent. Like many of Silicon Valley’s pioneers and innovators, Steve began in a garage with just a simple idea and an oversized dream. And from those humble beginnings, his creative genius literally shaped our entire world. In his short life, Steve Jobs’ accomplishments elevated him as one of the great American innovators, not only in the 20th and 21st centuries, but in the history of our entire nation. Steve said, “We’re here to put a dent in the universe. Otherwise why else even be here?” He put far more than just a dent in the world – he changed the way we work, learn, play and live – Macs, iPods, iTunes, iPhones, iPads, movies, design, and the democratization of the technology. He personalized technology for every man, woman and child. As the world will mourn him, Silicon Valley will personally miss him, his brilliant mind, and his restless genius. Steve urged colleagues and friends, “Your time is limited. Don’t waste it living someone else’s dream.” Steve’s legacy will live on and it will continue to inspire future generations of Americans. Mr. Speaker, I ask the entire U.S. House of Representatives to join with me in expressing our deepest sympathy to Laurene Jobs and their four children. As a poet wrote “…and so he passed, and all the trumpets sounded on the other side.” ###
10.06.2011	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Thompson, Matsui and Miller Issue Statement on Meeting with FHFA Acting Director DeMarco October 6th, 2011 Washington D.C. – U.S. Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14), Mike Thompson (CA-1), Doris Matsui (CA-5), and George Miller (CA-7) today issued the following statements after meeting with the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Acting Director Edward DeMarco: “There has been a complete failure on the part of the Obama Administration to address the catastrophic wave of home foreclosures across the country, leaving families in despair and wreaking havoc in countless communities,” said Eshoo. “In order for our economy to expand, an effective policy must be put into place to turn this devastation of housing around. The Administration’s weak responses have barely touched ‘the tip of the iceberg,’ and today’s meeting with FHFA Acting Director Edward Demarco was a deeply disappointing one, with few answers and fewer solutions. My constituents deserve so much better than this.” “Our economy will continue to suffer and taxpayer confidence will never return if we do not help hard working families navigate through this mortgage nightmare,” said Thompson. “Taxpayers watched as the big banks and bankers were bailed out and now they are losing their homes as their government and the FHFA watches. Nothing the FHFA or the Administration has done has worked. This is unacceptable. I call on Acting Director DeMarco and the Administration to take action to help our families that are living paycheck to paycheck, struggling to keep roofs over their heads. Our mortgage crisis is a shared crisis, hurting not only those taxpayers caught in the housing disaster, but also their families, friends and our communities.” “Communities like my hometown of Sacramento continue to reel as a result of the financial meltdown the big banks caused, yet these same banks continue to stand by and do almost nothing to help those who are struggling,” said Matsui. “Meanwhile, refinancing plans have not been effective enough for Sacramento families. It is critical that lending institutions step up now and work with responsible homeowners seeking affordable loan modifications to keep their families in their homes. Today Acting Director DeMarco heard very clearly from members of the Housing Stabilization Task Force – including myself – that the FHFA must do more to stabilize our nation’s housing market. Current programs are not doing enough for families in my district – and that must start changing immediately.” “My constituents are being chewed up and tossed out by the largest companies in this country – and so far, we haven’t seen enough done to help them out of this mess,” said Miller after the meeting. “Today’s meeting was about one thing – sending a message in the strongest possible terms that the Obama Administration must take the concerns of our homeowners seriously. Our constituents must be heard, and the Administration should focus their efforts on helping homeowners, not big banks.” ###
10.05.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Invites Students to Apply for Student Advisory Boards in San Mateo, Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties October 5th, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) invited high school students to apply to serve on the 14th Congressional District Student Advisory Boards in San Mateo, Santa Clara and Santa Cruz Counties. Founded by Rep. Eshoo in 1993, the Boards have researched public policy issues and made recommendations for federal legislation on a wide range of issues, including campaign finance and election reforms, education and gun control. “Every voice matters – that’s why I formed the Student Advisory Boards when I first took office,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Each year, the Board participants make policy recommendations on Congressional issues. As the future leaders of our country, students have the opportunity to take an active role in public policy and have their voices heard. I encourage high school students in California’s 14th Congressional District to apply to serve on one of the Boards.” Students on the Boards meet twice a month for most of the school year and present their policy recommendations to Rep. Eshoo in May. The Student Advisory Board is open to high school students in the 14th Congressional District. Students are invited to apply by Friday, October 21st. For more information on the 14th Congressional District Student Advisory Board, students can call Rep. Eshoo’s office at (650) 323-2984, (408) 245-2339 or (831) 335-2020 or download the application at her website.
10.04.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Successfully Saves Vital Clean Vehicle Technologies Funding Program October 4th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted to pass the Fiscal Year 2012 Continuing Resolution (CR), which will fund the government through November 18th. This CR provides $2.6 billion for federal Emergency Management Agency disaster relief, without a $1.5 billion cut to the Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing (ATVM) program. In September, Reps. Eshoo and Gary C. Peters (D-MI) led an effort with 108 Members of the House urging Speaker Boehner to abandon efforts to ditch the successful program. Click here for more information . “It’s a victory that the House GOP leadership reversed course,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Today’s CR does not harm the ATVM program, which has created or saved 41,000 jobs from California to Michigan to Ohio. The program is on-track to create at least another 35,000 jobs by year’s end. Eliminating the ATVM program would have cost our country desperately-needed jobs. American ingenuity, American manufacturing, and American fuel efficient cars were all on the chopping block.” “My number one priority is jobs in the Greater Detroit area and that’s why I stood up and fought for this program which has created or protected 41,000 auto manufacturing jobs and brought the production of the Ford Focus from Mexico to Michigan,” said Rep. Peters. “I worked very hard to forge a coalition to stop these job killing cuts from becoming law and we have won this fight. This is a victory for the folks that work hard every day at our auto manufacturing facilities and while I hope that the Republicans end their war on jobs, if they decide to attack American workers again, I’ll keep fighting them.” Eshoo’s efforts were joined by a broad array of outside groups. Letters of support for the ATVM program were sent from the Chamber of Commerce, National Association of Manufacturers, the BlueGreen Alliance, Clean Economy Network, Ecology Center, Environment America, League of Conservation Voters, Natural Resources Defense Council, Safe Climate Campaign, Sierra Club, Union of Concerned Scientists, the United Auto Workers International and the United Steelworkers, Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the American Automotive Policy Council and the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association. Today, the CR to fund the government and emergency disaster funding without cutting the ATVM loan program passed the House by a vote of 352-66 and will now be sent to the White House to be signed into law. Eshoo and Peters’ letter to Speaker Boehner that launched the fight to save ATVM is below: Dear Speaker Boehner, While we fully support providing emergency funding to those who have been impacted by Hurricane Irene and other natural disasters, we urge you not to pay for disaster relief by cutting programs that are designed to create new jobs and help ensure a strong domestic manufacturing sector. The Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing (ATVM) Loan Program, also known as the Section 136 loan program, was authorized in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and signed into law by President George W. Bush. The program provides loans to automakers and auto parts manufacturers to help them retool manufacturing facilities in the United States to produce highly fuel efficient, advanced technology vehicles or components. In 2008, Congress approved $7.5 billion of credit subsidy to support $25 billion of loans to promote the production of energy efficient advanced vehicles and component parts. The ATVM program has a demonstrated record of success and job creation. $3.5 billion of credit subsidy has been used to make six loans totaling $9.2 billion that created or saved 41,000 jobs in Tennessee, California, Indiana, Michigan, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, and Ohio. It is expected that before the end of the year $2.5 billion will be awarded to eleven more companies in Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, and Louisiana creating or saving an additional 35,000 to 40,000 jobs. There are already twelve projects in early stages of due diligence to compete for the remaining available loan authority and the Department of Energy continues to receive new applications every month. These projects could create more than 10,000 jobs, but not if the $1.5 billion cut to the program is signed into law. By 2025, automakers are going to be required to sell cars and trucks that have an average fuel economy of 54.5 mpg. Achieving this increase in fuel economy will require the widespread adaptation of advanced vehicle technologies such as batteries. The ATVM loans are a critical program that will ensure that the domestic auto manufacturers have the capacity to make these technologies here in the United States rather than import them from China and other countries. While the government has a responsibility to fund disaster response in places that were devastated by Hurricane Irene or other natural disasters, it is unconscionable to use funds designed to create jobs in manufacturing states to pay for it. Many of the states that stand to benefit the most from this program are still suffering from higher than average unemployment rates, and are badly in need of the kind of good paying manufacturing jobs these loans will create. The American people expect us to act quickly to create jobs and respond to those harmed by natural disasters. We urge you to advance a Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution that does not put these two important goals in conflict with one another and preserves funding for the Department of Energy’s ATVM Loan Program. Sincerely,
09.22.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Proposed FCC Rule to Accelerate Next Generation 9-1-1 Technology September 22nd, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) voted to pass a proposed rule to accelerate the development and deployment of Next Generation 9-1-1 (NG911) technology: “Today’s FCC vote is an important milestone in the evolution of Next Generation 9-1-1. The Commission has taken an important step forward to provide the tools that call centers need in order to have 21st Century operations, improving quality and speed of emergency response. “Combined with the Next Generation 9-1-1 Advancement Act of 2011, a bipartisan bill I introduced with Rep. John Shimkus, the FCC’s efforts will ensure that the framework and necessary funding are in place to enable 9-1-1 call centers to receive emergency-related voice, text, data, photos, and video.” Rep. Eshoo introduced bipartisan legislation with Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) the bipartisan Next Generation 9-1-1 Advancement Act (H.R. 2629) in July. Specifically, this legislation would provide a total of $250 million for implementation grants to state and local governments over the next five years and establish a framework to support the transition to next-generation 9-1-1 services. Rep. Eshoo is a Co-Chair and founder of the bipartisan, bicameral NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus (formerly the Congressional E-911 Caucus).
09.21.2011	+ SHARE Over 100 House Democrats Join Reps. Eshoo and Peters Effort Urging Speaker Boehner to Abandon Plan to Kill Clean Vehicle Technologies Funding September 21st, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Congressman Gary Peters (D-Mich.) announced that 31 more Democrats have now signed onto the Peters-Eshoo letter demanding that Speaker John Boehner not cut $1.5 billion in proven job-creating loans to the automobile and clean technology industries. On Tuesday, Peters and Eshoo released the letter with 77 of their colleagues, and as of today, a total of 108 members have joined their effort. Additionally, this effort has garnered the support of the environmental groups like the Sierra Club and the League of Conservation Voters, the Auto Alliance like GM, Ford and Chrysler, and labor unions like the United Auto Workers and the United Steelworkers. The House of Representative is expected to vote on the Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution today. “Over 100 Members of Congress have sent a powerful message – ‘don’t sacrifice American ingenuity, American jobs and American fuel efficient cars’ – a bipartisan policy now being turned on its head to pay for disaster relief. Disasters need not be compounded,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo. “This wrong-headed approach will rob our country of a policy and a program that works.” “Hardworking families can see the difference – Democrats are fighting to protect a program that has literally brought jobs from Mexico to Detroit while the Republicans are trying to kill auto jobs,” said Rep. Gary Peters. “We have a growing coalition of industry, labor and environmental groups supporting these loans because we need to improve our economy, but the Tea Party Republicans that we’re up against can’t even say yes to jobs.” In addition, Senator Harry Reid, the Senate Majority Leader, has also an announced during a press conference that “we’re not going to cave in on this as a matter of principle, not only do they give us inadequate funding, but to rub salt in the wound, they take a program that creates jobs to pay for the first year.” Below is the full text of the letter sent originally on Tuesday, September 20th: Dear Speaker Boehner, While we fully support providing emergency funding to those who have been impacted by Hurricane Irene and other natural disasters, we urge you not to pay for disaster relief by cutting programs that are designed to create new jobs and help ensure a strong domestic manufacturing sector. The Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing (ATVM) Loan Program, also known as the Section 136 loan program, was authorized in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 and signed into law by President George W. Bush. The program provides loans to automakers and auto parts manufacturers to help them retool manufacturing facilities in the United States to produce highly fuel efficient, advanced technology vehicles or components. In 2008, Congress approved $7.5 billion of credit subsidy to support $25 billion of loans to promote the production of energy efficient advanced vehicles and component parts. The ATVM program has a demonstrated record of success and job creation. $3.5 billion of credit subsidy has been used to make six loans totaling $9.2 billion that created or saved 41,000 jobs in Tennessee, California, Indiana, Michigan, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, Missouri, and Ohio. It is expected that before the end of the year $2.5 billion will be awarded to eleven more companies in Michigan, Illinois, Ohio, Indiana, and Louisiana creating or saving an additional 35,000 to 40,000 jobs. There are already twelve projects in early stages of due diligence to compete for the remaining available loan authority and the Department of Energy continues to receive new applications every month. These projects could create more than 10,000 jobs, but not if the $1.5 billion cut to the program is signed into law. By 2025, automakers are going to be required to sell cars and trucks that have an average fuel economy of 54.5 mpg. Achieving this increase in fuel economy will require the widespread adaptation of advanced vehicle technologies such as batteries. The ATVM loans are a critical program that will ensure that the domestic auto manufacturers have the capacity to make these technologies here in the United States rather than import them from China and other countries. While the government has a responsibility to fund disaster response in places that were devastated by Hurricane Irene or other natural disasters, it is unconscionable to use funds designed to create jobs in manufacturing states to pay for it. Many of the states that stand to benefit the most from this program are still suffering from higher than average unemployment rates, and are badly in need of the kind of good paying manufacturing jobs these loans will create. The American people expect us to act quickly to create jobs and respond to those harmed by natural disasters. We urge you to advance a Fiscal Year 2011 Continuing Resolution that does not put these two important goals in conflict with one another and preserves funding for the Department of Energy’s ATVM Loan Program. Sincerely, Anna G. Eshoo Gary C. Peters
09.20.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Final Repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell September 20th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today marked the official end to “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” the policy barring gays and lesbians from openly serving in our military. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement: “Today closes the sad chapter of discriminatory policies of the U.S. Armed Forces that caused more than 14,000 service men and women to be discharged. The repeal recognizes that this policy was inconsistent with who we are as a nation and finally eliminates the blatant discrimination against gays and lesbians who have chosen to serve our country in uniform. “With the repeal of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ we finally align our military and our law with the principles of our country, and affirm our bedrock belief in equality for every American.” Eshoo cosponsored the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal Act of 2010 (H.R. 2965), which passed the House by a vote of 250-175 on December 15, 2010.
09.12.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Encourages Students to Apply for Service Academy Nominations September 12th, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced that her office is now accepting applications for nominations to service academies for 2012. To be considered for an appointment to a service academy, an applicant must meet the eligibility requirements established by law and be nominated by an authorized person, including Members of the House of Representatives, Members of the United States Senate or the Vice President’s office. Congressional nominations are required for all service academies, except the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. “Nominating young women and men from the 14th Congressional District to attend our nation’s service academies is always a high honor,” said Eshoo. “Together with the 14th Congressional District Service Academy Review Board, I’m proud to nominate highly-qualified students for appointments to these academies. I encourage each and every interested student in my District to consider applying to one of these prestigious programs.” The Army, Navy, Air Force and Merchant Marine Academies seek qualified high school students from across the country. The selection process is highly competitive and each service academy looks for candidates with strong academic accomplishments, particularly in math and science, leadership skills, and physical aptitude. The law requires that candidates for service academies be at least 17 years old and have not passed their 22nd birthday. Candidates must also be U.S. citizens, unmarried and not have any dependents. Congresswoman Eshoo’s Service Academy Review Board – a group of former service members and other distinguished residents from the 14th Congressional District – reviews the applications and interviews candidates, and provides recommendations to Eshoo, who then sends her nominations to the respective academies. Interested students should write a short letter of interest to Eshoo’s Palo Alto District Office with their contact information as soon as possible. Upon receipt of the letter, Rep. Eshoo’s staff will send a nomination application packet to the student. Completed nomination application packets are due November 18, 2011. A letter of interest should be sent to: Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo Attn: Roderick Bersamina 698 Emerson Street Palo Alto, California 94301 Should students or parents have questions or need more information, they can contact Rep. Eshoo’s Palo Alto District Office at (650) 323-2984.
09.07.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Calls for Nationwide, Interoperable Communications Network for First Responders September 7th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ranking Member on the House Communications and Technology Subcommittee, joined with public safety officials in calling for bipartisan legislation to create a nationwide, interoperable broadband communications network for first responders. Eshoo released the following statement: “On the 10th anniversary of 9/11, a fitting tribute to our first responders, who fought so bravely to save lives and lost their own, is to provide them with a nationwide, interoperable broadband communications network. Congress should act decisively and quickly to address the unacceptable situation which remains in place a decade since the attack on our country. “Other events since that day, including Hurricane Katrina and the Virginia Tech shootings, have continued to highlight why first responders need a nationwide, interoperable network to be able to seamlessly communicate with each other using any device. “I’ve been working with my colleagues to develop bipartisan legislation that will provide first responders with the tools they need to keep our nation safe. With the support of the President, we should pass legislation that will create this communications network. The network must be well-funded, well-managed, and provide our nation’s first responders with a state-of-the-art communications system. We can’t afford to wait any longer.” Among the recommendations made by the 9/11 Commission, and reaffirmed in the 9/11 Commission Tenth Anniversary Report Card released last month, is the need for a nationwide, interoperable communications network. The 9/11 Commission Report Card stated that “the inability of first responders to communicate with each other on demand was a critical failure on 9/11” and called for “the construction of a nationwide, interoperable broadband network.” Seven years after the Commission issued their initial recommendations, and ten years after the attacks on our country, this recommendation has yet to be implemented. Specifically, Eshoo is calling on Congress to pass legislation to fund, build and effectively manage a nationwide public safety network as soon as possible. Currently, several legislative proposals are moving through the House and Senate, including draft legislation by Eshoo and Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Henry Waxman, known as the Public Safety Broadband and Wireless Innovation Act. For more information about Eshoo’s legislation, please click here. Public safety officials joined Eshoo in calling for a nationwide, interoperable public safety network: “Ten years after the attacks on our country, we need to move forward with creating a nationwide, interoperable communications network for police and other first responders,” said San Jose Police Chief Chris Moore, who is also a member of the Public Safety Alliance. “We must have the ability to communicate with each other during emergencies, as well as transmit text and video from crime and accident scenes. This network is long overdue, and I hope that Congress can come together and pass bipartisan legislation to address this growing need. I want to thank Congresswoman Eshoo for her leadership on this important issue – she has consistently worked across the aisle to broker legislation that we can all agree on.” “Ten years after 9/11, the lack of interoperable voice and data communications remains a significant issue for first responders across the country,” said Chief Dennis Burns of the Palo Alto Police Department. “Pending legislation before congress provides an opportunity to create and fund a nationwide broadband network for public safety. Such a network would facilitate coordinated responses to disasters, regional emergencies and mutual aid events. Broadband infrastructure would enhance the abilities of public safety personnel to provide critical services to our communities. I strongly support Congresswoman Eshoo’s continued efforts to improve essential technology for Police, Fire and EMS.”
08.31.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Anna Eshoo Statement on DOJ Filing Antitrust Suit to Block AT&T, T-Mobile Merger August 31st, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), top Democrat on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) filed court papers to block a proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile: “Vigorous competition is a hallmark of the American economy benefitting innovation, benefitting businesses and benefitting consumers. The Department of Justice’s decision today to block the merger of AT&T and T-Mobile based on antitrust concerns reflects my own views of the need for true competition and value to consumers.” In July, Reps. Eshoo, Ed Markey (D-MA), and John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI) sent a letter to the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) asking them to conduct a careful, comprehensive and expeditious review of the proposed AT&T – T-Mobile merger and its potential effects on the mobile wireless marketplace, innovation and consumers across the country. A copy of the letter can be found here.
08.23.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Applauds Approval of Second Fisher House for VA Palo Alto Healthcare System August 23rd, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) applauded Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Eric Shinseki’s decision to approve a second Fisher House for the VA Palo Alto Health Care System (VAPAHCS). Eshoo sent a letter to the Secretary urging his action with other members of the Bay Area Congressional Delegation to help secure a second Fisher House for the VAPAHCS campus. “Palo Alto’s first Fisher House has been a place of comfort, healing and love for service members and their families during times of great distress and hardship,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This home away from home for veterans and their families going through long-term rehabilitation programs has changed their lives. Soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines arrive here unable to walk or talk, but the treatment they receive and the love their families give, makes their recovery that much swifter. A second Fisher House will help to ensure that all eligible families have access to free onsite accommodations, and that no family will be turned away.” Rep. Eshoo continued, “I thank Secretary Shinseki, his staff and the Fisher House Foundation for their work to make this happen, and my Bay Area colleagues for their support for this important project. While the new Fisher House facility is located in Palo Alto, it will benefit all soldiers and families across California and our country.” In 2004, Rep. Eshoo spearheaded the effort in Congress to open the first Fisher House at the Palo Alto VA. Since it opened in 2006, it has served over 3,500 families. The house provides high-quality, temporary lodging for families of active duty military personnel and veterans who are referred to VAPAHCS for specialized impatient and outpatient treatment. With 21 suites, the Palo Alto Fisher House has an occupancy rate of over 98 percent, making it unable to meet the demands of veterans and their families. Since the Palo Alto Fisher House opened, it has maintained a waiting list of 2,165 families, and has had to turn away 894 families. Fortunately, VAPAHCS has donated funds that help families pay local hotel bills and offset some of their commuting costs. The Fisher House Foundation has built 54 houses at military and VA hospitals across the Country, providing housing to more than 12,000 families annually. It strives to create a ”home away from home” feeling similar to the Ronald McDonald Houses, which aid families of seriously ill children. Since 1990, Fisher Houses have served more than 142,000 families, saving them more than $167 million in lodging costs. Eshoo’s letter in support of the Fisher House Foundation can be found here. ###
08.19.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Funding for Felton Covered Bridge August 19th, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced that Caltrans received a National Historic Covered Bridge Preservation grant from the Federal Highway Administration (FHA). Eshoo wrote to the FHA on June 30, 2011, urging their approval of the grant. “Today’s grant to Santa Cruz County to restore the Bridge in Felton will put people to work and restore a national historic landmark,” said Rep. Eshoo. “I’m thrilled for the community because the Federal Highway Administration grant speaks volumes about the importance of this historic bridge and the local community effort to restore it. I will continue to work with the community through the completion of this critical project.” Caltrans has received $ 248,238 from the FHA to repair and restore the Felton Covered Bridge. The Felton Covered Bridge, built in 1892, crosses the San Lorenzo River just south of downtown Felton. This bridge is the tallest covered bridge in the United States, and is a local and national historic treasure, having been added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. In 1982, severe winter storms damaged the bridge. The state and federal governments joined with the local community to fund the bridge’s reconstruction, and in 1988, the project was awarded the National Historic Preservation Award for its craftsmanship, skill and efficiency. The full letter of support is below: June 30, 2011 Mr. Myint Lwin Office of Bridge Technology Federal Highway Administration 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE Washington, DC 20590-0001 Dear Mr. Lwin, I write in strong support of the National Historic Covered Bridge Preservation grant for the County of Santa Cruz, California, to fund the restoration of the Felton Covered Bridge in Felton, California. The Felton Covered Bridge, built in 1892, crosses the San Lorenzo River just south of downtown Felton. This bridge is the tallest covered bridge in the United States and in 1973 it was added to the National Register of Historic Places. In 1982, severe winter storms damaged the bridge. The state and federal governments joined with the local community to fund the reconstruction of the bridge, and in 1988, the project was awarded the National Historic Preservation Award for its craftsmanship and efficiency. The Covered Bridge is again in need of repairs and the requested grant will provide funds for the County to repair this national treasure. Thank you in advance for your attention to this important issue which I ask you to review and give your highest consideration. I look forward to your timely response. ###
08.18.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Caltrain’s Feasibility Analysis August 18th, 2011 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after Caltrain completed preliminary analysis that supports the operational feasibly of a blended system that integrates high-speed rail with a 21st Century Caltrain. “I’m very pleased that Caltrain’s feasibility analysis supports the blended system proposal that I put forward with Senator Simitian and Assemblyman Gordon in April. The preliminary analysis shows a viable path forward that minimizes community impacts by keeping the project substantially within the existing Caltrain right-of-way, avoids unwanted aerial viaducts, and saves taxpayers billions of dollars. There is more work to be done and questions to be answered. I’m hopeful community leaders will take this opportunity to review Caltrain’s analysis and work towards a consensus on this issue which is critical for our region.” ###
08.15.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo and Markey Ask GAO to Conduct Study Into Compatibility, Safety and Reliability of New Wireless Healthcare Technologies August 15th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA), senior members on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office asking the agency to conduct a review of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) actions in regard to wireless medical devices. Specifically, the letter asks GAO to examine whether the FCC is identifying the challenges and risks posted by new medical devices and implants that make use of wireless technology to ensure that such wireless-enabled devices are safe, reliable, and secure, and do not cause harmful interference. An August 5 AFP article reported on a diabetic who was able to reprogram his insulin pump so it could respond to deliver insulin from a stranger’s remote control. “Innovation in broadband and wireless enabled medical devices holds significant promise for improving health and reducing the costs of healthcare for all Americans,” wrote Reps. Eshoo and Markey in the letter. “In bringing forward innovative wireless technologies and devices for healthcare, it’s critical that these devices are able to operate together and with other hospital equipment, and not interfere with each other’s activities and data transmissions. It’s also important that such devices operate in a safe, reliable, and secure manner.” Eshoo serves as the Ranking Member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee and Markey, a former Chairman of the telecommunications subcommittee, currently serves as a senior member of the Subcommittee. ### The full letter to the GAO is below: Mr. Gene L. Dodaro, Comptroller GeneralU.S. Government Accountability Office441 G Street NWWashington, DC 20548 Dear Mr. Dodaro, Innovation in broadband and wireless enabled medical devices holds significant promise for enhancing health and reducing the costs of healthcare for all Americans. By incorporating wireless technologies into medical products, many products that were once tethered to patients, positioned next to hospital beds and located at a nurses’ station are now transportable. This can lead to healthcare improvements such as increasing patient mobility and enabling healthcare professionals to have real-time access to patient data throughout hospitals. In bringing forward innovative wireless technologies and devices for healthcare, it’s critical that these devices are able to operate together and with other hospital equipment, and not interfere with each other’s activities and data transmissions. It’s also important that such devices operate in a safe, reliable, and secure manner. The federal government has a role in providing leadership and encouraging innovation and investment in new healthcare technologies that enable patients, doctors, and other health professionals to access the highest quality care. With respect to wireless enabled medical devices, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is responsible for governing radio devices so as to provide for effective operation and communication, including allocating spectrum and specifying technical requirements to avoid harmful interference between users. The Food and Drug Administration is responsible for protecting the public health and assuring patient safety and effectiveness by regulating medical devices. As senior members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, we would like GAO to report on the extent to which FCC is: 1. Identifying the challenges and risks posed by the proliferation of medical implants and other devices that make use of broadband and wireless technology. 2. Taking steps to improve the efficiency of the regulatory processes applicable to broadband and wireless enabled medical devices. 3. Ensuring wireless enabled medical devices will not cause harmful interference to other equipment. 4. Overseeing such devices to ensure they are safe, reliable, and secure. 5. Coordinating its activities with the Food and Drug Administration. We request that GAO inform the Committee regarding any other issues of concern that it may uncover during its examination of issues related to wireless medical devices. Thank you in advance for your cooperation and attention to this request. Should you have any questions about this request, your staff can contact Erin Katzelnick-Wise at 225-8104 (Eshoo) or Sara Schaumburg at 225-2836 (Markey). Most gratefully, Anna G. Eshoo Edward J. MarkeyMember of Congress Member of Congress
08.01.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Debt Ceiling Vote August 1st, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after voting for passage of S.365, the Budget Control Act of 2011, legislation to raise the debt ceiling of the United States: “I voted today to raise the debt ceiling. Were it not to pass, it would result in a national and international economic catastrophe, and I could never sit by and allow this to happen to our great country. While I’m very disappointed that the plan is not a balanced one, including closing corporate tax loopholes and raising revenue, I accept the fact that compromise is necessary in order to protect our country. “It has been inexcusable for some Members of the House to have created this extended crisis which has raised the anxiety of my constituents, angered others, and caused confidence to plummet. It never had to be this way.” The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) said that the compromise will cut deficits by at least $2.1 trillion over the next 10 years. Specifically, it will immediately cut $917 billion. A Joint Committee of Congress will be tasked with identifying an additional $1.2 trillion in savings to be voted on no later than December 23, 2011.
07.29.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against “Phony” Default Bill July 29th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after voting against the bill offered by Speaker John Boehner (S. 627) to address the debt ceiling crisis: “This is a phony bill. I’m opposed to it and my constituents are opposed to it. It ensures that in a few months, we’ll have to go through this divisive, time-consuming and unproductive exercise once again. House Republicans are playing with fire, creating instability in the markets, and further threatening our national’s credit rating. If they succeed, they will have instituted a new tax on every American in the form of higher-interest rates on credit cards, car payments and mortgages. Since Speaker Boehner walked away from negotiations with President Obama, our nation has already lost $405 billion in aggregate wealth. “Ultimately, Congress will either adopt Senator Reid’s bill, reach a different bipartisan compromise, or the President will have to invoke the 14th Amendment to save our economy and prevent economic catastrophe. We’re inching closer to financial Armageddon and today’s phony bill wasted precious time.” Background: Boehner’s proposal cuts $917 in discretionary spending immediately, then requires the establishment of a “Joint Select Committee” to find $1.6 trillion in other cuts—and no new revenues—before raising the debt ceiling again. The plan also requires the adoption of a farcical balanced budget amendment by both Houses of Congress before considering the second, and unavoidable, debt ceiling increase.
07.29.2011	+ SHARE House Passes Eshoo Bill to Protect Religious Minorities July 29th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives today approved bipartisan legislation sponsored by Rep. Frank Wolf (R-VA) and Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) to create a special envoy at the U.S. State Department for religious minorities in the Near East and South Central Asia. The legislation was introduced in January in the wake of increasing violence, targeted attacks and heightened discrimination against Christians in Iraq and Egypt, and persistent concerns in Afghanistan and Pakistan, among other nations. Wolf, co-chairman of the bipartisan Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission, said threats against religious minorities have been increasing in recent months and that the United States has an obligation to speak out for the voiceless, to develop policies to protect and preserve these communities, and to prioritize these issues in broader U.S. foreign policy. The commission held a hearing in January on the recent spate of attacks and the ongoing persecution of Christians in Iraq and Egypt. Commission members heard testimony about the increasing sectarian tensions in the two countries and the need for greater U.S. attention to the plight of religious minorities. “The U.S. government needs an individual who can respond and focus on the critical situation of religious minorities in these countries whose basic human rights are increasingly under assault,” Wolf said. “If the international community fails to speak out, the prospects for religious pluralism and tolerance in the region are bleak.” Rep. Eshoo, who co-chairs the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus with Wolf, has long pressed the State Department to develop a comprehensive policy to address the unique needs of the ancient ethno-religious faith communities in Iraq, a policy which recognizes that these indigenous communities are not simply the victims of generalized violence in Iraq but are facing targeted violence, which is forcing them to flee the lands they’ve inhabited for centuries. “In a time of partisanship and polarization, it’s gratifying when members from both parties can come together to address the humanitarian crisis that’s been unfolding in the Middle East, and has not been given the attention it deserves,” Eshoo said. “As the daughter of Assyrian and Armenian immigrants who fled the slaughter of Christians in the Middle East, it’s terrifying to see history repeating itself in today’s Iraq. I’m hopeful that the special envoy created by this legislation will elevate the crisis of the Middle East’s religious minorities, giving them the diplomatic attention they so badly need and deserve.” The bill now moves to the Senate for consideration. More information on the measure is available at wolf.house.gov.
07.29.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Fuel Economy Standards Agreement July 29th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after President Obama, automakers, the State of California and environmental groups announced an agreement on setting fuel economy standards at 54.5 mpg by 2025: “California has always led the nation on environmental standards, and today’s agreement is no exception. That government, industry and environmental groups were able to work together and make an impressive commitment to our future is exciting news. The new fuel economy standards will save consumers’ money and reduce our dangerous dependence on foreign oil. Our nation must be at the forefront of clean energy advances and today marks a giant step forward. Being chained to the past is a bad place to be.” The standards announced today are expected to save the U.S. four billion barrels of oil, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2 billion metric tons, and promote alternative fuel vehicles such as electric vehicles. As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Eshoo has consistently fought for policies that will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels, including sponsoring legislation to increase electric vehicle deployment.
07.28.2011	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Lance and Sens. Alexander, Bennet Introduce Bipartisan PREEMIE Act July 28th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ), together with Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Michael Bennet (D-CO), introduced the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act, to expand research, education and intervention activities related to preterm birth. This legislation will specifically help reduce preterm birth, prevent newborn death and disability caused by premature birth, and expand research into the causes of preterm birth. It also will promote the development, availability, and uses of evidence-based standards of care for pregnant women. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation will reauthorize the legislation signed into law in December 2006. “This legislation will help identify the causes of premature births, and work to prevent them,” Rep. Anna G. Eshoo said. “Every year, half a million babies are born too early and this effort will help to reduce these numbers. I hope this bill will prevent the heartache that so many families suffer from today.” “Each year more than half a million babies are born prematurely. Although the medical community has made great strides in identifying the many risk factors associated with premature births, too many premature births today have no known cause. The reauthorization of the PREEMIE Act is an important bipartisan effort that will provide continued research, education and intervention of prematurity and low birth weight. It’s our hope that this bill will ultimately decrease the number of premature births in the near future,” said Rep. Leonard Lance. “This bill will allow the scientists and doctors researching premature births to continue working to determine what causes this serious problem and how it can be prevented,” said Sen. Lamar Alexander. “With an average of 236 premature babies a week born in Tennessee, there’s still more progress to be made.” “Preterm birth is the leading cause of newborn death and is more common in the United States than many other developed countries, but there is still so much we don’t know about it,” said Sen. Michael Bennet. “This bipartisan effort is an important step to reduce preterm births, prevent disabilities associated with preterm births and protect some of our youngest and most vulnerable.” “The March of Dimes applauds the leadership of Senators Lamar Alexander (R-TN) and Michael Bennet (D-CO) and Representatives Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and Leonard Lance (R-NJ) for their introduction of the PREEMIE Reauthorization Act, a bill to advance our understanding of the causes of preterm birth and drive treatment and prevention,” said Dr. Jennifer L. Howse, President of the March of Dimes. “Renewal of the 2006 PREEMIE Act is a vital component of March of Dimes’ comprehensive efforts across the country to reduce the number of infant deaths and childhood disabilities caused by premature birth, which is estimated to cost our society $26 billion a year. We are making progress – preterm birth rates have dropped for three consecutive years. The PREEMIE Reauthorization Act will build upon this momentum and provide us with new tools and knowledge to improve the lives and health of America’s mothers and children.” This year in the U.S. alone, approximately 28,000 babies will die before their first birthday, 36 percent of those from pre-term birth complications. In addition to being the leading cause of newborn death, premature birth can cause a lifetime of health challenges and intellectual disabilities for those children who do survive. According to the Institute of Medicine (IOM), the annual societal costs associated with preterm birth were $26.2 billion in 2005 or $51,600 per infant born preterm. Nearly two-thirds of this $26.2 billion estimate was spent on medical care, and this number does not even include the cost of medical care beyond early childhood or caretaker costs such as lost wages. This legislation is supported by the March of Dimes Foundation, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the Association of Women’s Health, and Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses.
07.28.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo, Markey: We Must Protect Our Children In The Case Of A Disaster July 28th, 2011 WASHINGTON, D.C – Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.) and Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), senior members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, secured passage of improvements to our nation’s capability to meet the needs of children in the case of a disaster or a public health emergency. With bipartisan support, the House Energy and Commerce Committee passed a reauthorization of H.R. 2405, the Pandemic and All Hazards Preparedness Act, a bill which established the nation’s foundation for public health and emergency preparedness. The new Eshoo and Markey-authored provisions will help to ensure that hospitals are prepared to handle a surge of pediatric patients in the event of an emergency and that our nation’s emergency stockpile contains the medical treatments necessary for children. “Children are among the most vulnerable in our country and they deserve special attention in the event of a public health emergency,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The provisions we authored will bring transparency and accountability to disaster programs. While I pray that we never need these medical countermeasures for our children, I’m confident that we’re working towards full-preparedness for all our citizens, especially the youngest among us.” “When it comes to our nation’s preparedness for emergencies or disasters, children’s unique needs should not be relegated to the kids table,” said Rep. Markey. “This legislation rightly puts the needs of pediatric populations at the main table, ensuring that our emergency stockpiles and hospitals are prepared to handle a spike in demand for pediatric medical care.” Although children represent nearly 25 percent of the U.S. population, the nation is unprepared to address their needs fully in the case of a disaster or public health emergency. According to the National Commission on Children and Disaster 2010 Report, the Strategic National Stockpile (SNS), intended to provide the public with medicine and medical supplies in the event of a public health emergency, “is woefully under-stocked with medical countermeasures for children.” Specifically, the provisions authored by Reps. Eshoo and Markey would: • Improve hospital preparedness to deal with a spike in pediatric patients. The bill amends the Hospital Preparedness Program, which provides grants to enhance hospital emergency preparedness, to state that grant applicants should have the capacity to handle a sudden and steep increase in the number of pediatric patients being treated in their emergency rooms in the event of an emergency. • Identify gaps in the Strategic National Stockpile and develop a plan to address them. The bill instructs the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness Response (ASPR) to identify pediatric gaps in the SNS, intended to provide the public with medicine and medical supplies in the event of an emergency, and to develop a plan to address those gaps. The ASPR will provide an annual progress report to Congress. • Expand the availability of pediatric countermeasures. Accelerate the development of medical countermeasures, including for pediatric populations, by strengthening the Federal Drug Administration’s role in reviewing products for national security priorities. Children’s smaller and developing bodies make them particularly vulnerable to certain biological, chemical, radiological, and nuclear threats. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, for example, children breathe more rapidly and thus would ingest or inhale relatively larger doses of threatening or hazardous substances. Children also require different medications and medical devices than adults, such as appropriately-sized auto-injectors or face masks. In a letter to Energy and Commerce Chairman Fred Upton (D-Mich.) and Ranking Member Henry Waxman (D-Calif.), Dr. O. Marion Burton, President of the American Academy of Pediatrics, expressed appreciation for the legislation. “We would also like to commend the leadership of Representatives Anna Eshoo and Ed Markey for language in the bill related to the needs of pediatric populations in the Countermeasure Implementation Plan as well as language that helps address the preparedness and surge capacity of hospitals for pediatric and other at-risk populations.”
07.28.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo, House Democrats Urge President Obama to Sign Executive Order July 28th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) sent a letter signed by more than sixty House Members to President Obama expressing strong support for his Draft Executive Order to require companies receiving taxpayer dollars to disclose their political expenditures. “Any business that is paid with taxpayer dollars, should be required to disclose their political expenditures to the taxpayers. With public dollars come public responsibilities,” Rep. Eshoo said. “In the aftermath of the Citizens United decision, it’s even more important today to stand up for transparency and disclosure. That’s why House Democrats are urging the President to sign his Executive Order today. We will stand with the President for transparency.” Rep. Eshoo has been a strong advocate of requiring companies receiving federal dollars to disclose political activity. In February, she offered an amendment to H.R. 1 that mirrors the President’s Draft Executive Order which became public in April. In reaction to the Draft Order and Rep. Eshoo’s proposal, Republicans have attached four riders to appropriations bills to prohibit any disclosure requirements whatsoever. Each time, Eshoo has led the opposition to the riders, and offered her own amendment to require campaign disclosure. Each time, Republicans have blocked the amendment from being voted on. The letter was signed by sixty-two House Members. The full letter sent to President Obama is below and attached: Dear President Obama, Many Members of the House have contacted you in support of your Draft Executive Order, dated April 13, 2011, on the disclosure of political spending by those who do business with the federal government. Today, we once again offer our full support. We stand ready to work with you on this important accountability measure for taxpayers, confident that more transparency, not less, places us on the right side of history. The transparency we support is already required around the country. In fact, forms of contractor political spending are actually banned in Connecticut, New Jersey, West Virginia, Hawaii, and elsewhere. At the federal level, since 1994, the Securities and Exchange Commission has prohibited brokers and dealers of municipal securities and their PACs, from making campaign contributions to bond-issuing officials, and requires disclosure of their campaign contributions to maximize transparency. The rule was challenged and upheld in Federal Court, and remains in force today. Republican opposition to transparency is both disheartening and puzzling. Republicans once supported disclosure. In 2000, Senator Mitch McConnell asked, “Why would a little disclosure be better than a lot of disclosure?” In 2007, John Boehner said on Meet the Press, “I think what we ought to do is we ought to have full disclosure, full disclosure of all the money that we raise and how it is spent. And I think sunlight is the best disinfectant.” Today, they lead the fight against these sensible reforms. Fortunately, even in the Citizens United decision which struck down limits on corporate spending, the Supreme Court, voting 8-1, specifically endorsed disclosure. Justice Kennedy, writing for the majority, states: “The First Amendment protects political speech and disclosure permits citizens and shareholders to react to the speech of corporate entities in a proper way. This transparency enables the electorate to make informed decisions and give proper weight to different speakers and messages.” Adhering to that principle, disclosure will not politicize the procurement process–it will improve it. Political expenditures are already well-known to those that make them and to the officials who benefit. With disclosure, the public will have access to this information as well, allowing them to judge whether contracts were awarded based on merit. A meritorious procurement system is the only responsible use of taxpayer money, making this a deficit reduction effort as much as a campaign finance reform issue. We encourage you to respond forcefully to these and other distortions leveled against your Draft Order and the cause of disclosure. Sunlight remains the best disinfectant, and there is nothing partisan about finally shining light on this dark corner of our political system. We believe that with public funds come public responsibilities, and anyone benefitting from taxpayer money has the responsibility to be fully transparent.
07.26.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights to Promote Pipeline Safety July 26th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) spoke on the House floor in support of her amendment to the North American-Made Energy Security Act (H.R. 1938). Eshoo’s amendment would require U.S. Department of Transportation Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration (PHMSA) to complete a comprehensive study and review the hazardous liquid pipeline regulations before a final Presidential Permit is issued. This legislation comes less than a year after the San Bruno natural gas explosion. Rep. Eshoo spoke on the House floor early this afternoon in support of her amendment: “Pipeline safety is not a subject we can afford to take lightly. On September 10, 2010, a natural gas explosion in San Bruno, California … just north of my Congressional District and in Congresswoman Speier’s district … killed eight people, injured dozens, and destroyed 55 homes. This is from a natural gas explosion. “Since 1938, Congress has attempted to promote natural gas pipeline safety but the horrific explosions like the one in San Bruno continue to occur every year someplace in our country. It’s a dangerous business under the best of circumstances. To move forward with a tar sands pipeline, which we have little experience regulating, without a solid understanding of the safety issues, is an enormous and, I think, dangerous mistake. We have heard strong, well-informed concerns that pipelines carrying tar sands and the chemical bitumen may pose greater safety risks than even those pipelines carrying conventional or synthetic crude. “On June 16 of this year, during an Energy and Power Subcommittee hearing on pipeline safety, Cynthia Quarterman, Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, known as PHMSA … testified that her agency, specifically tasked with researching and administering pipeline safety, has not analyzed the risks of these new pipelines. Ms. Quarterman replied that the agency would be pleased to make such a review. I think the American people would be happier, and safer, if they did. “My amendment would require PHMSA to complete a comprehensive review of the properties and characteristics of bitumen and the hazardous liquid pipeline regulations before a final Presidential Permit is issued. I think this study is very, very important for the safety of all Americans and will determine whether current regulations are sufficient to regulate pipelines used for the transportation of tar sands crude oil. This approach makes sense because it’s far less costly to build pipelines correctly than to try to fix or replace a line that’s already built. “The explosion that occurred in san Bruno, and the he recent oil spills that have occurred, particularly the spills from TransCanada’s Keystone pipeline – – which leaked 21,000 gallons of crude in North Dakota – – are a warning to all of us that we need to get this right. “So let’s protect lives, money and property, and take the proper precautions now. For these reasons, I urge all of my colleagues in the House to support my amendment.”
07.22.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Reiterates Support for Action to Stop Immigrant Deportations July 22nd, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced she sent a letter along with other Members of Congress to President Obama urging him to fight against the HALT Act, legislation recently introduced that would prevent Obama from using his already-existing executive powers to suspend deportations of undocumented immigrants who would have benefited under DREAM Act, have family members who are U.S. Citizens or are serving in the military, or whose circumstances warrant leniency or special consideration. “I am the proud daughter of immigrants, and it breaks my heart to hear of families pulled apart by our broken immigration system,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Families shouldn’t be treated like a political football. I support Presidential action to stop existing deportations of those who would have benefited from legislation like the DREAM Act. These are families, these are bright young students, and these are people whose loved ones serve in the military. They are not criminals. “The President has the ability to target immigration enforcement towards the worst criminals and security threats, rather than families. But legislation pending in Congress would take those powers away. That isn’t right, and it isn’t fair to the families it would break apart. It’s time for the President to take action, and I stand ready to support him when he does.” Rep. Eshoo sent the letter, along with 61 other Members of Congress, to President Obama. The full text of the letter sent is below: Dear Mr. President: The so-called HALT Act (H.R. 2497), proposed legislation with the dubious title the “Hinder the Administration’s Legalization Temptation” Act, is a direct attack on your judgment, knowledge of the law, and ability to apply the laws of the United States firmly and equitably for the benefit of the American people. We, the undersigned, want it to be absolutely, crystal clear that we stand with you against such deceitful, mean-spirited, and partisan attacks. Regardless of our varying views on the complex issue of immigration and how to reform the current system, we feel the introduction of this legislation by leaders of the Republican Party is an attack on your integrity that should not pass unnoticed or unopposed. The HALT Act would rescind powers granted by Congress to the Executive to target immigration enforcement resources at the worst criminals, drug dealers, gangsters, and security threats by taking away all of the prosecutorial discretion you possess under the law. It restricts the ability of our immigration enforcement system to take the particular circumstances of any individual — or the circumstances of any particular group or nationality — into consideration when determining who is a priority for deportation or other penalty under our immigration laws. However, the proposed legislation would not alter the powers of the Executive Branch permanently, but rather only until the day after the next presidential inauguration, January 21, 2013. One of the authors of the bill recently wrote, “While this authority is justifiable when used responsibly on a case-by-case basis, it’s clear the Obama Administration plans not to use but to abuse these powers.” Tying your hands and that of our law enforcement and border security authorities in order to score political points is a new low. It brings new meaning to the term “playing politics,” but in this case has severe consequences for national security and community safety. After the devastating earthquake in Haiti, you determined that a temporary suspension of deportations to Haiti was in the best interest of the American people and the Haitian people. You were absolutely correct in that determination, yet that power would be suspended by the new bill, if it passes, until the day after the next inauguration. In certain circumstances, your Administration has legally set deportation or other immigration penalties aside when it is in the best interest of the American people. For example, when a deportable alien has family members that are U.S. citizens — including active duty military — who would face extreme hardship if a deportation went forward and the particular circumstances warrant leniency or special consideration, your Administration has made such determinations. Yet the powers you have exercised cautiously on a limited and case-by-case basis, would be suspended by the new bill, if it passes, until the day after the next inauguration. We, the undersigned, support you in your efforts to apply the law and exercise sound judgment to determine what is in the best interest of the American people so that our nation is prosperous and safe.
07.21.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Passing of Councilmember Ron Swegles July 21st, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement upon learning of the passing of Sunnyvale City Councilmember Ron Swegles: “It was with a heavy heart that I heard the news of Councilmember Ron Swegles’ passing. He was a treasured colleague, a true friend, and a dedicated Councilmember and Mayor of his beloved community of Sunnyvale. “I extend my sympathy to Ron’s wife, children and grandchildren, and to the entire City he served so well.”
07.20.2011	+ SHARE FCC, Dept. of Justice: Close Scrutiny of Proposed AT&T – T-Mobile Merger Needed July 20th, 2011 WASHINGTON D.C. – Today, Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), and John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) asked the Department of Justice (DOJ) and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to conduct a careful, comprehensive and expeditious review of the proposed AT&T – T-Mobile merger and its potential effects on the mobile wireless broadband market, innovation and consumers across the country. The FCC recently released its annual report on wireless competition, finding that the wireless phone market has grown more concentrated over the years. “We believe that AT&T’s acquisition of T-Mobile would be a troubling backward step in federal public policy – a retrenchment from nearly two decades of promoting competition and open markets to acceptance of a duopoly in the wireless marketplace,” write Reps. Markey, Conyers and Eshoo in the letter. “Such industry consolidation could reduce competition and increase consumer costs at a time our country can least afford it.” Rep. Markey is a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and former chairman of the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. Rep. Conyers is the Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee. Rep. Eshoo is Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. The letter to the Department of Justice and Federal Communications Commission can be found HERE .
07.15.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against Bill Gutting Investments to Clean-Energy Technology Programs July 15th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted against H.R. 2354, the Fiscal Year 2011 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. The bill slashes funding for clean energy efficiency and research programs, as well as steep cuts to flood control and environmental cleanup programs. The legislation fails to protect communities and jeopardizes American innovation and job creation. According to the Brookings Institution, the nation’s clean economy, defined as goods and services with an environmental benefit, employs about 2.7 million people – more than twice the size of the fossil-fuel industry – and nearly 320,000 in California alone. “The last place to cut is in the area of investments in clean energy technologies,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Our nation has the capacity to lead the world in clean energy technologies, lowering gas prices for families and increasing our energy independence. Hobbling our future is neither fiscally smart or policy-wise.” H.R. 2354, the FY 2012 Energy and Water Appropriations Act (as passed out of Committee): o Science: The bill cuts $43 million from the current funding level. The DOE office of Science works on basic energy research, nuclear physics, chemistry, biological and environmental sciences, fusion and other related endeavors. The Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC) is funded through this office. o Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy (ARPA-E): The bill cuts $80 million (44%) from the current funding level. ARPA-E programs support breakthrough domestic clean energy innovators. Several companies in Silicon Valley have received funding through this program. Rep. Eshoo was an original cosponsor of the legislation that created ARPA-E. o Fuel Efficient Vehicle Technologies: The bill cuts $46 million from the current funding level. These funds are used to improve fuel efficiency with better engines, better batteries and engines that burn clean, domestic fuel. The bill also reduces Advanced Vehicle Technology Deployment, a program which expands electric transportation initiatives which Rep. Eshoo has championed, by more than $200 million. o Army Corps of Engineers: The bill cuts $89 million from the current funding level. Our ports, harbors, navigational channels, and locks depend on these funds to maintain our infrastructure. o Solar Energy: The bill cuts $97 million from the current funding level. The DOE solar energy technology office is focused on developing our domestic solar R&D, manufacturing, and installation industries. o Building Technologies: The bill cuts $61 million from the current funding level. These funds are used to research energy-efficient technologies in buildings which account for roughly 40% of all U.S. energy use. o Biomass Research and Development: The bill cuts $33 million from the current funding level. The DOE Biomass Program is helping transform the nation’s renewable biomass resources into cost-competitive, high-performance biofuels, bioproducts, and biopower. o Weatherization Assistance: The bill cuts $141 million from the current funding level. This will cut, by nearly 30,000, the families that get help to make their homes more energy efficient and save money on their energy bills compared to the President’s budget. o Clean Water Rider: The bill prevents the Army Corps of Engineers from updating regulations and relevant regulatory guidance under the Clean Water Act, as called for by the Supreme Court. The bill endorses the status quo of confusion and delay in the approval and construction of vital public works projects. To see additional cuts that were passed during the amendment process, please click here. The bill is opposed by the League of Conservation Voters, Natural Resources Defense Council, Environment America, The Wilderness Society, Clean Water Action, Defenders of Wildlife, Union of Concerned Scientists, Chesapeake Bay Foundation, American Rivers, American Hiking Society, and Center for Biological Diversity.
07.14.2011	+ SHARE Ranking Members Waxman, Eshoo Release Discussion Draft of the Public Safety Broadband and Wireless Innovation Act July 14th, 2011 WASHINGTON, DC — Today, Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, and Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, circulated a discussion draft of the Public Safety Broadband and Wireless Innovation Act. This legislation would create a nationwide, interoperable public safety broadband network. It would also provide the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) with incentive auction authority to efficiently and responsibly repurpose broadcast spectrum and help fund the public safety network. Among its other provisions, it would require federal agencies to conduct a comprehensive spectrum inventory and create a federal spectrum strategic plan. “The draft legislation reflects our view on how we can best help our nation meet its current and future needs for wireless broadband spectrum and address the pressing need to provide public safety with advanced communications capabilities,” said Rep. Waxman. “There are important differences between our approach and the Republicans’, but I hope that we will be able to work together to develop a bipartisan consensus.” “Democrats and Republicans have been working towards a common goal – to put forward much-needed legislation to address our nation’s growing need for spectrum and to provide first responders with a nationwide, interoperable broadband network,” said Rep. Eshoo. “While much work remains to address these very real needs, I remain optimistic that we can produce a bipartisan bill. I believe we need to come together for our first responders, innovators, and the American people. Rep. Eshoo continued, “What needs to be in any final legislation is straightforward. We need a nationwide public safety network with a strong governance structure that leverages the commercial sector, as well as provisions that drive cost-efficient devices. We also need flexible voluntary incentive auctions authority that can free up spectrum for wireless broadband for the foreseeable future. I also hope that final legislation address our nation’s 9-1-1 call centers and the long-term potential of unlicensed spectrum for our economy. The draft that I released today with Ranking Member Waxman accomplishes those goals, and I look forward to continuing the discussions with my Republican colleagues.” The discussion draft text and summary are posted on the Committee website or can be emailed upon request.
07.12.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes Republican Efforts to Repeal Energy and Cost Saving Light Bulb Legislation July 12th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted against H.R. 2417, Republican legislation to repeal light bulb efficiency standards that will save consumers billions of dollars every year. The standards, enacted in 2007, with bipartisan support in Congress and signed into law by President George W. Bush, requires new light bulbs to be about 30% more efficient than traditional incandescent light bulbs. The new standards do not ban incandescent light bulbs. “Instead of focusing on creating jobs, helping our struggling economy or fixing the debt ceiling, Republicans are once again trying to repeal bipartisan legislation that they were for before they were against it,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The dubiously-named ‘Better Use for Light Bulbs Act’ is another do-nothing bill opposed by consumer groups, utilities, the Obama Administration, unions, environmental groups, and even the light bulb industry itself. I’ll continue to fight for policies that save consumers money, encourage domestic innovation, and promote smart energy efficiency policies. This bill accomplishes none of these goals or positive outcomes.” Lighting accounts for about 12% of energy use in homes and it is estimated that the lighting standards will save the average family in California $124 in energy costs each year. According to the Department of Energy, the standards could collectively save nearly $6 billion in U.S. households in 2015 alone. The U.S. lighting manufacturing industry has already spent millions to produce and sell these energy efficient bulbs, and they support the bipartisan standards that created regulatory certainty and domestic innovation. Previously, on Friday, July 8th, Rep. Eshoo and other Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent a letter to Chairmen Upton and Whitfield objecting to the placement of the BULB Act on the suspension calendar, and ignoring regular order. Please see below for the full letter: The Honorable Fred Upton Chairman Committee on Energy and Commerce U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 The Honorable Ed Whitfield Chairman Subcommittee on Energy and Power U.S. House of Representatives 2125 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Upton and Chairman Whitfield: We are writing to object to placing H.R. 2417, which would repeal provisions in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 relating to light bulbs, on the suspension calendar next week. If you would like the House to act upon this legislation, we request that the Committee proceed with regular order on the legislation. In 2007, this Committee adopted standards to make incandescent light bulbs more efficient on a bipartisan voice vote, and members from both sides of the aisle spoke in favor. Legislation to repeal these provisions should be thoroughly examined by the Committee prior to consideration by the House. H.R. 2417 was introduced earlier this week on July 6, 2011. Obviously, the Committee has not had the opportunity to hold hearings on the legislation. Moreover, the Committee has not held any hearing – legislative or oversight – on the subject matter of the legislation. We urge you to continue the Committee on Energy and Commerce’s long history of open debate by adhering to the tenets of regular order. Thank you for your consideration of our request.
07.07.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Floor Statement on Amendment Requiring Disclosure of Federal Contractors’ Political Activity July 7th, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) spoke on the House floor in support of her amendment to the legislation funding the Department of Defense. Her amendment would require any corporation or business entity awarded a federal contract to disclose its political expenditures. The amendment was ruled out of order. Click here to watch Rep. Eshoo’s statement. “Mr. Chairman, I rise for the third time this year to call for transparency in our political system. This appropriation bill will spend hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars next year, and a huge portion of it, a portion that’s impossible to quantify, will go to contractors. Some are small, others rank among the world’s largest companies. As we meet today, the workforce of contractors in Afghanistan is the same size as the workforce of uniformed personnel there. And since 2005, we’ve spent approximately $12 billion on contractors in Afghanistan. “And today, there are more private contractors – listen up everyone – there are more private contractors than uniformed personnel in Iraq, and we’ve spent $112 billion on contractors in Iraq since 2005. “The federal government does business with thousands of contractors who receive billions of dollars in taxpayer money. They should be required to disclose their spending, and that’s what my amendment will accomplish. “In 2002, when we voted to pass the historic McCain-Feingold campaign finance bill, most Republicans voted no, saying we needed disclosure, not soft money restrictions. They said we needed to put spending out in the open and let the voters assess it. Today, when the President proposes requiring contractors to simply disclose their spending, not to limit it, Republicans are up in arms. “They say it will politicize the contracting process. But when contractors can spend money in elections, the contracting process is already politicized. My amendment is modest and it’s simple: it will bring this information out into the open, and let the public decide for themselves. The public deserves to know what happens with their tax money. “Mr. Speaker, this is not a revolutionary idea. For the last 17 years, the SEC requires bond dealers to limit their campaign contributions to the officials in cities that issue bonds. It requires them to disclose their contributions, providing the public with transparency. The rule was challenged and upheld in Court, and my amendment really adheres to the same principle. To quote Senator Mitch McConnell from 2003, “Why would a little disclosure be better than a lot of disclosure? I agree with Senator McConnell. “With public dollars come public responsibilities. Disclosure would fulfill this responsibility. “I urge my colleagues to support this amendment, and I yield back the balance of my time.”
06.23.2011	+ SHARE U.S. Department of Transportation, Eshoo Announce $16 Million Grant for California’s Rail Network June 23rd, 2011 WASHINGTON – U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood today announced the California High-Speed Rail Authority (CHSRA) can now begin spending a $16 million grant that will support safety and scheduling improvements on the heavily traveled San Francisco to San Jose corridor. The money will pay for the design of a positive train control (PTC) technology system that increases railroad safety and efficiency by monitoring and controlling train movements, which will help integrate California’s rail network with high-speed passenger service. “Keeping people safe is our top priority and positive train control technology will ensure California’s rail network transports passengers more safely and efficiently than ever before,” said Secretary LaHood. “This comprehensive safety technology will improve passenger service along the highly-traveled corridor between San Francisco and San Jose and will ultimately benefit the entire high-speed rail system in California.” The grant will enable the CHSRA and the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board to develop a system that will improve schedule management along the dominant San Francisco-San Jose corridor and by extension, help improve train schedules along the entire California railroad network. In addition, the grant will be used to design a PTC system that will accommodate the existing 52-mile corridor and provide support for high-speed trains. PTC also keeps passengers and railroad workers safer by maintaining safe train separations preventing non-compliance with train speed limits, protecting roadway workers in authorized work zones and providing protection against train movement over misaligned switches. Once installed, the San Francisco-San Jose system will meet the congressionally-mandated provisions of the Rail Safety Improvement Act of 2008. Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), who has been working with the Department of Transportation to secure this vital funding, welcomed Transportation Secretary LaHood’s announcement: “This is great news for Peninsula residents. This technology will improve Caltrain’s safety and efficiency,” said Rep. Anna Eshoo. “This this is an important first step in making Caltrain a 21st century transportation system.” Other members of the federal working group also released statements of support for this funding: “This $16 million in federal funds means faster commutes for our constituents,” said Rep. Michael Honda. “As a Member of the House Budget Committee and the House Appropriations Committee, I recognize that the only way for America to get back to work is for our nation to invest in a 21st century transportation system that will get us there. Improving Caltrain and laying the ground work for high-speed rail has a direct, positive impact on my constituents, and these federal funds show that their hard-earned tax dollars are being efficiently and effectively returned to their communities in visible and meaningful ways.” “As our country’s highways and roads grow more congested, we desperately need to invest in alternative forms of transportation,” noted Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-San Jose). “I support the Federal Rail Administration’s efforts to modernize America’s rails, and this is a step towards more efficient, safer, and faster rail travel. It’s investments like these that are going to keep America competitive as the load on our transportation infrastructure continues to grow.” “With this investment, we continue to improve California’s public transportation services, creating good jobs, reducing traffic and pollution, and contributing to the health and vitality of California’s economy,” said Rep. Garamendi. “I thank all those responsible for their valiant work in making this dream a reality.” “The decision of the FRA is the right choice for our time because scarce dollars will be used for the best purpose—increasing safety on the vital Caltrain corridor,” said Rep. Jackie Speier. Thirty-two states across the U.S. and the District of Columbia are currently laying the foundation for high-speed rail corridors to link Americans with faster and more energy-efficient travel options. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and annual appropriations have, to date, provided $10.1 billion to put America on track towards providing new and expanded rail access to communities and improving the reliability, speed, and frequency of existing service. Of that, more than $5.8 billion dollars has already been obligated for rail projects. A strict “Buy America” requirement for high-speed rail projects ensures that U.S. manufacturers and workers will receive the maximum economic benefits from this federal investment. In 2009, Secretary LaHood secured a commitment from 30 foreign and domestic rail manufacturers to employ American workers and locate or expand their base of operations in the U.S. if they are selected for high-speed-rail contracts.
06.22.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Improve Consumer Information on 4G June 22nd, 2011 Eshoo: Consumers Deserve to Know If They’re Getting What They Pay For Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), top Democrat on the U.S. House of Representatives’ Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, introduced the Next Generation Wireless Disclosure Act. As more consumers use their smartphones, tablets and other wireless devices to stream video and other data-intensive apps and services, speed really matters. Americans are excited about the latest generation of advanced wireless broadband, commonly referred to as “4G,” but without a standard definition of the technology, consumers often experience vastly different speeds depending on the wireless provider and location. This legislation aims to ensure that consumers have complete and accurate information about the speed of 4G service before committing to a plan. The bill also helps consumers understand network reliability, coverage and pricing. “Consumers deserve to know exactly what they’re getting for their money when they sign-up for a 4G data plan,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The wireless industry has invested billions to improve service coverage, reliability and data speeds, and consumers demand for 4G is expected to explode. But consumers need to know the truth about the speeds they’re actually getting. My legislation is simple – it will establish guidelines for understanding what 4G speed really is, and ensure that consumers have all the information they need to make an informed decision.” Specifically, the legislation would provide consumers with the following information at the point of sale and in all billing materials: Guaranteed minimum data speed Network reliability Coverage area maps Pricing Technology used to provide 4G service Network conditions that can impact the speed of applications and services used on the network. The legislation also requires the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to evaluate the speed and price of 4G wireless data service provided by the top ten U.S. wireless carriers in order to provide consumers with access to a side-by-side comparison in their service area. Rep. Eshoo continued, “Consumers want faster, more reliable wireless data service, and I look forward to working with industry and consumer groups to achieve this goal. We need to enhance transparency and ensure consumers are fully informed before they commit to a long-term service contract.” Several groups have announced their support of the legislation to make it easier for consumers to have all the information necessary to make smart decisions when choosing a wireless data plan: Parul P. Desai, Policy Counsel for Consumers Union, the nonprofit publisher of Consumer Reports, said, “The Eshoo bill will empower consumers who are shopping for wireless broadband service. It will help people cut through the clutter so we can compare prices and options, and we can better understand what really constitutes 4G data service. Right now, there aren’t a lot of consumer protections for mobile broadband customers, and the Eshoo bill would help ensure consumers have certain rights and information when they sign up for a plan.” “I commend Congresswoman Eshoo for introducing legislation that gives consumers more clear and concise information about the mobile broadband services they are buying,” stated Sascha Meinrath, Director of the New America Foundation’s Open Technology Initiative. “Today, more than ever, as mobile broadband providers employ Orwellian doublespeak advertising that tout ‘unlimited plans’ that are in fact not unlimited and market ‘4g’ speeds in terms of ‘lightning fast’ and ‘supercharged,’ transparency rules that provide consumers with basic information regarding the actual price, minimum speed, and plain language terms of service are desperately needed.” “This bill might not have been necessary if there were enough competition in the wireless market, but there isn’t,” said Andrew Schwartzman, Senior Vice President and Policy Director for the Media Access Project. “Representative Eshoo is performing an important service by making sure that wireless companies give consumers accurate and useful information.” “This much-needed legislation will require mobile providers to clearly and prominently disclose terms and conditions of their “4G” service in marketing materials, at the point of sale, and in monthly bills,” said Gigi B. Sohn, President of Public Knowledge. “This legislation will empower consumers to make more informed decisions on their choice of wireless service, and this increased transparency within the mobile space will enable consumers to better understand a product before committing to a lengthy contract with a particular provider. Simply put, Rep. Eshoo’s legislation will empower consumer choice and remedy this situation.” The Next Generation Wireless Disclosure Act has been referred to the House Energy & Commerce Committee. A copy of the bill can be accessed here. ###
06.15.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo and Bipartisan Coalition Introduce Bill to Combat the Rise of Drug-Resistant Infections June 15th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and a bipartisan coalition of Members of the U.S. House of Representatives introduced the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now (GAIN) Act, to provide incentives for the development of new antibiotics needed to treat new and emerging resistant bugs. The GAIN Act is authored by Congressman Phil Gingrey, M.D. (R-GA) and co-sponsored by Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Gene Green (D-TX), Ed Whitfield (R-KY), Diana DeGette (D-CO), Mike Rogers (R-MI), and John Shimkus (R-IL). The following statements were issued along with the introduction of the bipartisan legislation: Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA): “Every day, patients in our country, and around the world, die because they develop infections resistant to existing antibiotics. As bacteria evolve, it’s critical that antibiotics stay a step ahead of the problem. This bill encourages companies to develop new antibiotics, an area that’s traditionally been unprofitable for most companies and the reason why they are really lacking in our healthcare system. The GAIN Act is a bipartisan approach to stave off a public health crisis and I look forward to its passage into law.” Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA): “There are some issues so important they transcend politics-as-usual. Protecting American families from deadly infections is certainly one of them, which is why my colleagues and I are introducing the GAIN Act. With this legislation, we hope to ensure that new drugs will be available to combat the rising numbers of antibiotic-resistant bugs that threaten Americans in hospitals, on the battlefield, in their homes, and in our schools. Health professionals have been sounding the alarm on this problem for over a decade – a solution to this problem is long overdue.” Rep. Gene Green (D-TX): “To date, antibiotics have been overused and over prescribed. This has resulted in mutating new bacteria with fewer and fewer antibiotics to combat infection. The GAIN Act, by providing innovators with additional data exclusivity, seeks to responsibly spur innovation and increase the number of new antibiotics in the FDA approval pipeline. The growing threat of antibiotic resistance is very disconcerting and an issue Congress must take steps to address before it becomes a full blown public health crisis.” Rep. Mike Rogers (R-MI): “The GAIN Act will encourage the development of next-generation antibiotic drugs to protect public health and our national security,” said U.S. Rep. Mike Rogers, MI-08. “It will also ensure that we use our nation’s greatest resource – our own scientists and engineers – to come up with innovative solutions to reduce antimicrobial resistance.” Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO): “Amidst growing concerns about antibiotic resistance and its very real threat to the public health, I am proud today to cosponsor the GAIN Act,” said Rep. Diana DeGette (CO-1). “We face not only resistance to treatments for the bacterial illnesses we’ve long confronted, but also the threats of mutations or new illnesses we’ve yet to encounter. This bill addresses the need for new and innovative antibiotic treatments to better protect our families and the health of the American public as a whole for years to come.” This legislation would provide new incentives for the development of “qualified infectious disease products,” or antibiotics, by granting five years of additional data exclusivity to the product developed. Additionally, it would provide six months data exclusivity for products with companion diagnostics, provide priority review by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and make products eligible for fast-track designation by the FDA. It would also require a review and possible revising of FDA guidelines regarding clinical trials and other requirements for approval of antibiotic drugs. ###
06.08.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Making Recovery from Appendectomy June 8th, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) underwent a successful laparoscopic appendectomy at Stanford Hospital yesterday, and is making a full recovery. There were no complications. The surgeon was Dr. Karen Whang. Rep. Eshoo will be working from home for the rest of the week. ###
06.07.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Service Academy Appointments at Ceremony June 7th, 2011 Palo Alto, California – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced her congressional nominees at an awards ceremony appointed to military service academies. Held at the base for the 129th Rescue Wing at Moffett Field, the ceremony recognized the seven students who have been appointed for the next school year. The students from the 14th Congressional District who have accepted appointments to the service academies are: Emily Blaha of Los Altos; Lumiere Hayes of Belmont; Misha Ignacio and Connor Nunley of Mountain View; Christina Misch and Amy Saxton of Sunnyvale; and Timothy Steinberg of Boulder Creek. “Nominating outstanding young women and men from the 14th Congressional District to serve in our nation’s prestigious Service Academies has always been a high honor for me as a Member of Congress,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Every year, we go through a rigorous process to select high school students who will make our country and our District proud. Our nation’s men and women in uniform are the best in the world, and I’m confident that these young men and women will serve with honor and distinction.” Rep. Eshoo was joined by local officials, and service members from the 129th Rescue Wing, the 63d Regional Support Command and San Francisco Naval Recruiting District in honoring the appointees. During the ceremony at Moffett Field, appointees were greeted and congratulated by Eshoo, current service members, and by the family and friends of the appointees. The Academies select only the most qualified high school students in the country. The selection process is highly competitive and each service academy looks for candidates of high scholarship with strong backgrounds in math and science, leadership potential, and physical aptitude. Medical fitness and the motivation for a military career following graduation are also important factors. The law requires that candidates for service academies be at least 17 years old and not have passed their 22nd birthday. Candidates must also be U.S. citizens, unmarried and not have any dependents. Each high school student appointed began working with Rep. Eshoo’s office in the Spring before their senior year. After submitting their complete application, Eshoo’s Service Academy Review Board – a group of former service members and others knowledgeable about the service academy appointment process from the 14th Congressional District – review all applications and interview each candidate. Based on the interviews and a thorough review of each applicant, the Board makes its recommendations to Rep. Eshoo, who then sends her final nominations to the respective academies. Below is information about each appointee: Emily Blaha (Valley Christina High School, Los Altos) – U.S. Naval Academy Emily has accepted her appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. At the academy, Emily’s goal is to major in History, continuing her passion for foreign languages and become a naval aviator after graduation. Lumiere Hayes (Junipero Serra High School, Belmont) – U.S. Naval Academy Lumiere has accepted his appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Upon graduation from the academy, Lumiere’s goal is to pursue a military career as a Navy SEAL. Misha Ignacio (Mountain View High School, Mountain View) – U.S. Air Force Academy Misha has accepted her appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. At the academy, she plans to work to become an outstanding leader, officer, and later a pediatrician in the United States Air Force, spreading her knowledge and experiences to those around her. Connor Nunley (Mountain View High School, Mountain View) – U.S. Military Academy at West Point Connor has accepted his appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Upon graduation from the academy, Connor is excited to serve the United States of America through the qualities of duty, honor, and country. Christina Misch (Naval Academy Preparatory School, Sunnyvale) – U.S. Naval Academy Christina has accepted her appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Upon graduation from the academy, Christina hopes to continue a career in the United States Navy and take advantage of the many opportunities available to her. Amy Saxton (St. Francis High School, Sunnyvale) – U.S. Military Academy at West Point Amy has accepted her appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Upon graduation from the academy, Amy wants to serve her country by working with other people who are impacting the future of our nation and the world. Timothy Steinberg (San Lorenzo Valley High School, Boulder Creek) – U.S. Naval Academy Timothy has accepted his appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. At the academy, Timothy hopes to become more disciplined and prepared for whatever tasks may be ahead of him.
06.03.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Floor Statement on Amendment to Improve Transparency and Disclosure June 3rd, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) offered an amendment to the legislation funding the Department of Homeland Security that would require any company awarded a federal contract to disclose all of its political expenditures. The amendment was ruled out of order. She offered a similar amendment to a spending bill in February 2011, which was also procedurally blocked by Republicans. Since then, a draft Executive Order from President Obama, which would accomplish substantially the same objective, has been leaked. Please click here to watch Rep. Eshoo’s full statement on the House floor. “Mr. Chairman, I rise today to speak about what I think is a very, very important undertaking. It deals with our democratic system, and what works against it. “My amendment would requires anyone who receives an appropriation, a contract … doing business with the Federal Government produce full disclose relative to its political expenditures. I raise this because I think there is a dark corner of our system that is not being addressed. And it is an issue that is about … as much about deficit reduction as it is about our democracy. “We know that there are political expenditures that are made, some are disclosed, some aren’t. I think it’s important to state that I really believe, that this could have been a bipartisan agreement. It’s important to remember our Republican colleagues were for disclosure before they were against it. In 2000, Senator Mitch McConnell asked, “Why would a little disclosure be better than a lot of disclosure?” In 2007, on Meet the Press, Speaker John Boehner said we need ‘full disclosure of all the money that we raise and how it is spent. And I think sunlight is the best disinfectant.’ “I agree with what the Speaker said in 2007, but since then, our colleagues have changed their minds. Not a single Republican voted for the DISCLOSE Act, and when I offered an amendment similar to this one in February, it wasn’t even brought up, it wasn’t allowed to be brought up for a vote. Since then, Republicans have gone on high alert at the news that the President was considering an Executive Order to create the same kind of disclosure they used to favor. “I know that the national Chamber of Commerce has weighed in, and they’ve raised First Amendment [issues]. I’m really interested in this new effort and interest of the national Chamber of Commerce. I hope that they will come to my office and talk to me about forming a coalition on first amendment rights. “This is not about that, and nobody can say that with a straight face. “My constituents are very smart. They can think for themselves. But even the smartest people can’t make a decision without critical information, and today’s broken system leaves millions of Americans in the dark. They don’t know who is paying for what, they don’t know who is being paid to say what because there is no regulation at the federal level. This levels this out. “It very simply says that we are on the side of taxpayers. That we are going to make sure that whether its procurement or contracts or appropriations, that we want to be on the side of the taxpayer. On the side of the taxpayer having full disclosure, so they not only know who’s doing business with the federal government, but where these tax dollars are going. “There is a requirement at the SEC where boards of directors which are essentially the Congress of a corporation, must disclose their financial interests. Why? So that the shareholders know. Well guess who the shareholders are in the country – the taxpayers, the citizens. This is in many ways a backdoor earmark, and we need get rid of it. So I hope that this will be made in order, and I also think that this is a very important effort for full disclosure at the federal level. Whomever does business with the federal government, that they disclose. “It’s fair, it’s a fair requirement, it’s a simple requirement, and I think that it’s something we should all agree on – Disclosure, Disclosure, Disclosure.” ###
06.01.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Subcommittee Hearing on Commercial Spectrum Auctions June 1st, 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), top Democrat on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement after a hearing to discuss opportunities for expanding wireless broadband deployment through commercial spectrum auctions: “Congress should focus its efforts on using spectrum to its maximum efficiency, and be fiscally responsible in the decisions we make. Voluntary incentive auctions will address our nation’s growing demand for wireless, while providing a financial incentive for broadcasters to give back spectrum. As part of this process, we should also examine opportunities for unlicensed use, which to date has unlocked tremendous innovation and will continue to drive future growth in smart grid applications, access to patient records in hospitals and much more. “I’m committed to working with colleagues in both the House and Senate to develop this important legislation and listen to impacted stakeholders. By working together, we can promote broadband, help inspire innovation, and create much-needed jobs and economic growth.” ###
05.25.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Preserve Funding to Train America’s Doctors May 25th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today voted to preserve funding for Graduate Medical Education (GME). This funding has enabled generations of young doctors to train in hospitals, has ensured that the United States has an adequate medical workforce, and is considered one of the most highly effective federal programs. “Primary care doctors are the first, and often the only doctor a patient will see. They are the first line of defense and the best hope we have for keeping people healthy and costs down,” said Rep. Eshoo. “We need a dedicated funding stream to ensure a vital medical workforce to treat the millions of newly-insured Americans.” GME was greatly expanded in the new health reform law, the Affordable Care Act, in order to focus on training more primary care physicians, an area of critical need. As millions of Americans become insured under the Affordable Care Act, the country will need an adequate supply of doctors to care for them. H.R. 1216 would change the funding source included for the enhanced GME from mandatory appropriations to an authorization of appropriations, subjecting the program to unpredictable Congressional politics. Today, only fifteen percent of medical school graduates enter the field of primary care, while the rest pursue various specialties and subspecialties. This is a trend that must be reversed, especially as the baby boomer population ages and requires additional care. H.R. 1216 passed the House by a vote of 234 to 185. ###
05.25.2011	+ SHARE Communications and Technology Subcommittee Hearing Examining Steps for Building an Interoperable Public Safety Communications Network May 25th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), top Democratic Member on the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, Communications and Technology Subcommittee discussed efforts to build a nationwide, interoperable communications network for first responders. After the hearing, Eshoo released the following statement: “Nearly a decade after the attack on our country, we remain without a nationwide network that allows our first responders to communicate seamlessly,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Over the past several years, we’ve grappled with the question of how to best build and maintain such a network. We need to work together to create this coast-to-coast network, and avoid the communications breakdowns we experienced during 9/11 and other national emergencies.” Last year, the FCC’s National Broadband Plan recommended that a portion of wireless spectrum, commonly referred to as the 700 MHz “D-block” be auctioned, effectively creating a partnership that allows for commercial and public safety use. Since that time, others have proposed reallocating the “D-block” directly to public safety. The Subcommittee hosted this hearing on how to best utilize the spectrum available. Eshoo questioned witnesses on how to ensure that the plan is properly funded, uses the spectrum available to its maximum efficiency, and encompasses the expertise of those in the telecommunications sector. Rep. Eshoo serves as the Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and has served as co-chair of the bipartisan and bicameral the NextGen 9-1-1 Caucus. In the last Congress, she joined Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL) and former-Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA) in cosponsoring the Next Generation Public Safety Device Act. Rep. Eshoo is reintroducing this legislation with Rep. Shimkus, which would improve competition in the public safety device market, an essential element of a nationwide interoperable network for first responders. ###
05.12.2011	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo and Waxman Comment on GAO’s Review of Federal Spectrum Management May 12th, 2011 Washington, D.C. —The Democratic leadership of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology today responded to a new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report regarding federal spectrum management issues. The GAO report was requested during the 111th Congress by then Chairman Henry A. Waxman and former Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet Chairman Rick Boucher. Given the critical importance of spectrum policy to the U.S. economy and consumers, during the 112th Congress Ranking Member Waxman and Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo invited the Republican leadership of the Committee and Subcommittee to join them as co-requestors on the report. Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Rockefeller and Ranking Member Hutchison were also added as co-requestors. “I welcome GAO’s report examining the federal government’s use of spectrum today,” said Rep. Eshoo. “To reach the President’s goal of freeing up 500 MHz of spectrum for wireless broadband, all options should be on the table, including the repurposing of spectrum currently used by federal agencies. This report helps us understand the complexities involved with how this spectrum is being used and how it may be utilized in the future to support national security, defense and emergency communications.” “This timely report highlights the enormous challenges confronting the Administration in making more federal spectrum available for commercial wireless broadband use,” said Rep. Waxman. “GAO identifies several areas for improvement and I know that the Department of Commerce takes the GAO recommendations seriously. At the same time, NTIA should be commended for its diligent efforts to develop and implement President Obama’s plan to repurpose significant amounts of federal spectrum for commercial wireless broadband use, despite significant resource constraints.” “The GAO report underlines the urgency for Congress to focus immediately on spectrum policy,” continued Rep. Waxman. “We should act promptly in a bipartisan manner to authorize incentive auctions, start the construction of a nationwide public safety broadband network, and conduct vigorous oversight of federal and commercial spectrum utilization. This undertaking will be complex and time consuming, but it is critical to our economic growth and broadband future.” A full copy of the GAO report can be accessed here. ###
05.05.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes Gift for Big Oil May 5th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 1230, a bill that would force the sale of offshore drilling leases, without adequate environmental review. “H.R. 1230 ignores lessons we should have learned from the BP disaster in the Gulf – the inadequate environmental and safety regulations. This bill would force the Department of Interior to approve leases based on outdated environmental reviews that contain the same flawed and dangerous assumptions that led to the BP lease,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This head-in-the-sand approach is irresponsible and once again shows who the GOP supports – the most profitable companies in the world, not our coastal communities, our fisheries, or our environment.” H.R. 1230 would require the Secretary of the Interior to hastily conduct lease sales for new offshore drilling areas in the Gulf of Mexico and off the Virginia coast, within unreasonable time limits. The bill is reckless and unnecessary because the Administration is already moving forward with the lease sales in the Gulf of Mexico which are being reviewed to ensure sound safety and environment protections. ###
05.05.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Rejects Bills That Limit Healthcare Options May 5th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – This week Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against three bills which would dramatically reduce Americans’ access to healthcare, raise costs, and deny millions of women the reproductive health services they need. “These bills attempt to chip away at meaningful healthcare reform under the pretense of saving money. They prevent people from accessing health insurance, and eliminate important health services for women – services that today are guaranteed by law. These bills place ideology ahead of the needs of the American people who want us to work together to address their top priority: creating jobs. Instead, these bills are extreme and divisive, and have nothing to do with job creation.” H.R. 1213 would repeal state funding for Health Insurance Exchanges—the transparent marketplaces where people not covered through their employers can compare private plans side-by-side from a menu of options. State-based Exchanges will open the insurance market to millions of Americans who don’t have insurance. Without federal funding to establish the Exchanges, many states will not be able to set them up. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, without Exchanges, the number of people without health insurance is expected to increase by roughly half a million by 2015. Health Insurance Exchanges were established in the health reform law. H.R. 1214 would repeal funding for school-based health center construction. School-based health centers are one of the many investments in the Affordable Care Act to increase access to primary care healthcare services for children and adolescents. These centers are a cost-effective way to address children’s medical needs and have a proven record of success. Healthy kids perform better in school, have higher graduation rates, and lead more successful lives. H.R. 3, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, purport to prohibit any federal funds from being used for abortion. However, such a ban is already law, the Hyde Amendment, passed in 1976. H.R. 3 would turn our tax collection agency into a healthcare policing agency, by taxing small businesses and individuals who buy private insurance plans that cover abortions, while allowing tax breaks to those who buy policies that do not. ###
05.03.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Cost-Saving Broadband Deployment Bill May 3rd, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, introduced the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2011. Original cosponsors are House Energy & Commerce Committee Ranking Member Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-MA), Rep. Doris Matsui (D-CA) and Rep. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA). This commonsense legislation would require the inclusion of “broadband conduit” – plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable – during the construction of federal highways. “New data points to broadband still not being deployed in a ‘reasonable and timely’ manner across the United States. This legislation is a creative approach to more rapidly deploy broadband service, promote competition, and do so with limited federal dollars,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This ‘dig once’ policy would expand broadband at a fraction of the cost by including the conduit as roads are being built.” The Federal Highway Administration estimates it is ten times more expensive to dig up and then repair an existing road to lay fiber, than to dig a channel for it when the road is being built or repaired. Rep. Markey said, “Broadband networks are as important to our country’s economic success as the interstate highways of the past. Unfortunately, the United States has fallen behind other nations in terms of broadband deployment and adoption. Rep. Eshoo’s important legislation will help us work smarter, not harder, as we seek to increase deployment of high-speed Internet access to communities across the country. It wisely mandates the placement of broadband conduits when the ground beneath a roadway is exposed as federal highways are constructed. This will save time and money while lowering barriers to deployment and increasing investment and competition for broadband. I commend Rep. Eshoo for this excellent bill and look forward to supporting it as it moves through the legislative process.” “The Broadband Conduit Deployment Act will vastly improve our nation’s telecommunications infrastructure that will encourage greater broadband deployment and create jobs,” said Rep. Matsui, a member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. “In the digital age, investing in our nation’s broadband infrastructure is essential to reducing barriers and keeping America globally competitive.” “There’s nothing more important to 21st century economic growth and competitiveness than universal access to affordable broadband Internet,” said Rep. Woolsey. “Our nation can’t afford a digital divide. We need to have a strong telecommunications infrastructure that reaches every American and every American community. That’s why it’s important that we pass the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act.” The Broadband Conduit Deployment Act of 2011 has been referred to the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Highways and Transit. ###
05.02.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Death of Osama bin Laden May 2nd, 2011 Washington, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after news that Osama bin Laden, founder of the Al Qaeda terrorist network and mastermind of the September 11th attacks on our country, was killed by U.S. forces: “It was a great relief to hear the news that Osama bin Laden was taken after an almost decade-long hunt. No one could have received this news with greater relief than the families who lost their loved ones in the worst attack in our nation’s history. “As an eight-year veteran of the House Intelligence Committee, bravo to our intelligence community for their superb work and the work and courage of America’s military forces. When America decides to do something, we have the capacity and the tenacity to do so. We can finally say, ‘mission accomplished.'” ###
04.25.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo Hosts Internet Privacy and Safety Event April 25th, 2011 Palo Alto, California – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) will host a special meeting on April 28th between 6:00 to 7:30 p.m. at the Palo Alto City Council Chambers, 250 Hamilton Avenue, to discuss Internet safety and privacy issues with her constituents. She will be joined by Larry Magid, Technology Journalist and co-director of ConnectSafely.org., and Joe Sullivan, Chief Security Officer of Facebook, Inc. The event is open to the public, and anyone interested in attending can RSVP at 650-323-2984. Space is limited. “As the top Democrat on the Subcommittee with jurisdiction over communication and technology and as the Representative of Silicon Valley, I’ve been asked many questions about online safety and privacy. In response to these questions and concerns from constituents, I’m pleased to host a special meeting to discuss these important issues, as well as provide resources to help protect the public on-line,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I look forward to meeting with my constituents and hearing about their concerns, questions and suggestions on online safety and privacy.” WHO: Anna G. Eshoo, Member of Congress Larry Magid, technology journalist and Co-Director, ConnectSafely.org Joe Sullivan, Chief Security Officer, Facebook WHAT: Special Meeting for Constituents on Internet Safety and Privacy WHERE: Palo Alto City Council Chambers 250 Hamiliton Avenue Palo Alto, California 94301 WHEN: April 28th, 6:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Call 650-323-2984 to RSVP Anna G. Eshoo was first sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives in 1993 and for almost two decades in Congress she has defended consumers, promoted American competitiveness and innovation, fought for access to health care for families and children, protected the environment, and encouraged development of clean energy technology. Rep. Eshoo represents Silicon Valley and has served on the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee since 1995 and is Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which has primary jurisdiction over the Internet and telecommunications. Larry Magid is a technology journalist and an Internet safety advocate. He serves as on-air technology analyst for CBS News, is co-director of ConnectSafely.org and founder of SafeKids.com. He also writes columns that appear on CNET News, CBSNews.com, Huffington Post and the San Jose Mercury News. Larry has a doctorate of education from the University of Massachusetts and a bachelor’s degree from the University of California at Berkeley. He has taught at the University of Massachusetts and Boston University. Facebook, Inc. is a social utility that helps people communicate more efficiently with their friends, family and coworkers. Founded in February 2004 and headquartered in Palo Alto, California, the company develops technologies that facilitate the sharing of information through the social graph, the digital mapping of people’s real-world social connections. Facebook also works with online safety experts around the world and has established a global Safety Advisory Board that it consults with on safety issues. More information can be found on its newly redesigned Family Safety Center at http://www.facebook.com/safety and at http://www.facebook.com/fbsafety. ###
04.20.2011	+ SHARE Clarification of High-Speed Rail Announcement April 20th, 2011 Following Monday’s announcement by Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, Senator Joe Simitian and Assemblyman Rich Gordon, there appears to be some misperception about what they have proposed. Congresswoman Eshoo, Senator Simitian and Assemblyman Gordon wish to make clear that they are not calling for high-speed trains to stop in San Jose, forcing riders from the south, for instance, to transfer to Caltrain to reach San Francisco. There would be no transfers. The idea is to upgrade the Caltrain corridor so that high-speed trains can run on the same tracks. High-speed trains would run northbound and southbound all the way between San Francisco and Los Angeles, as required by Prop 1A. On the Peninsula, they would operate on the same tracks as Caltrain, overtaking slower Caltrain trains at certain passing points, just as Caltrain’s baby bullet trains overtake and pass local trains today. ###
04.18.2011	+ SHARE High Speed Rail Announcement April 18th, 2011 Today Rep. Eshoo, along with State Senator Joe Simitian and Assemblymember Rich Gordon released a joint statement on the future of Caltrain and High Speed Rail. Click here to read the joint statement Below are Rep. Eshoo’s Remarks as Prepared: I’m proud to join my colleagues, State Senator Joe Simitian (Subcommittee Chair of the Senate Transportation Budget Committee) and Assemblymember Rich Gordon (Subcommittee Chair of the House Transportation Budget Committee) to release our joint statement on a critically important issue for our entire region. I believe that Caltrain, the spine of our transportation system today, running through three counties should remain our anchor commuter system for the 21st century. Period. To transform Caltrain, I’ve worked with U.S. Transportation Secretary LaHood, U.S. Federal Rail Administration Administrator Szabo, and several Members of the Bay Area Congressional Delegation to advocate for federal support. Our federal ‘working group’ which was established during a meeting with Secretary LaHood last September, has identified the Positive Train Control project as a top priority and we’ve coordinated efforts to secure funding. Tough to come by resources must be used wisely and investments in PTC, and a blended system that integrates high-speed rail coming up from the Central Valley, with a 21st century Caltrain will benefit my constituents, the Peninsula and Caltrain for generations to come. That blended system should stay within the existing right-of-ways, avoid aerial viaducts, and must be consistent with a project of reasonable size based on credible ridership projections. The California High Speed Rail Authority has squandered much of their good will on the Peninsula by not honoring many of the communities, but they have an opportunity during the development of the next EIR to do something positive for Caltrain and the Peninsula. Our joint statement is clear in what a project that is “done right” should look like. I’ll work with my colleagues to hold the California High Speed Rail Authority to this standard. I believe our constituents, our communities and our region deserve a modernized Caltrain and I will fight to ensure that the principles we’ve announced today for a blended system on the Peninsula are achieved.
04.15.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes Dismantlement of Medicare April 15th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.Con.Res. 34, the Republican budget proposal for 2012, which would end Medicare. The proposal replaces the guaranteed coverage of Medicare with vouchers for seniors to purchase their health insurance from the private insurance market. “When President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law in 1964, only one in eight seniors had health insurance. Today, Medicare is the gold standard for coverage and efficiency, but the Republican budget proposal destroys the guarantee of affordable healthcare for seniors in our country,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This is an assault on the dignity of seniors, and it will create the first large group of uninsured seniors since Medicare’s enactment.” Other key provisions of the budget proposal include: • Dismantles Medicaid, which covers 7 out of every 10 nursing home residents, denying seniors the long-term care they need. • Makes the largest cut to Pell Grants in history, robbing 1.7 million students of critical support for college education. • Eliminates federal support for applied research and development, a key source of U.S. innovation and job creation over the past fifty years. • Significantly cuts investment in clean energy, while retaining billions of dollars in subsidies for oil companies. • Deregulates “too big to fail” financial institutions, allowing Wall Street to operate in the same way that caused the 2007 financial meltdown. • Gives tax breaks to the wealthiest ten percent of the population, costing billions in revenue. • Repeals healthcare reform, including the Patient’s Bill of Rights, which protects Americans from insurance company abuses such as annual or lifetime limits on coverage, rescission of coverage due to illness, and denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions. • Misleads the public with the promise of deficit and debt reduction, when the proposal only balances the budget after 75 years. “The Republican’s vision is less about reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social compact in America,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This plan claims to reduce the deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires while demanding unrealistic sacrifice from America’s most vulnerable citizens. I cannot support this reckless agenda. It’s not good for our country or for seniors, and it runs contrary to our values as it shortchanges our future.” The bill passed by a vote of 235 – 193. ###
04.14.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights Attacks on Healthcare April 14th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against three bills which assault women’s health, prevention efforts, and patients’ rights. The bills would eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood and the Affordable Care Act. “Republicans are continuing their assault against healthcare for those who need it most. In the last week, Republicans have introduced and voted on legislation to privatize Medicare, defund Medicaid, repeal the Patient’s Bill of Rights, and eliminate prevention measures and women’s health services,” Rep. Eshoo said. “None of these bills are related to job creation, funding the government, or reducing the deficit—they represent an ideological attack on affordable healthcare access, and women’s health.” The House voted on the following bills: H.Con.Res. 35 changes the 2011 budget compromise to block all federal funding of the Affordable Care Act. This includes the Patient’s Bill of Rights, which prevents annual or lifetime limits on coverage, rescinding coverage because of illness, and denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions. H.Con.Res. 35 passed today by a vote of 240-135. H.Con.Res. 36 changes the budget compromise to prevent Planned Parenthood from receiving any federal funding. 97% of the care Planned Parenthood provides is for prevention, including breast cancer screenings, birth control, and annual exams for women. 3% of funding—and no federal funding, under existing federal law—is used for abortion services. H.Con.Res. 36 passed today by a vote of 241-185. H.R. 1217, eliminating the Prevention and Public Health Fund, a provision in the Affordable Care Act which invests in prevention and public health programs to help restrain growth of healthcare costs. A recent report from Trust for America’s Health concluded that an investment of $10 per person per year in basic preventative services could save more than $16 billion annually within 5 years—generating more than five dollars for every dollar spent. H.R. 1217 passed yesterday by a vote of 236-183. ###
04.08.2011	+ SHARE Message from Rep. Eshoo on a Shutdown of the Federal Government April 8th, 2011 On the eve of a possible shutdown of the federal government, I want all my constituents to know that our offices in Palo Alto and Washington, D.C. will remain open to serve the people of our Congressional District. My staff will remain on duty without pay if there is a shutdown. Any constituent who has questions or needs can continue to contact us at our District office at (650) 323-2984 or our Washington, D.C. office at (202) 225-8104. There are many costs to a federal government shutdown, including putting some 800,000 federal employees out of work — 26,000 of whom reside in our Congressional District. A shutdown will prevent the IRS from issuing refund checks, freeze federal environmental clean-up projects, delay pay for our soldiers fighting overseas, stall new applications for Social Security, Medicare, passports, and visas, and halt Small Business Administration and Federal Housing Authority loans. A shutdown will close 25 National Park sites in California, and veterans who receive disability benefits may also see their payments delayed. Depending on how long the shutdown lasts, the ripple effects could impact everyone from families who won’t be able to get a housing loan to the thousands of companies that ship supplies to government agencies. When the government closed for 20 days in the 1990’s, the nation’s economic growth slowed by as much as a full percentage point in that quarter, according to leading economists. As we struggle to recover from the deepest recession in our history, a government shutdown with its job losses and other negative effects could damage our fragile economic situation. Constituents can access additional information about the effects of a government shutdown through resources available on this website.
04.08.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes Dismantling of Open Internet Protections April 8th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, voted against H.J. Res. 37, a bill to strip the Internet of rules which protect the Internet’s free, open, and accessible environment. “The open Internet ushered in an era of American innovation, generating over a million American jobs and creating competition,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Past abuses have demonstrated that without rules to protect this environment, broadband providers have the ability to carve the Internet into fast lanes and slow lanes for their financial gain, deciding which sources of news, information, and entertainment consumers can access. Good will is not a policy to keep the Internet free.” In December, 2010, the Federal Communications Commission enacted rules to protect the Internet’s openness and prevent the stifling of competition by broadband providers. The rules were developed after many months of discussion and represent a compromise between the interests of consumers, technology companies, and broadband providers. The Republican bill eliminates these rules by using an obscure law called the Congressional Review Act, which can strike agency rules before they go into effect. “Over the past two months, Congressional testimony has been clear that basic ‘rules of the road’ are good for consumers and provide companies the certainty they need to invest with confidence,” Rep. Eshoo said. “By repealing rules to protect the hallmarks of the Internet, the resolution will create market uncertainty, stifle consumer choice, and harm innovation and job creation. Americans overwhelmingly oppose practices which limit a free and open Internet, but Republicans have turned a deaf ear.” During its rulemaking process, the FCC received more than 100,000 comments from more than 2 million people—90 percent of whom were in favor of open Internet rules. Over 150 public interest organizations, civil rights groups, religious groups, small businesses, unions, education advocates, and technology company associations have expressed their support for preserving a free and open Internet, and opposed efforts to overturn the FCC rules. A survey conducted in March by the Consumer Federation of America found that respondents supported policies to ensure open Internet access by more than two to one. H.J. Res. 37 passed the House by a vote of 240-179. ###
04.08.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes Dismantling of Open Internet Protections April 8th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, voted against H.J. Res. 37, a bill to strip the Internet of rules which protect the Internet’s free, open, and accessible environment. “The open Internet ushered in an era of American innovation, generating over a million American jobs and creating competition,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Past abuses have demonstrated that without rules to protect this environment, broadband providers have the ability to carve the Internet into fast lanes and slow lanes for their financial gain, deciding which sources of news, information, and entertainment consumers can access. Good will is not a policy to keep the Internet free.” In December, 2010, the Federal Communications Commission enacted rules to protect the Internet’s openness and prevent the stifling of competition by broadband providers. The rules were developed after many months of discussion and represent a compromise between the interests of consumers, technology companies, and broadband providers. The Republican bill eliminates these rules by using an obscure law called the Congressional Review Act, which can strike agency rules before they go into effect. “Over the past two months, Congressional testimony has been clear that basic ‘rules of the road’ are good for consumers and provide companies the certainty they need to invest with confidence,” Rep. Eshoo said. “By repealing rules to protect the hallmarks of the Internet, the resolution will create market uncertainty, stifle consumer choice, and harm innovation and job creation. Americans overwhelmingly oppose practices which limit a free and open Internet, but Republicans have turned a deaf ear.” During its rulemaking process, the FCC received more than 100,000 comments from more than 2 million people—90 percent of whom were in favor of open Internet rules. Over 150 public interest organizations, civil rights groups, religious groups, small businesses, unions, education advocates, and technology company associations have expressed their support for preserving a free and open Internet, and opposed efforts to overturn the FCC rules. A survey conducted in March by the Consumer Federation of America found that respondents supported policies to ensure open Internet access by more than two to one. H.J. Res. 37 passed the House by a vote of 240-179. ###
04.07.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights the Gutting of the Clean Air Act April 7th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 910, a bill to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating greenhouse gases. The bill repeals the scientific determination made by the EPA that greenhouse gases threaten public health and welfare. “As gas prices rise and turmoil increases in the Middle East, we should be voting on legislation to decrease our dependence on oil. We should be voting to drive innovation in clean energy industries. We should be voting to assure our future security, achieve energy independence, and leave the next generation with a healthy world,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Instead we’re voting on a bill to gut the Clean Air Act and prevent the EPA from fulfilling its mission – to protect the health and environment of the American people.” Effects of the bill include: Overturning the Supreme Court’s opinion finding that EPA has the authority to regulate greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. Prohibiting EPA from requiring additional reductions of greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles and repeal California’s authority to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles. Prohibiting EPA from requiring reductions of greenhouse gas emissions from other mobile sources, such as planes, trains, boats, and large construction equipment. Interfering with EPA’s ability to address ozone-depleting chemicals and substitutes for such chemicals. Undermining the Administration’s ability to negotiate with Mexico and Canada on ozone-depleting chemicals that have high global warming potentials. “My Republican colleagues have abdicated their responsibilities as leaders and buried their heads in the sand rather than address a looming global crisis. They have continually ignored the overwhelming scientific consensus that man-made climate change is a threat, and with this bill they have gone a step further—legislating against science itself,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill further binds us to fossil fuels, weakens our nation’s ability to fight one of the most critical issues facing us today, and worst of all, chains America to the past, instead of leading the world into the future.” H.R. 910 has been opposed by the National Academy of Sciences, the American Lung Association, American Public Health Association, United Auto Workers, former senior military officers, and thousands of scientists and public health workers, among others. A list of letters in opposition to the bill can be found here. H.R. 910 passed by a vote of 255-172.
04.05.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against Healthcare Attacks April 5th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against five bills in the Energy and Commerce Committee that would defund critical components of the Affordable Care Act, including public health programs, medical education grants, health center construction, teen pregnancy prevention programs, state health grants, and services to high-risk, vulnerable, and culturally under-represented populations. “Republicans are eliminating the very programs designed to address the weaknesses in our health system—sky-rocketing healthcare costs, too few primary care doctors, and a lack of affordable healthcare options,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It’s another ill-considered, indiscriminate volley against the healthcare reform law, and it’s based on ideology instead of reality. These votes occurred on the same day that Republicans introduced yet another proposal to privatize Medicare.” In the Republican Budget Plan announced today, House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan proposed ending Medicare as we know it and converting it instead to a voucher program for seniors to purchase private insurance plans. Vouchers would not cover the full cost of coverage, eliminating Medicare’s guarantee of comprehensive, affordable coverage for seniors. The bills considered in the Energy and Commerce Committee defund the following: 1) Prevention and Public Health Fund which invests in prevention and public health programs to help restrain the rate of growth in healthcare costs. A report from Trust for America’s Health concluded that an investment of $10 per person per year to increase physical activity, improve nutrition, and prevent smoking and other tobacco use could save more than $16 billion annually within 5 years—generating more than five dollars for every dollar spent. 2) Graduate Medical Education programs which expand training for primary care physicians, a field which only 12 percent of medical students choose as a career. 3) Personal Responsibility Education Program which invests in evidence-based, medically accurate teen pregnancy prevention programs, including information about both abstinence and contraception. 4) School-based health center construction which increases community access to clinical preventive services. 5) State-based Health Insurance Exchanges designed to lower costs, increase access, and provide Americans with the same healthcare options that Members of Congress receive. ###
04.05.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces 2011 Congressional Art Competition April 5th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) has invited all 14th Congressional District high school students to participate in the 2011 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Every spring, Rep. Eshoo launches a district-wide art competition of talented young artists and their work. High school students from throughout the 14th Congressional District are encouraged to participate by submitting their original work to her District Office at 698 Emerson Street, Palo Alto by Thursday, April 14th before 5:30 p.m. The student whose work is chosen by a panel of local artists will have his or her artwork displayed in the corridors of our nation’s Capitol and viewed by thousands of visitors. The first place winner will receive two roundtrip tickets to Washington, D.C. from Southwest Airlines, and will be honored at a reception in mid-June with other winners from across the country. The Congressional Art Competition was originally launched in 1982 to provide an opportunity for Members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nation-wide competition. For more information on Congressional Art Competition guidelines click here, or call (650) 323-2984, (408) 245-2339 or (831) 335-2020. ###
04.04.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights for Open Internet Rules April 4th, 2011 House Will Vote to Strip Internet of Protections Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, testified before a key House Committee on the importance of the Internet’s free, open, and accessible environment for American competition, innovation, and job creation. Thursday, the House of Representatives will vote to strip the Internet of rules put in place by the Federal Communications Commission to protect this environment. “An open Internet is inseparable from the Internet as we know it, but it doesn’t mean it will remain so,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Without the FCC’s basic ‘rules of the road,’ nothing will prevent large corporations from carving the Internet into fast and slow lanes, deciding which sources of news, information, and entertainment consumers and businesses can access. The overwhelming majority of the American people agree that consumers, not corporations, should decide what content they want to access.” During its rulemaking process, the FCC received more than 100,000 comments from more than 2 million people—90 percent of whom were in favor of open Internet rules. Over one hundred public interest organizations, civil rights groups, religious groups, small businesses, unions, education advocates, and technology company associations expressed their support for preserving a free and open Internet, and opposed efforts to overturn the FCC rules. A survey conducted in March by the Consumer Federation of America found that respondents supported policies to ensure open Internet access by more than two to one. “My Republican colleagues have heard the same testimony I did…that the FCC’s rules are good for consumers and provide companies the certainty they need to invest with confidence,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It’s become increasingly clear that this isn’t about acting in the interest of American innovation, jobs, or consumers. Quite simply, this bill is another ideological assault on a government agency and their ability to provide basic consumer protections.” ###
04.01.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against ‘April Fool’ Bill April 1st, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 1255, the blatantly unconstitutional legislation to pass the Republican spending bill (H.R. 1) into law, despite its defeat in the Senate and without the President’s signature. “This is such a ridiculous bill that I thought it was an April Fool’s prank,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Unfortunately, it’s not a joke—it’s hypocrisy. Despite all their talk about the Constitution, House Republicans seem to have forgotten Article 1: ‘Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United States.'” H.R. 1255 states that if the House has not received any legislation from the Senate about funding the government by April 6th the Republican spending bill would be “deemed” as passed by the Senate, signed by the President, and enacted into law. The Senate rejected the bill on March 9th and President Obama has stated he would veto it. “The House should be working on the serious business of improving the economy, and bringing a sense of honor and dignity to its work,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This legislation is a source of embarrassment and should be rejected on its unconstitutionality.” H.R. 1255 passed the House by a vote of 221-202. ###
04.01.2011	+ SHARE Subcommittee Passes Redundant Bill April 1st, 2011 Rep. Eshoo Criticizes ‘Waste of Time’ Washington, D.C. – Last year, Congress passed a law requiring the return of unused or reclaimed broadband stimulus funds to the U.S. Treasury. Today, the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology passed another bill to do the same thing. After the vote, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), the top Democrat on the Subcommittee, said: “We passed a bill which is already law and current Agency practice. There are real issues the Subcommittee should be addressing to improve the economy, spur competition, and enhance public safety. After three months, four hearings, and two mark-ups, the Subcommittee has yet to consider a single bill that will actually help the American people.” ###
03.21.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on AT&T-T-Mobile Merger March 21st, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Communications and Technology Subcommittee, released the following statement about the announced purchase of T-Mobile USA by AT&T: “Competition is essential to promoting a vibrant wireless market, where consumers have a choice in the innovative services and devices available to them. As the FCC and DOJ begin their regulatory and antitrust review, I urge them to carefully examine the proposed transaction. “As Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, it is essential that we conduct oversight hearings and I look forward to leading that process.” ###
03.17.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights Attacks on NPR March 17th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Co-Chair of the Public Broadcasting Caucus and the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, led opposition in the House of Representatives against H.R. 1076, a bill to strip National Public Radio (NPR) of federal funding. “Republicans have declared an emergency to rush this bill to the Floor without any hearings to examine the proposal. We have many emergencies to deal with in our country, but attacking and crippling NPR is hardly an emergency,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This proposal is not about reducing the deficit or cutting federal spending. In fact, the bill doesn’t produce a cent in savings, and will threaten 9,000 jobs at stations across the country. This bill was rooted in an ideological view about what NPR broadcasts and capitalizes on recent headlines.” More than 34 million Americans listen to NPR programming through more than 900 local stations across the U.S., Guam and the Virgin Islands. The bill cuts off all federal funding to NPR. It prevents any support to NPR by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and would prohibit public radio stations from using federal funds to acquire popular NPR programs such as This American Life, Prairie Home Companion, Morning Edition, Car Talk, All Things Considered, Classical 24, World Café, and On Point among others. “This bill will affect 740,000 KQED listeners in my District who rely on public broadcasting for news and entertainment. The legislation also impacts rural communities where public radio is often the only radio and where a quarter of a station’s budget is funded with federal support. These stations provide an important public service to the local community and people trust and enjoy the programming,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Simply put, this bill threatens jobs and undermines the important news and information that public radio provides to Americans each and every day. NPR and its member stations don’t deserve this treatment.” A national survey by the bipartisan polling firms Hart Research and American Viewpoint found that almost 70 percent of all voters across the political spectrum oppose terminating funding for public broadcasting, including 56 percent of Republicans. While traditional media’s audience has sharply declined, NPR’s listenership has increased by 72 percent over the past ten years. A preliminary report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) also found that the bill will have zero effect on the deficit. H.R. 1076 passed the House by a vote of 228 – 192. ###
03.17.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Fights Attacks on NPR March 17th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Co-Chair of the Public Broadcasting Caucus and the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, led opposition in the House of Representatives against H.R. 1076, a bill to strip National Public Radio (NPR) of federal funding. “Republicans have declared an emergency to rush this bill to the Floor without any hearings to examine the proposal. We have many emergencies to deal with in our county, but attacking and crippling NPR is hardly an emergency,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This proposal is not about reducing the deficit or cutting federal spending. In fact, the bill doesn’t produce a cent in savings, and will threaten 9,000 jobs at stations across the country. This bill was rooted in an ideological view about what NPR broadcasts and capitalizes on recent headlines.” More than 34 million Americans listen to NPR programming through more than 900 local stations across the U.S., Guam and the Virgin Islands. The bill cuts off all federal funding to NPR. It prevents any support to NPR by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and would prohibit public radio stations from using federal funds to acquire popular NPR programs such as This American Life, Prairie Home Companion, Morning Edition, Car Talk, All Things Considered, Classical 24, World Café, and On Point among others. “This bill will affect 740,000 KQED listeners in my District who rely on public broadcasting for news and entertainment. The legislation also impacts rural communities where public radio is often the only radio and where a quarter of a station’s budget is funded with federal support. These stations provide an important public service to the local community and people trust and enjoy the programming,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Simply put, this bill threatens jobs and undermines the important news and information that public radio provides to Americans each and every day. NPR and its member stations don’t deserve this treatment.” A national survey by the bipartisan polling firms Hart Research and American Viewpoint found that almost 70 percent of all voters across the political spectrum oppose terminating funding for public broadcasting, including 56 percent of Republicans. While traditional media’s audience has sharply declined, NPR’s listenership has increased by 72 percent over the past ten years. A preliminary report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) also found that the bill will have zero effect on the deficit. H.R. 1076 passed the House by a vote of 228 – 192. ###
03.15.2011	+ SHARE Americans Overwhelmingly Oppose Dismantling Open Internet Protections March 15th, 2011 Washington, D.C. –The House Energy and Commerce Committee passed a resolution today, stripping the Internet of rules in place to protect Internet freedom, openness, and innovation. H.J. Res.37 invalidates the open Internet order adopted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in December, 2010. The resolution has faced staunch opposition from consumers, public interest groups, businesses, and Democratic Members of Congress. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Communications & Technology Subcommittee, said: “Over the past month, Members of the Communications & Technology Subcommittee have debated the importance of preserving a free and open Internet. From an Internet entrepreneur who co-founded Zipcar, to an executive of one of the nation’s largest broadband providers, Members heard loud and clear that basic ‘rules of the road’ are good for consumers and provide companies the certainty they need to invest with confidence.” During its rulemaking process, the FCC received more than 100,000 comments from more than 2 million people—90 percent of whom were in favor of open Internet rules. Over one hundred public interest organizations, civil rights groups, religious groups, small businesses, unions, education advocates, and technology company associations expressed their support for preserving a free and open Internet, and opposed efforts to overturn the FCC rules. A survey conducted this month by the Consumer Federation of America found that respondents supported policies to ensure open Internet access by more than two to one. “The open Internet ecosystem has allowed innovative companies to generate tens of thousands of jobs and competition,” Rep. Eshoo said. “By repealing rules to protect the hallmarks of the Internet, the Republican resolution will create market uncertainty, stifle consumer choice, and harm innovation and job creation. Americans overwhelmingly oppose practices which limit a free and open Internet, but Republicans have turned a deaf ear.” The resolution passed the Committee by a vote of 30-23 and will now be considered by the full House of Representatives. ###
03.10.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo, Shimkus, and Doyle Introduce Legislation to Promote Greater Collaboration Among FCC Commissioners March 10th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), along with Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), and Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA) introduced the Federal Communications Commission Collaboration Act today. The bipartisan legislation would modify the FCC’s Closed Meeting Rule, which prohibits more than two Commissioners from talking outside of an official public meeting. “The FCC has the responsibility to tackle the nation’s most pressing communications issues, from spectrum reform to universal service and public safety. But the Closed Meeting Rule prevents simple collaboration or discussion of these issues, outside of a formal setting,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’m pleased to introduce legislation to modify this restrictive rule to promote greater discussion among the five FCC Commissioners so they can benefit from each other’s expertise and experience.” “I have had many conversations with my colleagues from both sides of the aisle about this outdated rule and the need to pass reforms regarding the FCC. I believe the Commissioners would be able to better work together if they were also allowed to have ongoing discussions about the issues that are facing the Commission,” Rep. Shimkus said. “Getting people together to talk always leads to better results.” Rep. Doyle said, “If Congress wants common-ground, consensus solutions from the FCC, then we need to set procedural rules that promote common-ground, consensus decisions at the FCC.” The FCC Collaboration Act would modify current FCC rules to allow three or more Commissioners to hold nonpublic collaborative discussions, as long as no agency action is taken. The legislation would also ensure that a member of each political party is represented in any such discussions. ###
03.10.2011	+ SHARE 14th District Scores “Three-peat” in Well-Being Study March 10th, 2011 Palo Alto, CA – The 14th Congressional District of California has received the highest rating for “physical, mental, and social well-being” in the annual Gallup-Healthways Well-Being Index. The Index, first published in 2008, assesses health, wellness, and happiness by interviewing one thousand Americans every day. This marks the third consecutive year the 14th District ranked highest in the country. “I’m bursting with pride (but not surprised) that my Congressional District has once again ranked at the top of the Index,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto). “My District is home to a restlessly creative, eclectic group of innovators and imaginers who are constantly working to improve our region, nation, and the world. As a result, our community is characterized by cutting-edge businesses, world-renowned education, and a natural environment that has been protected and cherished for generations. I tell my colleagues every day how privileged I am to represent such a distinguished District, and this ranking is yet another example of why.” ###
03.09.2011	+ SHARE Communications and Technology Democrats Oppose Dismantling Open Internet Rules March 9th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Despite overwhelming Democratic opposition, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology passed a resolution today, stripping the Internet of rules in place to protect its freedom, its openness, and enhance innovation. H.J. Res.37 invalidates the open Internet order adopted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in December, 2010. The resolution passed the Subcommittee by a vote of 15-8 and will now be considered by the full Committee. After the vote, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee, said: “Because of the Internet’s open and free environment, innovation, competition and consumer choice have thrived, millions of jobs have been created, and thousands of new, innovative businesses have been launched. The Republican resolution places the control of this environment with corporations who have a demonstrated incentive to disrupt it, rather than consumers. An open environment of consumer choice is inseparable from the Internet as we know it, and our national laws should protect it.” Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, said: “This is a destructive resolution that threatens openness and innovation on the Internet. Instead of protecting the consumer, this action will tie the hands of the FCC and give broadband network operators a green light to block from consumers any applications, content, and services they choose to block. This represents a terrible disservice to residential and business users, harms technological innovation and slows job creation.” Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), a senior member and former chairman of the Subcommittee, said: “Today’s effort by Republicans to undo the FCC’s sensible Open Internet Rule is not just a solution in search of a problem – it’s a RESolution in search of a problem. Consumers rely on the freedom that the Internet provides, and our economy requires this freedom to promote innovation and encourage investment. The Open Internet Rule helps ensure that the Internet continues to be a vital tool that helps businesses compete and expand, pumping life into our economy now and in the future. Republican efforts to overturn the Order will adversely impact Internet users, small businesses, and our economy as a whole.” Rep. Doris Matsui (D-Sacramento), Co-Chair of the Congressional High-Tech Caucus and a member of the Subcommittee said: “The Net Neutrality rules put forth by the FCC protect consumers, promote innovation, support competition, and ensure that the Internet remains open and free. Not one of those things should be controversial. And yet, as we have seen today, Republicans would rather spend time trying to derail these common-sense rules than working on such things as creating jobs and creating certainty in our technology and broadband economy.” The FCC received more than 100,000 comments from more than 2 million people during its rulemaking process—90 percent of whom were in favor of open Internet rules. Over a hundred public interest organizations, civil rights groups, religious groups, small businesses, unions, education advocates, and technology company associations expressed their support for preserving a free and open Internet, and opposing efforts to overturn the FCC rules. Copies of all letters of support can be accessed here. ###
03.09.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Research and Development Tax Credit Expansion March 9th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced the introduction of the bipartisan American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 today. The bill expands and permanently extends the research and development (R&D) tax credit, a key economic tool of the last thirty years which directly rewards business investment in R&D. “The R&D tax credit is a proven policy which encourages businesses to invest in new technologies that create jobs and shape tomorrow’s economy. For decades it has been essential for out-innovating and out-competing the rest of the world, but now other countries have caught up,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will modernize the tax credit—expanding it, making it permanent, and keeping the U.S. as a global leader.” While the United States was the first nation to offer a tax incentive for research and development in 1981, the U.S. now ranks 24th in the most recent study of the strength of R&D tax incentives by the international Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Meanwhile, the U.S. share of global research and development has fallen, while China’s share has increased fourfold since 1999. Research and development typically takes years, but the R&D tax credit has always been extended on a short-term basis, requiring 14 extensions in the past thirty years. The American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011 would make the credit permanent to provide certainty for companies that make long-term investments in R&D. It would also strengthen the credit by increasing it from 14% to 20%. The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation estimates that these enhancements will increase annual GDP by almost a hundred billion dollars and create 162,000 jobs in the short-term alone. “There are very few easy answers to improving the economic outlook of our nation, but updating the R&D tax credit is one of them,” said Eshoo. Rep. Eshoo has worked for 18 years to make the R&D tax credit permanent. Last February, she led a bipartisan effort of 120 members of Congress, urging the expansion of the credit. Rep. Eshoo is an original cosponsor of the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2011, along with Reps. John Larson (D-CT), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), Doris Matsui (D-CA), and Michael McCaul (R-TX). Rep. Kevin Brady (R-TX) is the sponsor of the legislation. ###
02.28.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo, DeLauro Respond to Women Farmers Discrimination Decision February 28th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – On Friday, Secretary Tom Vilsack and Assistant Attorney General Tony West announced a proposal to resolve the claims of Hispanic and women farmers and ranchers alleging discrimination by USDA when seeking farm loans. Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) and Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) responded to the proposal with the following statements: “The injustice and discrimination women and Hispanic farmers suffered by the USDA cost some minority farmers their livelihoods and discouraged future generations from considering this honorable profession,” Congresswoman Eshoo said. “While I’m pleased with the Administration’s efforts to address this discrimination, I’m concerned that the proposal offers women and Hispanic farmers less compensation than in comparable settlements for Black and Native American farmers. These groups have suffered similar mistreatment and they deserve similar recompense. I will continue to work with the Administration to ensure that their proposal meets this standard.” “While I applaud the Administration’s move to address these issues, I am disappointed in the process that U.S. Department of Agriculture and Department of Justice have established to resolve discrimination claims of women farmers. By offering the same total amount of funds as other discrimination case settlements, but spread out amongst a significantly larger number of farmers, not all women farmers will be adequately reimbursed for the losses they incurred from the years of discriminatory practices by USDA,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “Parity should be maintained, and women and Hispanic farmers should be treated in the same manner as those in the Pigford and Keepseagle cases.” Last year, Eshoo and DeLauro introduced legislation, the Equality for Women Farmers Act, to rectify the injustices against women farmers. Since then, the Congresswomen have written multiple letters to the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Justice to bring the Administration’s attention to this discrimination. ###
02.19.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Blasts Cuts to Critical Services February 19th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement on H.R. 1, the measure advanced by the House Republican leadership to fund the government through the remainder of 2011. The measure would cut $100 billion from the budget for the remainder of the fiscal year. “House Republicans have chosen a reckless course at a time when strategic and forward-thinking investments must be made and pragmatism brought to cuts and spending. We know hard decisions have to be made to reduce our debt and deficit. But cuts today shouldn’t impair our competitiveness tomorrow. For example, cuts to the Department of Energy would inhibit our ability to be the world leader in clean energy technologies. Targeted investments in research, development, and education will pay dividends in our future, allowing our children to out-innovate and out-build global competitors. This resolution sacrifices critical investments in order to hit an arbitrary number. It will cost thousands of jobs, and it will gut research and development programs at a time when other nations are investing heavily and rapidly. “We need to hammer out savings and cuts across the federal budget. Instead, the Republicans have taken a sledgehammer to the weakest in our society, with predictions of 800,000 jobs lost, and opportunities squandered for our collective future.” ###
02.18.2011	+ SHARE Democrats Fight to Maintain Open Internet Framework February 18th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Last night on the Floor of the House of Representatives, Democrats fought to preserve the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) framework which protects a free, open, and accessible Internet. Republicans called a vote on legislation which will unravel this framework by prohibiting funds from being used to implement the FCC’s rules. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology said: “The open Internet ecosystem has allowed innovative companies to generate tens of thousands of jobs and new competition. By one estimate, it has resulted in more than 3 million new U.S. jobs over the past 15 years. These rules spur competition, innovation, and job creation, and efforts to repeal them are a march to folly.” Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee said: “Contrary to the hyperventilated rhetoric from the Republicans yesterday, the new FCC open Internet rules are, in fact, a bill of rights for Internet users. They do not ‘regulate the Internet,’ they do not grant the government the power to ‘turn off the Internet,’ and they do not determine what content is appropriate for users to access. Their goal is just the opposite: to prevent Internet gatekeepers from deciding what content their subscribers can access.” Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-MA): “I am disappointed that the Republicans have passed this ill-conceived amendment and are using the Congressional Review Act to stop the Open Internet Rules. Americans rely on the freedom that the Internet provides. We need to ensure this freedom endures through sensible rules of the road. The Open Internet Rule is a commonsense, light-touch approach that will ensure the certainty to spur investment, create jobs, encourage innovation, benefit consumers and keep our country in a leadership position in the global marketplace.” Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA): “The rules make three simple promises. One, to consumers: that we can visit any website we want using any service we want on any device we want. Two, for innovators: that they can create tools without getting permission from the government or the company that the consumers use to get online. Three: that we prove a cop on beat, to make sure that both sides are doing what they’re supposed to and to be a neutral arbitrator. That’s all they do.” The FCC received more than 100,000 comments from more than 2 million people during its rulemaking process—90 percent of whom were in favor of open Internet rules. Over a hundred public interest organizations, civil rights groups, religious groups, small businesses, unions, education advocates, and technology company associations expressed their support for preserving a free and open Internet, and opposing efforts to overturn the FCC rules. Copies of all the letters of support can be accessed here. The amendment passed by a vote of 244-181. ###
02.17.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Amendment to Provide Transparency and Disclosure February 17th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) offered an amendment today requiring that any company doing business with the federal government disclose their political contributions. The amendment failed when House Republicans blocked a vote on it. “Our nation was founded on the ideal that it is the people who choose their government. But money from undisclosed sources is having a corrosive influence in political campaigns. The American people have a right to know who’s trying to influence them. If corporations want to try to persuade the voters about their point of view, then they should stand behind their words. “This amendment says if you’re a federal vendor receiving taxpayer dollars, you are required to disclose to taxpayers how much you spend to influence the political system. With public funds come public responsibilities.” ###
02.16.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo, Whitehouse, and Lance Introduce Pancreatic Cancer Research Act February 16th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ) held a press conference to introduce the Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act. In attendance were Lisa Swayze, wife of the late Patrick Swayze who died of pancreatic cancer, and Julie Fleishman, President of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. “Pancreatic cancer is one of the most lethal forms of cancer with a survival rate of six percent. Despite the terrifying statistics, it’s still one of the most overlooked types of cancer and research continues to be underfunded while the death toll climbs,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will ensure that the necessary strategy and resources are in place to improve the lives of those suffering from this terrible disease which today is in almost all cases a death sentence.” “Pancreatic cancer is a terrible disease which has hit home for thousands of families in Rhode Island and around the country,” said Whitehouse. “This legislation will help develop better treatments and provide hope to those suffering from pancreatic cancer.” “It is imperative that Congress work in a bipartisan, bicameral fashion on reducing the mortality rate for pancreatic cancer, the fourth leading cause of cancer death in the United States,” Lance said. “The Pancreatic Cancer Research & Education Act seeks to provide a greater focus on this disease while giving researchers the tools and resources they need to develop treatments and hopefully cures for pancreatic cancer patients.” “For 40 years, the survival rate for pancreatic cancer has remained in the single digits—despite an increase in the incidence of the disease, despite the fact that it is the fourth leading cause of cancer death and at a time when significant progress has been made on other cancers,” said Julie Fleshman, President and CEO of the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network. “The survival rate for pancreatic cancer has remained relatively the same because the federal government’s approach to pancreatic cancer has been relatively the same—provide a trickle of research funding as a response to a river of need.” A new report by the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network has found that a mere two percent of federal dollars distributed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) go towards pancreatic cancer research. The Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act will establish a national Pancreatic Cancer Initiative, creating a strategic plan for targeting the disease and giving NCI the tools it needs for earlier diagnosis, better treatment, and hope for a cure. Rep. Eshoo has introduced the Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act in the previous two Congresses. In the last Congress, the bill enjoyed the support of 247 bipartisan Members of Congress. ###
02.15.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo Praises Inclusion of Hangar One in Budget February 15th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), issued the following statement about the President’s Budget inclusion of $32.8 million for re-skinning Hangar One at Moffett Field: “I’m highly encouraged that the President has committed in his budget to preserve Moffett Field’s historic Hangar One. This is just the first step in the appropriations process and while there are many others, I’ll continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to see that this historic building and landmark in the heart of Silicon Valley is preserved for future generations.” Rep. Eshoo secured $28 million in the FY11 House Appropriations Bill and in the Senate-introduced Omnibus package. When the Senate failed to pass the Omnibus package, the funds were lost. ###
02.14.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Supports Extension of Proven Job Creation Program February 14th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that she is cosponsoring H.R. 11, the Build America Bonds to Create Jobs Now Act. The measure will extend the successful Build America Bonds program (BAB) which helps state and local governments finance the rebuilding of schools, hospitals, water systems, and transit projects at significantly lower costs. “Build America Bonds are a proven job creation tool. They use small public investments to generate significant private funds and financed over $37 billion in infrastructure projects in California over the past two years,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The program spurs job creation, repairs our crumbling infrastructure, and provides a solid ‘bang for the buck’ for taxpayers.” TIME Magazine called BAB “one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes and the Wall Street Journal named it a “Stimulus Plan Success Story.” With the program having expired at the end of 2010, H.R. 11 will extend BAB through 2012. Build America Bonds are a top priority for the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Association of Counties, National League of Cities, National Association of State Treasurers, Council of State Governments, and National Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers. Representatives of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Associated General Contractors of America have also supported the program. ###
02.10.2011	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls on Justice Thomas to Recuse Himself from Healthcare Consideration February 10th, 2011 Justice’s spouse has received hundreds of thousands of dollars from healthcare opponents Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), along with 75 Members of Congress, urged Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas to recuse himself from deliberations on the constitutionality of healthcare reform. The Justice’s spouse, Ginny Thomas, has financial ties to organizations dedicated to lobbying against the healthcare reform bill. “Justice Thomas’ wife has received hundreds of thousands of dollars from special interests dedicated to gutting healthcare reform. Ruling on the fate of the law when the Thomas’ stand to gain by its repeal would represent a clear conflict of interest,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It’s essential that Justice Thomas recuse himself and avoid staining our highest court with partiality.” Justice Thomas’ spouse is a paid lobbyist who has received $686,589 from the Heritage Foundation, a prominent conservative think tank and opponent of healthcare reform. Justice Thomas failed to report the sum until recently. Ms. Thomas has also received an undisclosed salary as the CEO of Liberty Central, a conservative organization that actively opposes the new law. ### Full Text of the Letter Dear Justice Thomas: As an Associate Justice, you are entrusted with the responsibility to exercise the highest degree of discretion and impartiality when deciding a case. As Members of Congress, we were surprised by recent revelations of your financial ties to leading organizations dedicated to lobbying against the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. We write today to respectfully ask that you maintain the integrity of this court and recuse yourself from any deliberations on the constitutionality of this act. The appearance of a conflict of interest merits recusal under federal law. From what we have already seen, the line between your impartiality and you and your wife’s financial stake in the overturn of health care reform is blurred. Your spouse is advertising herself as a lobbyist who has “experience and connections” and appeals to clients who want a particular decision – they want to overturn health care reform. Moreover, your failure to disclose Ginny Thomas’s receipt of $686,589 from the Heritage Foundation, a prominent opponent of health care reform, between 2003 and 2007 has raised great concern. This is not the first case where your impartiality was in question. As Common Cause points out, you “participated in secretive political strategy sessions, perhaps while the case was pending, with corporate leaders whose political aims were advanced by the [5-4] decision” on the Citizens United case. Your spouse also received an undisclosed salary paid for by undisclosed donors as CEO of Liberty Central, a 501(c)(4) organization that stood to benefit from the decision and played an active role in the 2010 elections. Given these facts, there is a strong conflict between the Thomas household’s financial gain through your spouse’s activities and your role as Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court. We urge you to recuse yourself from this case. If the US Supreme Court’s decision is to be viewed as legitimate by the American people, this is the only correct path. We appreciate your thoughtful consideration of this request. Sincerely, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo, Anthony D. Weiner, Al Green, E.B. Johnson, Wm. Lacy Clay, Russ Carnahan, Sheila Jackson-Lee, Karen Bass, Richard Neal, Peter Welch, Judy Chu, John Yarmuth, Betty Sutton, Ed Perlmutter, Gerald Connolly, Dennis Kucinich, Kendrick Meeks, Allyson Schwartz, Lloyd Doggett, Gwen Moore, Jared Polis, Maxine Waters, Donald Payne, Bobby Rush, Steve Cohen, Joseph Crowley, Eliot Engel, David Cicilline, Susan Davis, Albio Sires, Mike Doyle, Louise Slaughter, Jim McDermott, Nydia Velazquez, John Garamendi, André Carson, Michael Capuano, Shelley Berkley, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Tim Bishop, Barbara Lee, Joe Courtney, Rosa DeLauro, John Conyers, John Larson, George Miller, Leonard Boswell, Donna Edwards, Lois Capps, Xavier Becerra, Theodore Deutch, Steve Israel, Bill Owens, Laura Richardson, Clarke, Mazie Hirono, Gary Ackerman, Keith Ellison, Raul Grijalva, Chris Murphy, Lynn Woolsey, Peter DeFazio, Jesse Jackson Jr, Sylvester Reyes, Carolyn Maloney, Robert Andrews, Bill Pascrell, Bob Filner, Paul Tonko, Marcia Fudge, Maurice Hinchey, Mike Honda, Frank Pallone, Pete Stark
02.09.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against PATRIOT Act Extension February 9th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Last night Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 514, which would extend three controversial provisions of the PATRIOT Act. The bill failed on a vote of 277-148. It required a two-thirds majority to pass. “The PATRIOT Act granted the government dangerously broad powers in the name of security and at the expense of civil liberties,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We have now had nearly a decade to review the law and determine which provisions are necessary and which ones overreach. But this bill would extend the law, rubberstamping rather than reworking the most egregious provisions.” H.R. 514 would extend the following provisions: “Roving Wiretaps” – letting intelligence agencies undertake surveillance without identifying where or to whom the surveillance will occur. “Lone Wolf” authority – permitting broad, secret surveillance of any “non-U.S. person,” even if they are not affiliated with a foreign nation or foreign organization. “Library Provision” – allowing the FBI to obtain library circulation records, patron lists, bookstore records, and customer lists without a warrant or grand jury subpoena. In 2005, Rep. Eshoo introduced an amendment to overturn this provision. “The Library Provision permits the government to obtain anything tangible as long as it’s sought under the guise of a terrorism investigation,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It is repugnant to the principles of our nation that this intrusive policy remains on our books.” ###
01.25.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against “No Numbers” Budget January 25th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H. Res. 38, a so-called “budget plan” which purports to cut funding to 2008 levels, without any explanation of where the cuts will come from. “The ‘budget plan’ which the Republicans propose lacks the most basic element required of a budget—numbers. In my 18 years of service in Congress and a decade in county government, I’ve never seen a budget plan with no numbers,” Rep. Eshoo said. “My constituents deserve a clear strategy for reducing the deficit. The budget resolution should also be a roadmap for addressing how we can create jobs, strengthen our economy, and detailing what programs will be cut and where we will invest. These are tough decisions. They require a serious plan, not a numberless-nothing bill.” H. Res 38 passed the House by a vote of 256-165. ###
01.19.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against Repeal of Healthcare Reform January 19th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 2, the Republican bill to repeal healthcare reform, decrying the elimination of hard-won patient protections and the particular strain on seniors and the deficit. The bill passed the House by a vote of 245-189. “Last year, I voted to give millions of Americans the same healthcare options as I receive as a Member of Congress. Today, Republicans voted to take away those options and return our country to insurance companies setting the rules and patients having non alternatives,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Repeal would immediately strip the majority of my constituents of essential protections, removing the ban on lifetime caps, raising taxes on small business, and increasing prescription drug costs for seniors. It would also add $230 billion directly to the deficit over the next ten years and more than a trillion dollars over twenty years, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office.” The following would be the consequences for the people of California’s 14th Congressional District: Repealing the ban on insurers placing a lifetime cap on coverage would affect 461,000 individuals who have health insurance through their employer or the private insurance market and currently benefit from the new law. Repealing the insurance reform on ‘recissions’—dropping patients who become ill—would affect up to 291,000 individuals, including 36,000 children, with pre-existing conditions. These individuals include those who are breast cancer survivors and prostate cancer survivors, those living with heart disease, and those with chronic conditions such as asthma and high blood pressure. Repealing the insurance reform of allowing children to remain on their parents’ insurance until their 26th birthday would affect 2,800 young adults in the 14th Congressional District. Repealing the Medicare benefit would affect 9,500 seniors in the 14th Congressional District who hit the Part D drug “donut hole,” and it would deny new preventative care benefits to 83,000 seniors. Repeal of the law would eliminate health care tax credits available for up to 15,400 small businesses in the 14th Congressional District. Repeal would eliminate the ban on insurers dropping people from coverage when they get sick, which protects 17,000 individuals who purchase individual health insurance in the 14th Congressional District. Repeal would increase the costs of coverage for up to 8,200 early retirees in the 14th Congressional District. On January 6th Rep. Eshoo introduced an amendment to preserve the ban on lifetime caps despite the planned repeal by Republicans. More than half of all existing private health insurance policies have a lifetime cap buried in the fine print and once a patient hits the cap, they’re immediately dropped from their plan, regardless of their medical situation. The Rules Committee voted to prevent consideration of Rep. Eshoo’s amendment. ###
01.19.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Elected as Top Democrat of Telecommunications Subcommittee January 19th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) was elected Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology for the 112th Congress. She is the first woman in the history of the Subcommittee to serve in a leadership role. Throughout her career, Rep. Eshoo has been a leader on technology and telecommunications issues. She has authored legislation to establish standards for digital signatures, worked to expand broadband deployment, and ensured that life-saving, location-based E9-1-1 services are deployed by wireless companies. “I’m grateful to my colleagues for giving me the honor to lead the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology,” said Rep. Eshoo. “My Congressional District, home to Silicon Valley, is the innovation center of the world, and the policies we shape can advance America’s competitiveness and job growth.” Rep. Eshoo will work with her colleagues on expanding high-speed, affordable broadband, protecting electronic privacy, freeing up more spectrum and transitioning our nation’s 9-1-1 system to a next generation, IP-based network. Rep. Eshoo has been a strong champion of preserving an open Internet. Last week, Rep. Eshoo also announced that she will serve as a Co-chair of the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Internet Caucus, joining Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT), and Senator John Thune (R-SD). ###
01.11.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Co-Chairs Congressional Internet Caucus January 11th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that she will join Rep. Robert Goodlatte (R-VA) as House Co-chair of the Congressional Internet Caucus. “As the representative of the innovation capitol of our country, Silicon Valley, it is an honor to join Rep. Goodlatte, Senator Leahy, and Senator Thune as co-chairs of the Congressional Internet Caucus,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I look forward to working together to address the complex issues facing access, innovation, and the prosperity of the Internet.” The Congressional Internet Caucus is a bipartisan and bicameral group of over 150 members of the House and Senate. The mission of the Caucus is to educate fellow Members on the promise and potential of the Internet. Eshoo and Goodlatte are joined by Senate Co-chairs, Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) and Senator John Thune (R-SD). ###
01.06.2011	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Leads Effort to Preserve Ban on Lifetime Caps January 6th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – One of the most lauded provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is the elimination of lifetime caps, an insurance industry practice of limiting the total coverage an individual can receive on a health insurance plan over a lifetime. As House Republicans move to repeal the entire healthcare reform law, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced an amendment to preserve this provision. She testified before the House Rules Committee today to urge adoption of her amendment. “Today, almost everyone knows about the implications of lifetime insurance caps. Cancer patients in the middle of chemotherapy or teenage hemophiliacs in need of expensive blood clotting medications can be released from their insurer, regardless of their medical needs,’” Rep. Eshoo said. “Repealing the ban on lifetime caps will hurt disabled children as well as adults who face incredible health challenges. This is unwise, unfair, and unnecessary to do to the American people.” More than half of all existing private health insurance policies have a lifetime cap buried in the fine print. As medical costs have continued to increase, caps on insurance plans have stayed roughly the same. Most insurers set the cap at two to three million dollars, which may seem like a great deal of coverage when you’re healthy, but will not cover the expenses of a baby born with a lifetime disability, adults with chronic diseases, or those who struggle with a debilitating illness or accident. Rep. Eshoo has been working to eliminate lifetime caps for almost fifteen years, introducing legislation to address the problem in 1996. The bill, the Christopher Reeve Health Insurance Reform Act, was named after the actor who had a tragic equestrian accident that left him paralyzed and burdened with medical costs that would have put most people well over their lifetime cap in their insurance policy. ### Click to read Rep. Eshoo’s testimony from the House Committee on Rules.
01.06.2011	+ SHARE President Signs Eshoo Bill to Eliminate Lead in Drinking Water January 6th, 2011 Washington, D.C. – Last night President Obama signed S. 3874, the Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act, legislation written by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to remove the serious health threat and economic burden caused by lead exposure from household water sources. Small amounts of exposure can have serious health impacts, particularly on children, including kidney disease, reduced IQ, hypertension, hearing loss, and brain damage. Lead-related illness also costs an estimated $43 billion annually in lost wages and health expenditures, according to the Center for Disease Control (CDC). “Clean water is one of the most basic services we expect in our country, but every day families across the country consume lead when they drink water from their faucets,” Rep. Eshoo said. “In 21st century America, families have a right to clean water in their homes. Lead-free plumbing is an existing alternative, it’s affordable, and now it will be the standard across the nation, because it is the law.” The Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act effectively eliminates the health threat of lead exposure by reducing the allowable lead in plumbing faucets and fixtures from 8% to 0.25%. The bill is based on a successful 2006 California law, A.B. 1953, which required manufacturers to phase out potential exposure from materials in drinking water plumbing by 2010. The legislation received broad support from state health officials, numerous children’s health organizations, prominent national environmental organizations, local governments, scientific associations, national drinking water associations, and plumbing manufacturers. ###
12.22.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on the FCC’s Open Internet Order December 22nd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet, issued the following statement about the Internet access regulation approved today by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC): “As a consistent advocate of the openness and freedom which is the Internet’s hallmark, I’m concerned that the FCC missed an opportunity today to set out strong rules of the road to protect the essential character of the Internet – the open and free environment that has allowed technologies to develop and consumers to have access to a myriad of information, websites, and applications. This order is like driving with the emergency brake on – slow and tentative. It does not provide clarity in three important areas: “First, the rules do not offer mobile broadband the same protections as fixed access. It’s clear that mobile applications are the future of the Internet, and this order falls short on doing enough to protect an environment that would allow them to flourish. “Second, I remain concerned that the order will allow loopholes for Internet service providers to carve up the Internet into fast lanes and slow lanes to serve their private purposes, not the best interests of consumers. “And finally, in light of the inevitable court challenges, the Commission should have placed the open Internet framework on a firmer legal foundation. The Commission is instead relying on case by case enforcement of high level rules that are wide open to interpretation. “While something is better than nothing, the FCC must be vigorous in enforcing these rules to ensure that consumers will be able to choose their content on the Internet and not be blocked from doing so.” ###
12.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Keep America First in Research and Technology December 21st, 2010 COMPETES Legislation Will Double Fundingfor Basic Research Washington, D.C.- Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for a landmark investment in thescientific and technological research which has been critical to U.S. economicand technological leadership over the past half-century. H.R. 5325, the AmericaCOMPETES Reauthorization Act, will double authorized funding for basicresearch programs-the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy’sOffice of Science, and the labs at the National Institute of Standards andTechnology. It also will provide anarray of research and development grants, encourage high-risk, high-rewardenergy technology development, and create new programs to support regionalcollaboration in research and technology industries. “Innovation and technology are essential fields for drivingour economy and creating jobs, but we are in serious danger of falling behind ourglobal competitors in Europe and Asia,” Rep.Eshoo said. “This bill renews ourcommitment to generations to come and lays the groundwork for the technologicalbreakthroughs that will ensure our growth in the future.” The legislation will: Doublefunding for basic scientific research, crucial to some of our mostinnovative breakthroughs, over 10 years. Createjobs with innovative technology loan guarantees for small and mid-sizedmanufacturers and Regional Innovation Clusters (RICS) to expand scientificand economic collaboration. (Formore information on RICs, see this Brookings Institution op-ed). Promotehigh-risk, high reward research to pioneer cutting edge discoveries, byreauthorizing the Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy(ARPA-E). Last month, this Agencyawarded more than $10 million to Silicon Valleyprojects. Investin and improve science, math, technology, and engineering education at alllevels. Basic research powersthe national and Silicon Valley economies Since World War II, more than half of U.S. economic growth can beattributed to the development and adoption of new technologies. Basic research is the first step that leads tothese technologies. According to anew report by the Joint Economic Council, “The technological progresssupported by R&D has played a singular role in enhancing the productivityof businesses and workers and spawning new, job-creating industries, such asthe biotechnology sector.” Silicon Valley hashistorically been a substantial beneficiary of basic research funding, whichhas provided the foundation for the Valley’s largest tech, biotech, and energycompanies. Google, Cisco, and Genentech wereall spawned from federally funded research projects at Stanford University. “Federal funding and brilliant minds launched Silicon Valley as the heart of innovation forty years ago,”Rep. Eshoo said. “COMPETES is critical legislation to ensure that Silicon Valley and America retain globalleadership for the next forty years.” COMPETES is a product of the Innovation Agenda, which Rep. Eshoolaunched in Silicon Valley In 2005, Norm Augustine and the National Academy of Sciencespresented a report entitled “RisingAbove the Gathering Storm,” which detailed the grave need for the U.S.to enhance its basic research funding and math and science education. In response to the report, Rep. Eshoo, alongwith then-House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Rep.Zoe Lofgren, and Rep. George Miller, launched a series of meetings-beginning atStanford University-with the high-technology,biotechnology, venture capital and academic communities. They developed a set of policy proposals, the Innovation Agenda, tostrengthen American competitiveness. Theoriginal COMPETES legislation, passedin 2007, contained key elements of the Innovation Agenda. “That bill laid the foundation for America’sfuture success. It has already preparedthousands of teachers in math and science. It doubled the funding for the NSF, DOE’s Office of Science, NIST, andthe Manufacturing Extension Partnership over ten years. It established the new Advanced ResearchProjects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E), and funded high-risk, high-reward,pre-competitive technology development,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Today’s vote keepsthese investments in innovation on track.” H.R. 5325 has broad support with the endorsement of morethan 750 business, research and academic organizations, including Chamber ofCommerce, National Association of Manufacturers, Information TechnologyIndustry Council, Business Roundtable, TechNet, American Council on Education,and American Association for the Advancement of Science. It passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 261-148. ###
12.17.2010	+ SHARE Congress Passes Eshoo Legislation to Eliminate Lead in Drinking Water December 17th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today Congress passed legislation written by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to eliminate the serious health threat and economic burden caused by lead exposure from household water sources. S. 3874, the Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act (also known as Get the Lead Out), will update the national lead content standard to nearly eradicate lead in faucets and fixtures which currently contribute up to 20 percent of human lead exposure, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. The bill passed the House by a vote of 226-109. “In 21st century America, we have a responsibility to do more to protect our children and families against the lead exposure acquired through plumbing systems,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Lead-free plumbing is an existing alternative, it’s affordable, and it’s time we adopt it across the nation.” The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), which determines the national lead content standard, currently allows up to 8% lead content for faucets and other plumbing fixtures, and limits the amount of lead that can leach from plumbing into drinking water. But health studies have concluded that much smaller amounts of lead exposure can have serious impacts on children and adults, including kidney disease, reduced IQ, hypertension, hearing loss, and brain damage. The health impact of lead exposure also costs an estimated $43 billion annually in lost time, health costs, and related matters. Get the Lead Out reduces the allowable lead content from 8% to 0.25%—generally agreed to be a statistically insignificant amount of exposure. “California recognized the hazard lead poses and in 2006 enacted the toughest lead content standard for drinking water faucets, fittings, and plumbing systems anywhere in the world,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill is the next step. It represents a progressive and major effort that will eliminate the threat of lead in faucets and fixtures across the country.” The California law, A.B. 1953, enacted a new “lead free” standard, requiring manufacturers to phase out potential exposure from materials in drinking water plumbing by this year. Major plumbing fixture manufacturers produced lead-free faucets and fixtures at competitive prices ahead of statutory compliance deadlines. Since the California law, Vermont and Maryland have also adopted Get the Lead Out laws and the District of Columbia and Virginia have introduced similar legislation. Get the Lead Out has received the support of state health officials, numerous children’s health organizations, prominent national environmental organizations, local governments, scientific associations, national drinking water associations and the Association of California Water Agencies representing California’s drinking water suppliers. The Plumbing Manufacturers Institute, the association that represents all major faucet companies, also supports the legislation. Rep. Eshoo introduced Get the Lead Out (H.R. 5289) on May 12th and Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) introduced the legislation in the Senate (S. 3874, which passed yesterday) on September 29th. Both bills contain identical language. The Senate passed S. 3874 on December 16th by Unanimous Consent. Having passed both the House and the Senate, the bill will now be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
12.16.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes Against Tax Cuts for the Wealthy December 16th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today against the recently negotiated tax cut package by the President and Republicans. H.R. 4853, the Middle Class Tax Relief Act of 2010, would extend all of the Bush tax cuts for two years, including for the wealthiest Americans, and add nearly a trillion dollars to the deficit. Rep. Eshoo released the following statement about the bill: “I’m deeply disappointed in the recently negotiated tax deal by the White House. While one can find items that are politically and practically attractive—in its totality it borrows just shy of one trillion dollars to pay for, amongst other items, expiring tax breaks for the top two percent of our country. “My fear is that the 2001-2003 Bush tax cuts will become permanent, and our fiscal future will dim as America struggles with the largest transfer of wealth and debt creation in its history. We should instead be investing in capital formation, technological innovation, job creation, and education…the building blocks for a strong future for all Americans. “I’m also deeply concerned about borrowing from the General Fund to cover the reduction of payroll taxes. I believe this is a dangerous precedent for the Social Security system itself, and one we will come to regret. “So, for over 900 billion reasons, I oppose this bill.” H.R. 4853 passed the House by a vote of 277- 148.
12.16.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Support Veterans Attending College December 16th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to make it easier for veterans to receive a college education. S. 3447, the Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010 strengthens the New GI Bill, which Congress passed last year to provide veterans with up to four years of educational assistance. S.3447 expands and streamlines the benefits and educational opportunities in the New GI Bill. “This fall, 300,000 veterans across the nation will enroll in college and receive an education because of the New GI Bill,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Today’s vote strengthens that bill, helping veterans receive the educational training of their choice and making it easier for them to use their benefits. After putting their lives on the line for our nation, veterans deserve the best opportunities we can give them to succeed when they return, and that starts with an affordable education.” The Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010: Expands opportunities for training and education, covering vocational and technical schools, apprenticeships and on the job training that were not previously covered. Gives active duty students a book stipend of $1,000 per year, like veterans under the program. Provides living allowances for distance learners, like injured veterans forced to take online classes. Simplifies the Yellow Ribbon Program for veterans attending private colleges and universities and taking graduate courses, eliminating the confusing state cap system, and setting a $17,500 per year cap for tuition and fees. Grants full credit to National Guardsmen, including those called up to respond to national disasters like Hurricane Katrina or the BP oil spill. This will make more than 130,000 service members eligible for these education benefits. “This bill is not only good for our veterans, it is fiscally responsible,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It closes loopholes in the original legislation and eliminates the duplication of benefits, saving taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars.” The Post 9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Improvements Act of 2010 complies with the House “PAYGO” requirement, a provision in the House Rules which stipulates that legislation passed by the House cannot increase the federal deficit. The legislation is supported by the American Legion, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America, Disabled American Veterans, Military Officers Association of America, National Guard Association, National Association of Uniformed Services, and Student Veterans of America. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 409-3. It will now go to the President for his signature. ###
12.15.2010	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill to Quiet Loud TV Commercials Becomes Law December 15th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today President Obama signed legislation by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to quiet excessively loud television commercials. S. 2847, the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, prevents television advertisements from playing at a volume noticeably higher than the programs during which they air. Rep. Eshoo issued the following statement upon the bill’s signing into law: “With the signing of the CALM Act, the top consumer complaint to the Federal Communications Commission for over a half century is now addressed. Households across the country will now get the relief they deserve from the annoyance of blaringly loud television commercials. Consumers will no longer need to dive for the ‘mute’ button during commercial breaks. My simple, two-page bill reduces the volume of television commercials, allowing them to be no louder than regular programming. It gives the control of sound back to the consumer, where it belongs. While this small bill doesn’t solve the many challenges facing our country, it is a commonsense solution for a national nuisance. “I’m thrilled to see the CALM Act become law, bringing relief to consumers across the nation, and I’m grateful for the support I’ve received in this effort from every part of the country.” The CALM Act passed the Senate unanimously on September 29, 2010 and passed the House by a voice vote on December 2, 2010. ###
12.15.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Repeal Don’t Ask Don’t Tell December 15th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to end the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy. After the vote on H.R. 2965, the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal Act of 2010, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement: “I have opposed the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy since its inception in 1993. I voted to repeal it earlier this year, and I hope to finally dispose of it with today’s vote. This harmful policy is an affront to the principles of our nation and a hindrance to our national security. For nearly two decades it has prevented qualified men and women from openly serving their country. The recently released Pentagon report makes clear that our men and women in uniform, along with the vast majority of Americans, recognize this policy as being discriminatory and want to see an end to the law. “Since the enactment of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, our Armed Forces have discharged nearly 14,000 troops because of their sexual orientation, including hundreds of Arabic and Farsi interpreters. These are critical positions requiring specialized skills and we are turning qualified people away in a time of severe troop shortages. The Army and Marine Corps have been forced to reduce standards of eligibility just to reach minimum recruitment levels for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. This includes issuing ‘moral waivers’ to people with felony convictions. Meanwhile, our men and women in uniform work side-by-side with openly gay soldiers from thirteen coalition partners, including the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia, as well as U.S. officers and agents in the CIA, NSA, and FBI. “We have the most modern military on earth, with the exception of this harmful, discriminatory, and unnecessary policy. I’m proud to have cosponsored the Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell Repeal Act of 2010 and I look forward to its passage in the Senate. The bill will repeal the law, bring our military up to date and the law in-line with the principles of our country, and address this civil rights issue once and for all.” ### H.R. 2965 passed the House by a vote of 250-175.
12.09.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes the Obama Tax Deal December 9th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement about the tax “framework,” which Republicans agreed to with the President: “I’m deeply disappointed in the recently negotiated tax deal by the White House. While one can find items that are politically and practically attractive—in its totality it borrows just shy of one trillion dollars to pay for, amongst other items, expiring tax breaks for the top two percent of our country. My fear is that the 2001-2003 Bush tax cuts will become permanent, and our fiscal future will dim as America struggles with the largest transfer of wealth and debt creation in its history. We should instead be investing in capital formation, technological innovation, job creation, and education…the building blocks for a strong future for all Americans. “For 900 billion reasons, I oppose this bill.” ###
12.09.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on the Passage of the DREAM Act December 9th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – After the vote on H.R. 1751, the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a cosponsor of the legislation, released the following statement: “The American Dream is the dream of immigrants. It is the belief that our nation invests in those who possess the best ideas, the best work ethics, and the smartest business plans. It is the faith that our actions, not our ancestry, determine what we can achieve. The American Dream is when the daughter of immigrants can grow up and serve in Congress. “Across our country, millions of children who have lived here most of their lives—and know no other home—are denied access to their American dreams. These children live under threat of deportation because of their parents’ actions, not their own. It is wholly un-American to punish the child for the father’s sins. “The DREAM Act updates our laws to reflect the principles of our nation and preserve access to the American Dream for these children. The bill creates a path to legalization, dependent upon good moral character, hard work and service. In other words, American values. “In my Silicon Valley District, many foreign-born entrepreneurs have built uniquely American businesses—Google, Intel, and Yahoo, to name a few. These companies and many like them have grown our nation’s economy, spread our influence, and created hundreds of thousands of jobs for our citizens. These are the fruits of the American Dream. “With the passage of the DREAM Act, children across our nation will have the opportunity to be the next great business leader and create the next big idea. Our entire society will benefit from passage of this bill.” H.R. 1751 passed the House by a vote of 216-198. ###
12.08.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Testifies to Financial Services about SEC Regulation A December 8th, 2010 Testimony of Congresswoman Anna G. EshooHouse Committee on Financial Services Hearing“A Proposal to Increase the Offering Limit Under Regulation A” Remarks as Prepared Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) testified before the House Committee on Financial Services today about the proposal to increase the offering limit under the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Regulation A. Regulation A provides an exemption from the registration requirements normally applicable when an issuer seeks to raise capital by selling its securities to the public. The Committee is proposing to increase the dollar limit on securities offerings from $5 million to $30 million, to help small issuers—such as venture-capital backed companies—gain access to funding without the costs and delays associated with the full-scale securities registration process. Rep. Eshoo gave the following remarks before the Committee: “Thank you Mr. Chairman, and Members of the Committee for inviting me to testify today on a proposal to increase the offering limit under SEC Regulation A, which was enacted during the Great Depression to facilitate the flow of capital into small businesses. “As you know, I represent the innovation capital of our country – – Silicon Valley. We know if we don’t constantly innovate, we stagnate. “The larger policy context for raising the Regulation A limit from $5 million to $30 million, is to create what we are so desperate for – – jobs. We need to promote capital formation, technological innovation, and job creation and I think we can achieve these goals by revitalizing this non-working section of the Security Act. “So, what’s the problem and why should we consider increasing today’s limits in Regulation A? The main problem is that hardly anybody uses it. Currently, there is little incentive to support the small initial public offerings under Regulation A. In fact, the current regulations are a disincentive, burdening a $5 million offering with $1 to $2 million in underwriting expenses. At the same time, the threshold for traditional IPO funding has grown out of the reach of most small businesses, leaving companies without viable alternatives to raise money. “Two firms in my Congressional District – – Silicon Valley Bank and Wilson Sonsini – – have more than 9,000 private company clients between them, companies that are or will need an infusion of public capital. “Under a revised Regulation A, small companies would gain access to capital and a way to test the market to see if there is additional support. Regulation A will allow companies to seek small infusions of funds as they go along, and investors can demonstrate their confidence with their checkbooks. Without this access to public capital markets, good ideas are withering on the vine. “The impact of this recession on the venture capital market cannot be understated. It’s been devastating. “But even against the backdrop of an economy where investment funds are scarce, there are signs of recovery in deals of $100 million or more. The top end is on its way to recovery, aided, no doubt, by federal investment in new clean, green and medical technologies. But at the low end – deals of $50 million or less – traditional IPO capital has disappeared and has not come back. In 2004, there were 40 initial public offerings at $50 million or less, in 2005, there were 38 initial public offerings at $50 million or less. In 2009, there was one, clearly the existing IPO structure is not getting the job done for smaller companies. “Raising the Regulation A cap from $5 million to $30 million is a jobs program – good jobs, that are focused on the cutting edge of innovation, creating new products, new markets and additional growth for our economy. And it would create those jobs here in the United States. “In considering whether to raise the limits it’s useful to examine the history. In 1933, Congress originally set the dollar limit under Regulation A at $100,000. It has raised the limit several times since then, $300,000 in 1945 $500,000 in 1972 $1,500,000 in 1978 $2,000,000 also in 1978 $5,000,000 in 1980 – but the SEC waited until 1992 before adopting the same change in its rule. “In Silicon Valley, companies seeking capital for the next breakthrough technologies are finding available capital in other parts of the world. We’re falling behind as the world’s technology leader and a few simple modifications could make Regulation A an engine for capital formation and economic growth. “Congress, of course, must weigh the potential risks to investor protection and the potential benefits associated with making Regulation A a meaningful capital conduit as it was originally intended. The SEC can and should use its recently reinvigorated enforcement program to prevent abuses. “But make no mistake… there is pent-up demand. The money is available and investors are willing. Today, there are unnamed ventures that have the potential to be the future Googles, Genentechs, Facebooks and eBays. And we can do something to help make this happen. “It is a modest proposal with a high potential for capital formation, technological innovation, and job creation in the United States. “For all these reasons, I urge the committee to give all due consideration to this proposal to raise the cap on Regulation A offerings. “Thank you.”
12.03.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on FCC Net Neutrality Order December 3rd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement about the draft net neutrality order released by Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski. I’m pleased that Chairman Genachowski has taken the first step towards establishing rules to protect a free and open Internet. From the get-go, I’ve believed the FCC should take the strongest possible action to preserve the open environment of the Internet which has allowed innovation to flourish, protected consumer choices, and fostered additional investments. More work needs to be done before the order is finalized on a number of fronts. The rules should ensure an even playing field for both wireline and wireless broadband Internet access; Consumer protections should not be dependent on how they connect to the Internet; The final order should make clear that the internet will not be divided into fast lanes and slow lanes — whether by prohibiting the paid prioritization of traffic or ensuring that those who carry only partial internet traffic are exempt. Finally, the commission should be able to enforce not only the letter of the order, but any attempts to evade the spirit of the order. “I look forward to working with Chairman Genachowski and the Commission as they develop guidelines for the Internet that will take us into the future.” ###
12.02.2010	+ SHARE Congress Passes Bill to Quiet Loud TV Commercials December 2nd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Congress approved legislation by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to quiet excessively loud television commercials today, when the House of Representatives passed S. 2847, the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, by a voice vote. The bill will prevent television advertisements from playing at a volume noticeably higher than the programs during which they air. “Consumers have been asking for a solution to this problem for decades, and today they finally have it.” Rep. Eshoo said. “The CALM Act gives consumers peace of mind, because it puts them in control of the sound in their homes.” Since the 1960’s, the Federal Communications Commission has been receiving consumer complaints about commercials being louder than television programming. Loud television commercials have also been listed as a top consumer complaint in 21 of the FCC’s last 25 quarterly reports. Nevertheless, current FCC policy recommends that consumers “mute” commercials when they find them excessively strident. Under the CALM Act, the FCC must require advertisers to adopt industry technology which modulates sound levels and prevents overly loud commercials within one year. “TV programs use a variety of sound levels to build dramatic effect. But advertisements have been neither subtle nor nuanced,” Rep. Eshoo said. “My bill reduces commercial volume, allowing them to only be as loud as the decibel level of regular programming. Consumers will no longer have to experience being blasted at. It’s a simple fix to a huge nuisance.” The CALM Act passed the Senate on September 29, 2010. Having passed both the House and the Senate, the bill will now be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. “Most Americans experience the frustration of abrasively loud television commercials, with advertisers grabbing for our attention through this intrusive practice,” said Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), who sponsored the bill in the Senate. “While this is far from the biggest issue we face, it will mean one less daily annoyance in our lives. I appreciate the House’s action and congratulate Representative Eshoo.” ###
11.05.2010	+ SHARE Members of Congress Express Condolences for Victims of Church Hostage Crisis in Baghdad November 5th, 2010 Call on the Administration to Develop Comprehensive Policy to Protect Indigenous Religious Communities in Iraq Washington, D.C. – In the wake of the hostage crisis which occurred at Our Lady of Salvation Catholic Church in Baghdad, Iraq, U.S. Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) and Frank Wolf (VA-10), who co-chair the Religious Minorities in the Middle East Caucus, as well as several other Representatives, sent a letter today to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, calling for the Obama Administration to develop a comprehensive policy for the protection of indigenous religious communities in Iraq. Members of Congress also offered condolences to the victims and their families. Rep. Eshoo said: “As an Assyrian American, the plight of Iraq’s indigenous religious communities has always held a very personal significance for me. Nearly constant violence has been a tragic consequence of our involvement in Iraq, and without clear action from the U.S. government, Iraq’s ancient Christian community faces extinction. The horrific attack and loss of life once again underscores the need for a concrete strategy to protect Iraq’s religious minorities.” Rep. Wolf said: “Our thoughts and prayers are with the families of the victims of the hostage crisis at Our Lady of Salvation Catholic Church in Baghdad. This horrific attack against Christians gathered in their place of worship is symptomatic of a much larger problem—namely that Iraq’s ancient faith communities are being systematically targeted and driven from the land they have inhabited for centuries, threatening their very existence in modern day Iraq. Successive administrations have failed to recognize the unique needs of these indigenous faith communities and to prioritize their protection and preservation. This neglect comes at a grave cost. We can only hope that this tragedy will prompt a renewed focus on the plight of these vulnerable communities.” Rep. Mark Steven Kirk said: “I condemn in the strongest terms the horrific attack on the Our Lady of Salvation Catholic Church in Baghdad and extend my deepest condolences to the victims and their families. We must recognize that this reprehensible act specifically targeted the Iraqi Christians, continuing an alarming pattern of violence against vulnerable minority groups in Iraq. In the wake of this tragedy, I call on the Iraqi government, the Obama Administration, as well as international stakeholders, to prioritize the protection of indigenous religious communities in Iraq.” Rep. Trent Franks said: “This devastating attack, which claimed the lives of 58 people who committed no offense other than having the ‘nerve’ to be Christian, reminds us that the precious freedoms we enjoy as Americans are not a given in other parts of the world. Despite the incredible progress Iraq has made over the past decade, it can never truly be said that Iraq is a wholly free and stable representative of Democracy in the Middle East until religious minorities are able to put their beliefs into action without fear of reprisal. I join my colleagues in mourning the lives senselessly lost as a result of this cowardly violence and I call on the Obama Administration to prioritize an articulated strategy for Iraq’s indigenous religious community.” Rep. Chris Smith: “The devastation suffered by members of Our Lady of Salvation Catholic Church—and of all religious minorities in Iraq—is almost beyond the comprehension of those of us who live in a country where the human right of religious freedom is respected. Nearly half of the worshipers died, and those who survived were wounded in body and spirit by the psychotic hatred of those who would control the free world through terror. We must protect, as first priority, the courageous believers who dare to follow their conscience rather than be controlled by fear. It is they who help lead the way in the fight for freedom and democracy in Iraq.” Rep. Scott Garrett: “I extend my deepest condolences to the family members and loved ones of those who perished on Sunday at Our Lady of Salvation Catholic Church. As thousands of Iraqis continue to be the victims of ethnic and religious discrimination in Iraq, I encourage Secretary Clinton to develop a strategy to address the ongoing atrocities. The United States was founded on the principles of freedom and equality, and should strongly resist the intolerance that fueled the recent hostage crisis in Baghdad.” ### Click here to view the letter.
11.05.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Supports Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s Candidacy for Minority Leader November 5th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement in support of Speaker Pelosi’s announced bid for the Minority Leader position: “I’m deeply grateful and highly encouraged that Speaker Pelosi has made the decision to run for Minority Leader. I believe we need her now more than ever, as does the country. “I have the privilege of representing the innovation capitol of our country and the world—Silicon Valley. Nancy Pelosi enjoys the utmost regard of all the Valley’s leaders across the high-technology, biotechnology, telecommunications, scientific and venture capital sectors. They respect her demonstrated knowledge and leadership on what is necessary to move our economy forward and ensure that the United States of America remains number one. It was her leadership that not only produced the Innovation Agenda, but implemented it in its entirety in Congress, producing historic investments in science, technology, engineering and math education, broadband adoption, and research and development funding. “Nancy Pelosi’s in-depth knowledge of intelligence issues, developed over her years of service on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence—the longest tenure of any member—is critical to our national security. She holds unquestioned credentials in this key area. “Nancy Pelosi is the person we need to help America recover, to help the Democrats recover, and to help restore the confidence of every American. “I’m proud to support her.” ###
10.05.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Calls for Bank Investigations October 5th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), along with thirty other Members of the California Congressional Delegation, urged the federal government to investigate the handling of delinquent mortgages, mortgage modifications, and foreclosures by financial institutions. In a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder, Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, and Comptroller of the Currency John Dugan, the Delegation outlined systemic misconduct on the part of lenders and servicers, and requested the agencies investigate possible violations of law or regulations. “Thousands of constituents from my Congressional District and across California have reported deceit and mishandling of their mortgages and foreclosures,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Far too many forms are lost, requirements are misrepresented, and phone calls go unanswered to consider this coincidental. The foreclosure crisis is hurting my constituents, our economy, and our country, and the federal government has a responsibility to get to the bottom of it.” ### Read the full text of the letter by clicking here. Read examples of California housing cases by clicking here.
09.30.2010	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill on Arthritis Passes the House of Representatives September 30th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed legislation last night to alleviate the health and economic cost of arthritis, the leading cause of disability in the United States. The bipartisan Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act (H.R. 1210), authored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), bolsters federal juvenile arthritis research and provides federal support for initiatives to educate the public and health professionals about controlling and preventing arthritis. “The number of adults suffering from arthritis in our country is more than the entire population of California and Massachusetts combined. More children are afflicted with the disease than suffer from juvenile diabetes. Each year the economic cost of the disease totals more than a percentage point of our national GDP,” Rep. Eshoo said. “But despite the high personal and financial cost, there is no cure and many of those suffering are not receiving the care or the basic information they need to manage the disease.” According to the latest statistics from the Center for Disease Control, the total cost of arthritis and other rheumatic conditions is over $128 billion per year. 46.3 million Americans live with the disease, including more than 300,000 children. While early intervention and treatment is critical for children with arthritis and related diseases, many states lack sufficient specialists to treat them. Eight states are without even one pediatric rheumatologist and five states have only one. “This bill will provide states and non-profits the resources they need to tackle this debilitating disorder,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It invests in the critical needs of children and adults suffering from arthritis, and in research that will alleviate the costs to future generations of Americans who are diagnosed. I’m proud the House has passed it and I’ll continue to fight for this legislation until it’s signed into law.” The Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act enhances the National Arthritis Action Plan by supporting federal, state, and private arthritis research, prevention, and management efforts. It also focuses attention on juvenile arthritis research by creating planning grants for innovative research and career development grants to encourage more health professionals to enter the field of pediatric rheumatology. There are 180 bipartisan cosponsors of the legislation, including 49 Republicans. The bill has also received the support of the Arthritis Foundation, the American Physical Therapy Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the American College of Rheumatology. “The staggering social and economic impact of arthritis on American society is unacceptable,” said Dr. John Klippel, president and CEO of the Arthritis Foundation. “We commend Rep. Eshoo for her leadership and dedication in fighting for legislation that invests in critical research and prevention for better treatments and a cure.” H.R. 1210 passed the House by unanimous consent. ###
09.30.2010	+ SHARE NASA Authorization a Win for California, Ames September 30th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed S. 3729, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Authorization Act of 2010, to reauthorize America’s space programs, reinvest in science and technology research and education, and encourage the development of the commercial space industry. The legislation maintains robust funding for science and aeronautics while funding the development of new exploration technology, space technology, commercial spaceflight, and robotic precursors. “This year’s NASA Authorization Act will rejuvenate the spirit of exploration that has characterized the agency since its foundation. It shifts focus from maintaining an aging shuttle fleet to a renewed focus on scientific exploration and technological discovery,” Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) said. “California is the natural place for NASA’s new, innovative direction to begin. Our NASA centers, including Ames, are the nation’s leaders in technology research and will benefit from an increased focus on R&D. Investment in the commercial space industry will lower costs for NASA, while creating high-tech jobs throughout the state. The bill is a win for NASA and it is a win for our state and workforce.” In July, the House Science and Technology Committee passed a NASA Authorization bill that would have continued the over-budget and behind-schedule Constellation program, disregarded key workforce provisions and shortchanged funding for commercial spaceflight and technology research and development programs. In response, Rep. Eshoo spearheaded a letter from 13 members of the California delegation to Rep. Bart Gordon, Chairman of the House Science and Technology Committee supporting a budget with “a sustainable architecture” to ensure NASA remains “an innovative exploration agency.” After Chairman Gordon met with Rep. Eshoo, he announced that the House would not vote on the Committee bill and instead take up the Senate-passed bill which is more in-line with the goals detailed in the letter. “I was proud to fight for investments to invigorate our space program and encourage job growth in cutting-edge research and commercial sectors,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The bill will also provide the workforce at NASA Ames, and related industries around the country, with the certainty, stability and support they deserve for the truly inspiring work they do.” The NASA Authorization Act of 2010 passed the House by a vote of 304-118. ###
09.30.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Oversight of the Intelligence Community September 30th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the Intelligence Committee and Chair of the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, issued the following statement after the passage of H.R.2701, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010: “After five long years we will soon have an Intelligence Authorization Bill enacted into law. Passage of this Act will reassert Congress’ role in the oversight of our nation’s intelligence agencies. We have a special duty to oversee intelligence activities because our nation’s security is at stake. “As Chair of the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, I’ve had a particular interest in Congressional oversight and the tools to improve it. This bill contains many provisions that will improve congressional oversight of intelligence activities. “First, the bill requires the DNI to establish procedures to allow GAO access to intelligence community information. This provision will clarify the guidelines under which GAO may audit the intelligence community, while recognizing that GAO, on behalf of the intelligence committees, has authority to do so. “The new DNI Clapper noted the value of GAO studies during his confirmation hearing. This provision will give him the opportunity to live up to his words. “Second, the bill modifies statutory authorization for the so-called ‘Gang of Eight’ procedure, and raises the threshold for this limited notification. It requires that the President inform all Members of the intelligence committees that a ‘Gang of Eight’ briefing has occurred and provide a “general description” of that briefing. All Committee Members will receive a full briefing six months after the Gang of Eight briefing unless the President continues to certify that “extraordinary circumstances” still exist that require a limited briefing. “Finally, the bill creates a statutory and independent inspector general for the Intelligence Community, with all the investigative powers to look into all intelligence community programs and report to Congress. This will provide a much needed new tool for oversight, particularly on increasingly critical issues related to coordination between intelligence agencies. “This bill strengthens the prerogatives of Congress.” Having passed the House, the legislation will now be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
09.29.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Chinese Currency Fairness and U.S. Job Creation September 29th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to take action against currency manipulation by the Chinese government that places American manufacturers and exporters at a severe disadvantage. H.R. 2378, the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, will directly address the Chinese government’s inaction in the face of repeated American requests for currency revaluation. The artificially devalued Chinese Renminbi has cost thousands of American manufacturing jobs and contributed to our ongoing trade deficit with China. “I would have preferred to see the Chinese allow their currency to assume a market value on their own, but after years of cajoling and demands, they failed to act,” Rep. Eshoo said. “As millions of Americans struggle to find work, we can’t sit on our hands while Chinese policies contribute to the elimination of more American jobs. If the Chinese won’t revalue their own currency, we need to provide our government with the tools to enforce a level playing field.” The legislation requires the Secretary of Commerce to consider whether the Chinese currency’s artificially low value represents an export subsidy, and if it does, to impose countervailing duties on Chinese imports. According to research by the Peterson Institute, allowing Chinese currency to rise to its actual market value could create 500,000 U.S. manufacturing jobs. H.R. 2378 passed the House by a vote of 348-79. ###
09.23.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Small Business Lending and Tax Relief September 23rd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to provide additional tax relief and greater access to capital to small businesses. H.R. 5297, the Small Business Lending Fund Act of 2010 will offer $15 billion in small business tax relief and create a $30 billion fund to loosen lending from community banks to small businesses. The legislation is expected to support up to $300 billion in small business lending, which could create as many as a half million jobs. “Small businesses are the backbone of our country’s job creation and its greatest source of innovation. As credit has dried up, small businesses have been unable to get loans to hire and expand,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill is another step to get our economy back on track. It will help small businesses access lending and tax incentives to put Americans back to work.” Key provisions of the bill would: Create a $30 billion Small Business Lending Fund to encourage lending by community banks with less than $10 billion in assets and establish a $1.5 billion fund to assist state and local government programs that help businesses receive capital; Increase the size of Small Business Administration general business loans from $2 million to $5 million and microloans from $35,000 to $50,000; Permit self-employed business owners to deduct their family’s health insurance benefits from their self employment tax income in 2010; Temporarily increase to 100% the capital gains exclusion for stock issued by some small businesses through the end of the year; Allow general business credits of eligible small businesses for 2010 to be carried back five years. H.R. 5297 complies with the House “PAYGO” requirement, a provision in the House Rules which stipulates that legislation passed by the House cannot increase the federal deficit. The legislation passed by a vote of 237-187. It will now be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
09.23.2010	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill on Arthritis Passes Energy and Commerce Committee September 23rd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee passed legislation today to alleviate the health and economic cost of arthritis, the leading cause of disability in the United States. The bipartisan Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act (H.R. 1210), authored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), bolsters federal juvenile arthritis research and provides federal support for initiatives to educate the public and health professionals about controlling and preventing arthritis. “The number of adults suffering from arthritis in our country is more than the entire population of California and Massachusetts combined. More children are afflicted with the disease than suffer from juvenile diabetes. Each year the economic cost of the disease totals more than a percentage point of our national GDP,” Rep. Eshoo said. “But despite the high personal and financial cost, there is no cure and many of those suffering are not receiving the care or the basic information they need to manage the disease.” According to the latest statistics from the Center for Disease Control, the total cost of arthritis and other rheumatic conditions is over $128 billion per year. 46.3 million Americans live with the disease, including more than 300,000 children. While early intervention and treatment is critical for children with arthritis and related diseases, many states lack sufficient specialists to treat them. Eight states are without even one pediatric rheumatologist and five states have only one. “I’m very proud that my bipartisan legislation has been passed by the Energy and Commerce Committee. The bill will provide states and non-profits the resources they need to tackle this debilitating disorder,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It invests in the critical needs of children and adults suffering from arthritis, and in research that will alleviate the costs to future generations of Americans who are diagnosed. I’ll continue to fight for this legislation until it’s signed into law.” The Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act enhances the National Arthritis Action Plan by supporting federal, state, and private arthritis research, prevention, and management efforts. It also focuses attention on juvenile arthritis research by creating planning grants for innovative research and career development grants to encourage more health professionals to enter the field of pediatric rheumatology. 180 Members of Congress are cosponsors of the bipartisan legislation, including 49 Republicans. The bill has also received the support of the Arthritis Foundation, the American Physical Therapy Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the American College of Rheumatology. “The staggering social and economic impact of arthritis on American society is unacceptable,” said Dr. John Klippel, president and CEO of the Arthritis Foundation. “We commend Rep. Eshoo for her leadership and dedication in fighting for legislation that invests in critical research and prevention for better treatments and a cure.” Having passed the Energy and Commerce Committee, the bill will next be considered by the full House. ###
09.08.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises the Call for Extension of the R&D Tax Credit September 8th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Co-Chair of the House High Tech Caucus, released the following statement about President Obama’s call for Congress to extend and expand the Research and Development Tax Credit: “The private sector has always been America’s engine for job creation and the best public policy provides the tools to help the engine run strong. The R&D tax credit is one of the most essential tools, because it spurs investment in the new technologies that will shape tomorrow’s economy and create the jobs of the future. I’m pleased by the President’s call today for the extension, expansion, and simplification of the credit. There are very few easy answers to improving the economic outlook of our nation, and the R&D tax credit is one of them. “For eighteen years in Congress and three Administrations, I’ve worked to make the R&D tax credit permanent. In February, I led 120 Members of Congress, including 47 Republicans, to join me in urging the expansion of the credit. We wrote, ‘[the credit] has proven to be one of the best methods to encourage investment and employment in the United States, especially in the area of high-technology.’ “It’s estimated that expansion of the R&D credit would increase annual GDP by almost a hundred billion dollars and create 162,000 jobs just in the short-term. Long-term, it will help our nation retain high-skilled jobs and maintain competitiveness in the global market.” ###
08.24.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Save Over 16,000 California Education August 24th, 2010 Coming soon.
08.18.2010	+ SHARE California Congressional Members Applaud Announcement of $205 Million in Recovery Act Funding for California Broadband Projects August 18th, 2010 Decision Comes in Response to Letter Spearheaded by Reps. Eshoo, Matsui Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Rep. Doris Matsui (D-Sacramento), commended the National Telecommunications and Information Administration’s (NTIA) announcement that California will receive Recovery Act funding totaling $205,147,578 for seven Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) projects in the state. The Bay Area alone will receive over $50 million to expand broadband service to emergency first responders and “anchor institutions,” such as schools and libraries. “Every day the Internet becomes a more influential and critical resource for education, free speech, and commerce around the world. When a child cannot access the Internet, she suffers a severe disadvantage to her peers. This is one reason we specifically crafted language in the Recovery Act to fund broadband deployment to underserved areas,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’ve worked on this issue for a long time and I’m so pleased today, because these vital grants are a real victory for California’s children, our first responders, and our nation.” On July 30, Rep. Eshoo and Rep. Matsui sent a letter to NTIA Assistant Secretary and Administrator Lawrence Strickling urging the NTIA to give greater consideration to California BTOP applications in the next round of Recovery Act funding. NTIA announced their decision to award California over $205 million in BTOP funding early Wednesday. “In our increasingly connected world, it is important that all Americans have access to, and a comfort with, broadband technology,” said Rep. Matsui. “I am pleased that California has been awarded these funds, and that the Los Rios College District will be among the beneficiaries. These awards will assist both urban and rural communities throughout California in bridging the digital divide and ensuring that our citizens are able to be active participants in all aspects of society.” “The California Emerging Technology Fund commends the California Congressional Delegation for aggressively advocating for federal investment in needed broadband infrastructure,” commented Sunne Wright McPeak, President and CEO of the Fund. “We are especially appreciative of Congresswomen Matsui and Eshoo in coordinating the submission of a letter from the Delegation to the Administration. And, we are grateful that NTIA has recognized that the needs are great in California with 44,000 square miles of rural and remote communities still un-served and underserved in our state–an area as large as the State of Kentucky–and more than 10 million residents still not connected with broadband to the Internet–a population comparable to the State of Illinois. This investment in California is a major step forward in closing the Digital Divide in America.” California BTOP Projects Funded By Today’s Awards: Foundation for CA Community Colleges: $ 10,944,843 California Connects will provide outreach, training, and learning support to increase digital literacy skills and broadband usage. Laptops and software training will be provided to lower-income students. An open source, online, digital literacy course will be developed and provided to students and their families and accessed at libraries and other public computer centers throughout California. California Broadband Cooperative, Inc., Digital 395 Project: $81,148,788 Digital 395 is a 583 mile fiber optic network between Carson City NV and Barstow CA providing Mid-Mile broadband & route diversity to 15% of California. Serving 25,949 households, 2571 businesses, 237 anchors, & 68 POIs in the Eastern Sierra, the Cooperative represents a CPUC-funded public-private partnership aimed at long-term economic development. It creates 1107 shovel-ready jobs over 2 years. CENIC/Cvin: 18 counties in the Central Valley — Middle Mile: $46,619,757 CVIN/CENIC will build a 1371 mile fiber-optics infrastructure through 18 California counties: Amador, Calaveras, Colusa, El Dorado, Fresno, Kings, Kern, Mariposa, Merced, Madera, Nevada, Placer, San Joaquin, Stanislaus, Sutter, Tuolumne, Tulare & Yuba providing direct fiber connectivity to 63 anchor institutions & access by another 40 anchor sites & hundreds of thousands of businesses & residences. Motorola: BayWeb public safety project for Greater Bay Area: $50,593,551 The project is a public-private partnership between Motorola, public safety agencies, and broadband providers in the San Francisco Bay area. The project will deploy a comprehensive Middle Mile network that will expand broadband service for emergency responders utilizing LTE technology and offer wireless broadband service to community anchor institutions and residential and business end users. Plumas Sierra Rural Electric: Middle Mile project: $ 13,770,240 The Plumas-Sierra Telecommunications (PST) CCI project is a fiber optic Open Access network that traverses through parts of Plumas, Sierra, and Lassen County that are unserved and underserved. The PST Middle Mile project is a collaborative regional effort. ZeroDivide: Tribal project in rural San Diego: $686,157 ZeroDivide’s “Tribal Digital Village Broadband Adoption Program” will increase broadband adoption from the 17% current baseline usage to 70% (4800 new broadband users) among members of 19 Native American tribes in rural So. California. This will be accomplished through outreach & public awareness, digital literacy training, content creation, and establishment of sustainable business models. ZeroDivide: Shared project between CA, HI, NM, OR, UT, and WA: $1,384,242 ZeroDivide will expand broadband access to low-income youth in communities across these six states. The project plans to provide training and support services to encourage sustainable adoption and technology awareness with a focus on disadvantaged communities. Total: $205,147,578 ###
08.16.2010	+ SHARE Eshoo, Markey, and Inslee Letter to FCC on Open Internet August 16th, 2010 Lawmakers Urge FCC to Take Action to Preserve Free and Open Internet WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Representative Edward J. Markey (D-MA), co-authors of comprehensive net neutrality legislation in the House, along with Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA) and Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA), today released a letter to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski to urge the FCC to take action to preserve the free, open nature of the Internet. The letter by the four lawmakers, all of whom currently serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet, follows a proposal by Google and Verizon that would result in significant changes to the way the Internet currently operates, including the potential that certain Internet content could be prioritized. Rep. Eshoo said: “In my Silicon Valley district there are people building the next generation of internet breakthroughs. We cannot undermine their success by ‘cable-izing’ the Internet. That’s why my colleagues and I remain steadfast in our commitment to net neutrality. The reactions to the legislative proposal from Google and Verizon demonstrate that it is not nearly strong enough to meet this standard. This letter is a clear statement of the principles that we believe are necessary to preserve openness on the Internet to allow the kind of innovation and growth that is the hallmark of today’s Internet. I remain optimistic that Chairman Genachowski will be able to find a path forward that honors these principles.” Rep. Markey said: “No private interest should be permitted to carve up the Internet to suit its own purposes. The open Internet has been an innovation engine that has helped power our economy, and fiber-optic fast lanes or tiers that slow down certain content would dim the future of the Internet to the detriment of consumers, competition, job creation and the free-flow of ideas. In our letter, we express our strong support for Chariman Genachowski’s ‘Third Way’ proposal to bring the benefits of broadband to all Americans and encourage the FCC to move forward to preserve the free, open nature of the Internet.” Rep. Inslee said: “Americans online experience shouldn’t be dictated by corporate CEO’s,” said Rep. Inslee. “Innovation and creativity online have given rise to millions of jobs and tremendous economic growth, in large part because individual consumers have been free to access what they want. The principles we have set forth in this letter coincide with that fact. Net neutrality is not about imposing a new set of rules, net neutrality is about preserving the open Internet and empowering consumers and small businesses to bring the next generation of entrepreneurial drive to the world wide web.” Rep. Doyle said: “The power of the Internet comes from the ability of everyone to find anything anywhere – or to put anything on it for the world to see. The internet’s value comes from the fact that it’s not like any other communications platform before it. I am concerned that the proposal put forward by Google and Verizon could have the effect of choking off much of the most important, creative, and valuable contributions the Internet can make to the idea-driven economy of the 21st century. At a time when research shows that low-income Americans are the fastest-growing users of the mobile web, it would be short-sighted to wall-off those users from the open internet and all of its benefits. My constituents know the benefit of an open Internet and they’ve urged me to press the FCC to address this issue quickly. That’s why I signed this letter to the Chairman Genachowski urging him to continue to work to preserve those essential qualities of the Internet.” ### Download a copy of the letter (PDF).
08.10.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Save Over 16,000 California Education Jobs August 10th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to save the jobs of over 160,000 teachers across the country, and 16,500 in California alone. H.R. 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act, provides $10 billion in grants to allow local school districts to hire and retain teachers. The legislation also closes loopholes in the tax code that companies have used to send jobs overseas, and provides additional federal funding to avoid deep cuts in Medicaid and other critical services, such as police, fire, and other first responders. “This legislation was too important to wait another day, and I’m pleased to come back to Washington to vote for it. It provides our communities with the most basic, fundamental services,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Today’s vote will keep teachers in the classroom, police officers on the beat, and first responders on alert. The legislation throws a lifeline to our communities which are struggling under tremendous financial pressure.” The bill includes a six-month extension of increased federal funding to help states cover the costs of their Medicaid programs. This will relieve part of the burden on state and local governments which had already budgeted for federal assistance to Medicaid. Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act is fully paid for and will not increase the deficit. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates the legislation will reduce the deficit by $1.4 billion over ten years. The legislation passed by a vote of 247-161. ###
08.09.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Google/Verizon Net Neutrality Proposal August 9th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement in response to Google and Verizon’s policy proposal on net neutrality: “I look forward to reviewing the details of the Google/Verizon proposal. While I appreciate Google and Verizon’s commitment to net neutrality on the wired internet, as more internet traffic moves to wireless devices, we need to preserve net neutrality there as well. Consumers, not carriers, should determine which applications they want to use. At the end of the day, Congress and the FCC will decide the rules for net neutrality, not the companies. I remain convinced that net neutrality is necessary to ensure the continued development and innovation on the internet.” ###
08.05.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Reported Google-Verizon Deal August 5th, 2010 Washington, D.C.—Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that Google and Verizon were in discussion on net neutrality: “I have real concerns about the reports of a potential deal between Verizon and Google on net neutrality. FCC Chairman Genachowski is making progress on net neutrality, but he must act quickly to protect an open and free internet. And I believe these reported side deals by companies risk undermining his efforts. Premium pricing for access to the internet, whether accessing it via phone or internet, is bad for consumers, especially those who can’t afford to pay for high speed access. This would widen the gap between the haves and the have-nots. I remain a champion to ensure that the next Google is able to flourish on the internet, and not have its content sit in the slow lane.”
07.30.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Calls on the Supreme Court to Reopen its Main Entrance July 30th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – On May 3, 2010, Chief Justice John Roberts announced that visitors would no longer be allowed to enter through the main doors of the Supreme Court, closing the entrance to the public for the first time since the building was completed in 1935. Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto, CA) introduced a resolution calling on the Supreme Court to reopen the main entrance to the public once again which bears the inscription “Equal Justice Under Law.” “The Supreme Court was built to represent ‘the national ideal of justice’ and access to the nation’s highest court has always symbolized openness and transparency in our justice system,” Rep. Eshoo said. “When we close the doors to ‘Equal Justice Under Law,’ we’re not reflecting our national ideal.” “I remember a Justice once poignantly described the ‘lump in his throat’ which formed every time he walked up the marble steps and through the main entrance of the Court. That was Chief Justice John Roberts,” Rep. Eshoo noted. “With this resolution, we are calling on Chief Justice Roberts to allow every American the same opportunity he had, to experience stepping through the open doors to watch the Court work in openness, and to pay tribute to a nation not of men, but of laws.” Congress regularly uses resolutions to express its opinion about activities for which it appropriates funding, including the Supreme Court. In 1932, Congress provided the original appropriation to design the building. It also allocates annual funding for operations and regulates by statue activities that can take place on the grounds of the Supreme Court. Rep. Eshoo’s resolution has already gained the support of 34 cosponsors, including Rep. David Obey (D-WI), Rep. Louise Slaughter (D-NY), Rep. Henry Waxman (D-CA), and Rep. Sam Farr (D-CA). “We pride ourselves on free and open democracy, and the Supreme Court is the pinnacle of that ideal. So it’s intolerable that the public must now sneak in through a side door,” said Rep. Farr. “We have to balance access and security and not turn our country into ‘Fortress America.’ Mr. Chief Justice, throw open these doors!” ###
07.30.2010	+ SHARE House Passes Eshoo Legislation to Eliminate Lead in Drinking Water July 30th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation last night to eliminate the serious health threat and economic burden caused by lead exposure from household water sources. The legislation will update the national lead content standard to nearly eradicate lead in faucets and fixtures which currently contribute up to 20 percent of human lead exposure, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) wrote the legislation (H.R. 5289, the Get the Lead Out Act) and it was included in the Assistance, Quality, and Affordability Act of 2010 (AQUA)—which the House passed last night by a voice vote “The Safe Drinking Water Act has failed to effectively protect against the lead exposure acquired through our plumbing systems,” Rep. Eshoo said. “In 21st century America, families have a right to clean water in their homes. Lead-free plumbing is an existing alternative, it’s affordable, and it’s time we adopt it across the nation.” The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), which determines the national lead content standard, currently allows up to 8% lead content for faucets and other plumbing fixtures, and limits the amount of lead that can leach from plumbing into drinking water. But health studies have concluded that much smaller amounts of lead exposure can have serious impacts on children and adults, including kidney disease, reduced IQ, hypertension, hearing loss, and brain damage. Get the Lead Out would reduce the allowable lead content from 8% to 0.25%—generally agreed to be a statistically insignificant amount of exposure. “California recognized this threat and in 2006 enacted the toughest lead content standard for drinking water faucets, fittings, and plumbing systems anywhere in the world,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill is the next step. It represents a progressive and major effort that will eliminate the threat of lead in faucets and fixtures across the country.” The California law, A.B. 1953, enacted a new “lead free” standard, requiring manufacturers to phase out potential exposure from materials in drinking water plumbing by this year. Major plumbing fixture manufacturers produced lead-free faucets and fixtures at competitive prices ahead of statutory compliance deadlines. Since the California law, Vermont and Maryland have also adopted Get the Lead Out laws and the District of Columbia and Virginia have introduced similar legislation. The health impact of lead exposure has an estimated economic cost of more than $43 billion annually in lost time, health costs, and related matters. Get the Lead Out has received the support of state health officials, numerous children’s health organizations, prominent national environmental organizations, local governments, scientific associations, national drinking water associations and the Association of California Water Agencies representing California’s drinking water suppliers. The Plumbing Manufacturers Institute, the association that represents all major faucet companies, also supports the legislation. ###
07.28.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Commemorates the 75th Anniversary of Social Security July 28th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – On the East Front Steps of the U.S. Capitol, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) joined dozens of Members of Congress today to celebrate the 75th anniversary of Social Security. “Social Security is the most popular and successful government programs in our nation’s history. More than 50 million Americans receive Social Security benefits annually, and without it, half of the seniors in our country would live in poverty,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Today, on the 75th anniversary of this remarkable social program, there can be no better time to renew our commitment to defend this program, to reinvigorate it and to do everything we can to ensure that Social Security is funded, solvent, and available for generations to come.” ### Download the full-sized photo.
07.28.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement Against Afghanistan War Funding July 28th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement about her vote on Afghanistan war funding. Today Congress considered whether to continue funding operations in Afghanistan, and as we did, we had to scrutinize the policy, the price being paid, and the outcomes for our national security. This is a deeply profound examination and its outcome can decide life or death for some of our troops. It’s hard to believe that the eighteen year olds who enlist today to fight and die in Afghanistan were in fourth grade when the World Trade Center and Pentagon were attacked in 2001. It is now 2010, and this conflict is now the longest war in our nation’s history, accompanied by tragic loss of American lives and those of innocent civilians. President Obama told our troops that the mission must be definable and it must be winnable. I believe that it is neither. We are losing more and more precious lives—102 in June alone. And every month security has not improved, even after $300 billion and more than 1,000 American lives have been spent. The President’s strategy is not succeeding, and rather than ask Americans to put their lives on the line for another eighteen months for what has become an impossible task, I voted the McGovern amendment to require a withdrawal plan by April 2011 to bring an end to this war. ###
07.27.2010	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves Eshoo Request of $10 Million for Hangar One Restoration July 27th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Defense Appropriations Subcommittee voted today to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Defense Appropriations Act, which funds military operations, personnel, equipment, environmental remediation, and military base re-use. The legislation includes a $10 million request by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to fund the restoration of Hangar One at Moffett Field. “For decades, Hangar One has been one of the defining landmarks of Silicon Valley. It is part of a proud history of naval aviation, and with this funding, we are taking the first step to returning it to productive use,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I will keep fighting for full restoration and historical preservation of Hangar One so that generations to come can enjoy this marvel of American innovation.” Having passed the Subcommittee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Defense Appropriations Act will now be considered by the full Appropriations Committee. ###
07.27.2010	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves Over $3 Million for 14th Congressional District Projects July 27th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee voted last week to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act. The legislation includes $3.4 million in grants which Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested for her Congressional District. “This bill will rehabilitate some of the 14th Congressional District’s most historic sites,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Pigeon Point Lighthouse has been a landmark of the Coastside since it first began aiding seafarers in 1872. It is still one of the tallest lighthouses in the country and is one of only five lighthouses to appear in the National Register of Historic Places. The funding I requested and which was approved by the Subcommittee will help the Park Service repair Pigeon Point Lighthouse so visitors can once again access this remarkable structure.” “The bill will also provide further funding for the South San Francisco Bay Salt Ponds Restoration Project, the second largest wetlands restoration project in the United States,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The funding will allow the transformation of thousands of acres of salt ponds to the beautiful, delicate tidal marshes of the South Bay.” Rep. Eshoo released the following details about the projects and funding: $250,000 for the Campaign to Light the Future (Restoration of Pigeon Point Light House)Funds would be used to restore the upper section of the lighthouse, which is closed due to structural damage. $2,150,000 for the South San Francisco Bay Salt Ponds Restoration (FWS)Funding would be utilized to further the South San Francisco Bay Salt Ponds Restoration Project. Funds will be used to manage the lands, including the installation and management of water control structures, levee maintenance, and the monitoring of salt ponds. $1,000,000 for the South San Francisco Bay Salt Ponds Restoration (USGS)Funds would be used by the United States Geological Survey to conduct interdisciplinary monitoring (biological, hydrological, and water quality studies) of salt ponds in San Francisco Bay and San Pablo Bay. Having passed the Subcommittee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Interior and Environment Appropriations Act will now be considered by the full Appropriations Committee. ###
07.26.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act July 26th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo made the following statement on her vote for 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act. Today is a historic day. It is the twentieth anniversary of the enactment of the American With Disabilities Act (ADA). Twenty years and one day ago, individuals with disabilities did not enjoy the same access to employment, education, or basic services as other Americans. The ADA changed that forever. Our workplaces, schools, buildings, and sidewalks offer safe and fair access for Americans with disabilities, where for too long they had none. In the twenty years the ADA has been the law of the land, our country has seen significant change. Much of that change has been driven by the high-tech innovators in my Congressional District, the heart of Silicon Valley. In 1990 a supercomputer that would fill a building the size of a warehouse can now fit in the palm of a hand. We can now watch our favorite television shows outside, on an airplane, or in a coffee shop on our computers. Businesses can allow their employees to collaborate face-to-face from offices thousands of miles apart. Communications and video technology have become truly integral aspects of our everyday lives. Unfortunately, not all Americans have been able to take full advantage of these innovations in technology. By passing the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act today, we will change this. Working to address the needs of individuals with vision, hearing, and other disabilities by updating communications laws last revised in 1996, the 21st Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act make technology and telecommunications devices and services accessible to everyone. I commend the author of this legislation, Rep. Ed Markey, for his leadership and advocacy on behalf of the disabilities community. On this historic day, I’m proud to support this legislation that will ensure no one is left behind. ###
07.22.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Extend Emergency Benefits July 22nd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for H.R. 4213, the Restoration of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act. The legislation extends unemployment insurance benefits and retroactively restores them to the unemployed, who have been without benefits since May. “Unemployment benefits provide a critical economic lifeline for unemployed Americans who have lost their jobs because of a deep recession,” said Rep. Eshoo. “I have repeatedly supported legislation to extend emergency benefits and I’m relieved this measure will finally reach those who need help.” The Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) program provides additional weeks of unemployment benefits for jobless workers during economic emergencies. The program began to phase out at the end of May, causing an estimated 2.5 million individuals to lose emergency unemployment benefits. H.R. 4213, the Restoration Of Emergency Unemployment Compensation Act retroactively restores unemployment benefits to these Americans and continues the EUC program through November 30, 2010. According to a recent analysis by the Economic Policy Institute, unemployment benefits were responsible for creating 1.1 million American jobs since the recession started, increasing the number of hours worked by those who already have jobs, and adding 1.7 percent to the gross domestic product. H.R. 4213 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 272 to 152. It will now be sent to the President’s desk for his signature. ###
07.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Hails Wall Street Reform as Victory for Consumers July 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) hailed the President’s signing of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act into law today as a victory for consumers which enacts the most sweeping reforms to Wall Street since the New Deal: “Too many of my constituents watched their homes, their retirement savings, and their college funds disappear as big banks failed because of Wall Street’s greed. The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act will prevent the irresponsible lending, investing, and trading on Wall Street that led our country into the deepest recession since the Great Depression “This landmark reform bill is now the law of the land. It creates accountability for financial services firms and ends taxpayer-funded bailouts so future Americans will not have to have to pay for the mistakes of Wall Street again.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act was signed into law earlier today at a ceremony at the Ronald Reagan Building in Washington. ###
07.21.2010	+ SHARE Committee Approves Funding for Cooley Landing in East Palo Alto July 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C – The Full Appropriations Committee voted yesterday to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act. The legislation includes funding for the Cooley Landing project in the 14th Congressional District. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested funding for the project. “Cooley Landing has the potential to be a ‘jewel in the crown’ of our Congressional District. This funding will help restore access to the site and expand its open space,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Connecting the Landing to the San Francisco Bay Trail will help unify East Palo Alto with surrounding cities, increase mobility in our region, and create further opportunities for recreation.” Rep. Eshoo released the following details about the project and funding: $650,000 for Cooley Landing San Francisco Bay Trail Construction for East Palo Alto. The project will construct transportation infrastructure, bicycle and pedestrian trails, roads, parking, and bus waiting areas associated with the development of the Cooley Landing Bayfront Park. These improvements will connect Cooley Landing with the San Francisco Bay Trail, completing a 500-mile circle of bicycling and hiking trails around the San Francisco and San Pablo Bays. Having passed the Full Committee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act will now be considered on the Floor by the House. ###
07.21.2010	+ SHARE Committee Approves $2 Million for Military Construction Project in the 14th Congressional District July 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Appropriations Committee voted yesterday to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which funds military construction, veterans’ hospitals, and educational benefits for veterans. The legislation includes $2,000,000 for the 14th Congressional District to relocate the main gate at Moffett Federal Airfield for the 129th Rescue Wing of the California Air National Guard. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested funding for this project. “After we successfully secured a permanent home for the 129th earlier this year, relocating the main gate was the first priority to meet necessary anti-terrorism and security requirements,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’m extremely pleased about the funding for this project so the 129th can continue their excellent service to our region and California.” The funding will include the cost of demolishing the old gate, moving it to a new location, and putting in new security measures to ensure the gate meets post-9-11 anti-terrorism standards. Having passed the Committee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act will now be considered by the full House. ###
07.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Develop Oil Spill Prevention Technology July 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted for two bills – the Federal Oil Spill Research Program Act and the Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development Act – that will support the research and development of new and innovative technologies for preventing and mitigating the effects of disastrous oil spills. “My Congressional District is home to one of the most innovative and technologically savvy areas in the country, and I know technology can have an important impact on an industry,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The Gulf Coast oil spill has made clear that new technology is necessary to reshape safety in the drilling industry and prevent similar catastrophes in the future.” The Federal Oil Spill Research Program Act (H.R. 2693) establishes a comprehensive oil spill research program focused on finding innovative ways of preventing and responding to oil spills. The legislation also spurs technological innovation by directing the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) to award grants to universities and other research institutions for developing new or improved oil-spill cleanup technologies. The Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development Act (H.R. 5716) directs the Department of Energy to shift much of the focus of their deepwater drilling R&D program from increased oil production technology to accident prevention, worker safety, and environmental impact mitigation. Some of the areas to be researched include enhanced well control and integrity, blowout prevention devices, secondary control systems for well shut-off, technologies for accident mitigation, and equipment testing for extreme conditions—all of which could have helped prevent the BP disaster. “There is a huge gap between our extractive technologies and our ability to prevent the disasters it can cause,” Rep. Eshoo said. “These bills will help bridge the divide by creating needed methods, expertise, and technology.” Rep. Eshoo has opposed off-shore drilling for over four decades, having served on the Board of Control after the Santa Barbara Oil Spill in 1969 and is one of only 11 members out of 59 on the Energy and Commerce Committee who has not received any oil and gas contributions. Both H.R. 2693 and H.R. 5716 passed the House by a voice vote. ###
07.19.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Responds to Washington Post Investigation of Intelligence Community July 19th, 2010 Calls for Increased Oversight Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the intelligence committee and the Chair of the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, released the following statement about today’s Washington Post story, “Top Secret America:” “Today’s Washington Post story rips the veil off a problem that intelligence committee members have been struggling with for years. The Intelligence Community has grown into a sprawling enterprise, full of redundancies, without internal or external oversight. “That’s why I’ve been pushing so hard for enhanced oversight of the intelligence community. Sadly, the intelligence community has been fighting tooth and nail against having GAO conduct an accounting of their people and facilities. This article makes clear that GAO oversight is necessary since the intelligence agencies are incapable of conducting their own accounting. “The taxpayers deserve a better accounting of where their money is going, and what all this secrecy is costing them. The bill for the nation’s intelligence enterprise has grown exponentially and it’s not clear that we’re getting our money’s worth in many cases. “It’s time for Congress to start asserting itself and conduct rigorous oversight over the community, rather than serving as a rubber stamp for their budget. We can protect our country and be efficient and transparent at the same time.” ###
07.16.2010	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves $2 Million for Military Construction Project in the 14th Congressional District July 16th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee voted Wednesday to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, which funds military construction, veterans’ hospitals, and educational benefits for veterans. The legislation includes $2,000,000 for the 14th Congressional District to relocate the main gate at Moffett Federal Airfield for the 129th Rescue Wing of the California Air National Guard. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested funding for this project. “Relocating the main gate was the number one priority for the 129th,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This funding will allow them to meet their force protection requirements while they serve California and the nation. I salute the 129th for their commitment to rescuing our troops in harms way.” The funding will include the cost of demolishing the old gate, moving it to a new location, and putting in new security measures to ensure the gate meets post-9-11 anti-terrorism standards. Having passed the Subcommittee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act will now be considered by the full Appropriations Committee. ###
07.16.2010	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves $700,000 for Education and Health Programs in the 14th Congressional District July 16th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee voted yesterday to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Act, which funds job training projects, health and social safety nets, and educational opportunities. The legislation includes $700,000 in grants for two programs in the 14th Congressional District. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested funding for both projects. “Aim High provide hundreds of at-risk students with innovative and powerful educational opportunities and have a history of strong outcomes for participants,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The grants will expand the availability of these programs at a time when state budget cuts are decreasing opportunities for our local students.” “The uninsured and low-income patients depend on the services provided by the San Mateo County South County Clinics” Rep. Eshoo said. “The funds for consolidation and reconstruction will expand capacity, improve patient access and increase operational efficiency.” Rep. Eshoo released the following details about the projects and funding: $100,000 for Aim High. This project will provide continuing summer education programs for middle school students in the 14th Congressional District. $600,000 for Consolidation and Rebuild of South County Clinics in Redwood City. This project will result in increased capacity for clinic visits, increased operating revenue and a new asset to the south county community. Having passed the Subcommittee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Act will now be considered by the full Appropriations Committee. ###
07.16.2010	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves over $5 million in Water Projects for the 14th Congressional District July 16th, 2010 Washington, D.C – The Energy and Water Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee voted yesterday to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. The legislation includes over $5 million in grants for projects affecting the 14th Congressional District which Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested funding for. “I’m very pleased the Subcommittee included my funding requests to support Silicon Valley’s water needs.” Rep. Eshoo said. “Each of these projects will help with the ongoing flood protection and water conservation efforts in the 14th Congressional District.” Rep. Eshoo released the following details about the projects and funding: $650,000 for the San Francisquito Creek. The funding will be used to complete a feasibility study of critical flood protection measures for the cities of Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, Menlo Park, and portions of San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. Once completed the project will provide flood protection to thousands of residents, three important Bay Area and state highway connector systems, a regional commuter rail system and a local airport. $2,700,000 for the San Francisco Shoreline. The funding will be used for the Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge to manage the lands, including installation and management of water control structures, levee maintenance, and monitoring of salt ponds. Other benefits of the restoration project include increased flood protection along the perimeter of the project area, and public recreation opportunities, including trails for hiking, cycling and jogging. $1,600,000 for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program. The funding for this project will be used for the construction of pipelines and related conveyance facilities will expand the use of recycled water to augment surface water supplies, helping to preserve overdrawn river and groundwater supplies, protect the environment, and improve the overall security and reliability of the Bay Area’s urban water systems $400,000 for the Port of Redwood City Deepening Study. This funding will continue the Army Corps of Engineers Feasibility Study to determine the proper depth for the Redwood City Navigation Channel to maximize operational efficiency for the larger vessels now transiting the Channel. Having passed the Subcommittee, the Fiscal Year 2011 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act will now be considered by the full Appropriations Committee. ###
07.14.2010	+ SHARE VA will Provide Greater Access to Care for Veterans Suffering from PTSD July 14th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – On Monday, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) revised its rules for Veterans seeking health care and disability compensation for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), allowing more veterans access to care. Previously, veterans were required to provide proof of a specific event or stressor that caused the PTSD and needed outside corroboration before being treated. The new regulation recognizes that the inherently stressful nature of deployment in a war zone can trigger PTSD. Under the new regulation, a veteran can be treated for PTSD once a VA doctor confirms diagnosis. “We have a responsibility to provide our veterans with the care they need due to what they have endured on behalf of our country,” Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) said. “By updating the Federal Register to include this long overdue regulation, the VA is fulfilling the nation’s commitment to our veterans. I applaud this decision and the VA’s continued dedication to serve our courageous veterans.” ###
07.14.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Improve Accountability and Reduce Waste in Government Programs July 14th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted last night for H.R. 3393, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, which is designed to identify, reduce, and prevent improper payments from federal agencies. Improper payments occur when a federal agency pays too much, pays twice, or pays for the wrong product or service. They can occur as a result of fraud or from poor financial management systems that do not detect or prevent mistakes before federal dollars are misspent. According to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), federal agencies were estimated to have made nearly $100 billion in improper payments in FY 2009. 94% of improper payments come from just eleven programs: the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, School Lunch, Medicare Fee-for-Service, Medicaid, Medicare Advantage (Part C), Public Housing and Rental Assistance, Unemployment Insurance, Earned Income Tax Credit, Highway Planning and Construction, Supplemental Security Income, and Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance. “Every dollar spent by a federal agency is a taxpayer dollar that someone has worked hard to earn, so agencies have a high responsibility to spend that money correctly,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will add much-needed transparency to payments from agencies and help to ensure that two dollars aren’t spent when only one is owed.” The legislation will prevent future improper payments by increasing transparency of payments and requiring agencies to develop action plans to avoid future waste, recover overpayments, and increase accountability for expenditures. It will implement the following new requirements for federal agencies: The head of each federal agency must review agency programs and activities every three fiscal years and identify those that may be susceptible to improper payments. Agency heads must produce a statistically valid estimate every year of improper payments in their agencies. Agencies must report on actions to reduce and recover improper payments. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget must report to Congressional committees on actions agencies have taken to report on and recover improper payments. Agency heads must conduct recovery audits for agency programs that expend $1 million or more annually, where it makes fiscal sense to do so. Each agency’s Inspector General must report each fiscal year on agency compliance with this Act. “$100 billion of overpayments from federal agencies is unacceptable and it’s never affordable. This is more than double the Department of Homeland Security’s entire budget,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Federal agencies must do much more to identify and prevent improper payments and address the management weaknesses that cause them. This bill puts in place a plan and requires accountability so that agencies crack down on this type of waste.” H.R. 3393 passed the House by a voice vote. ###
07.07.2010	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Expansion of 211 Service to All Americans July 7th, 2010 Sunnyvale, Calif. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo held a press conference today with United Ways of California to highlight her Calling For 2-1-1 Act (H.R. 211) and to urge passage of the legislation. The bill will provide federal support for the 211 information and referral telephone service and expand its availability across the country. “211 helps connect millions of Americans every year with an array of essential programs, from health services to housing assistance. Almost 10 years after it was designated, the 2-1-1 number only reaches two-thirds of the U.S. population and includes less than half the counties in California. I’ve authored the Calling For 2-1-1 Act to expand this critical service to all Americans and ensure it continues to provide a valuable lifeline for decades to come,” Rep. Eshoo said. 2-1-1 numbers provide individuals and families with immediate referrals and connections to federal, regional or local services, from mental health programs to childcare resources, domestic violence shelters and financial counseling centers. During disasters, 211 offers critical information about evacuation routes, food, and shelter, as well as support for finding long-term recovery services. Whenever the Bay Area faces its next major earthquake, 211 could radically improve communications for residents and take pressure off overburdened 911 emergency lines. The bill has already secured 243 bipartisan cosponsors in the House and 61 in the Senate—more than enough for passage—but it will expire if it does not come up for a vote before the end of the year. “I’ve worked hard to make sure the bill has the votes it needs to pass. Now I’m working closely with Speaker Pelosi and Chairman Waxman of the House Energy and Commerce to bring up the bill for a vote this year, preferably prior to our August recess,” Rep. Eshoo said. “People across the country can help with this effort by calling their legislators and asserting that 211 is a priority for their communities.” Peter Manzo, CEO of United Ways of California underscored the importance of the Act to expand 211 service statewide: “Without federal funding, current plans to expand 211 to the entire state of California cannot move forward. Right now, 211 is available in counties with large urban centers. Rural counties, where health and human services are more scarce, are in even greater need of 211 to connect people with help. These rural counties also lack the funding resources necessary to support 211 service.” Carole Leigh Hutton, CEO of United Way Silicon Valley, which operates 211 Santa Clara County, said, “211 answered more than 200,000 calls in the Bay Area last year and more than 16 million nationwide. Calls to 211 have surged, up 50% since the economic crisis began. 211 is a critical driver for economic recovery in our region – and across the nation – for Americans who need to connect with community services to help rebuild their lives. To ensure the long-term sustainability of 211, this federal funding partnership is critical. We at United Way urge Congress to take the important step of ratifying this bill before the August recess.” Anne Wilson, CEO of United Way of the Bay Area, which operates 211 in five Bay Area counties, said, “211 is serving as a life line for struggling families during these tough times. All people, everywhere, need to be able to dial 211 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to get the help they need in the event of a personal crisis or a regional disaster. This can only happen if H.R. 211 passes this year. Without federal funding, expanding our 211 call centers to adequately serve growing needs will be a significant challenge.” ###
07.01.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement Against Afghanistan War Funding July 1st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement about her vote on Afghanistan war funding. Today Congress considered whether to continue funding operations in Afghanistan, and as we did, we had to scrutinize the policy, the price being paid, and the outcomes for our national security. This is a deeply profound examination and its outcome can decide life or death for some of our troops. It’s hard to believe that the eighteen year olds who enlist today to fight and die in Afghanistan were in fourth grade when the World Trade Center and Pentagon were attacked in 2001. It is now 2010, and this conflict is now the longest war in our nation’s history, accompanied by tragic loss of American lives and those of innocent civilians. President Obama told our troops that the mission must be definable and it must be winnable. I believe that it is neither. We are losing more and more precious lives—102 in June alone. And every month security has not improved, even after $300 billion and more than 1,000 American lives have been spent. The President’s strategy is not succeeding, and rather than ask Americans to put their lives on the line for another eighteen months for what has become an impossible task, I voted the McGovern amendment to require a withdrawal plan by April 2011 to bring an end to this war. ###
07.01.2010	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves $550,000 for Youth and Emergency Services in the 14th Congressional District July 1st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Appropriations Committee’s Commerce, Justice, Science Subcommittee voted last night to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 Commerce-Justice-Science Spending Bill, which includes investments in state and local law enforcement, science, technology, and innovation. The legislation includes $550,000 in grants for projects in the 14th Congressional District. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) requested funding for both projects. “The East Palo Alto Parolee Reentry Program has already been successful in lowering recidivism and crime in the community. The Youth Initiative will build off that program’s success,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The Mountain View Emergency Operations Center is a critical component of our region’s emergency response system and these critical funds will provide the Center with up to date technology.” Rep. Eshoo released the following details about the projects and funding: $470,000 for the East Palo Alto Youth Parolee Reentry Initiative. This project will help reduce youth recidivism rates, increase high school graduation rates and reduce overall crime and violence in East Palo Alto. $80,000 for the Mountain View Emergency Operations Center, to provide for increased stability of the citywide and regional emergency response through enhanced capability of the Emergency Operations Center. The money will be used to update communication devices, computers, software and information displays. Having passed the Subcommittee, the bill will now be considered by the full Appropriations Committee. ###
06.30.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Reform Wall Street and End Bailouts June 30th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for the most sweeping reforms of Wall Street since the New Deal. H.R. 4173, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act puts an end to ‘too big to fail’ financial institutions and the TARP program to ensure there will never be another taxpayer-funded bailout. It also establishes an independent watchdog agency to protect consumers from risky or abusive financial practices. “Irresponsible lending, investing, and trading on Wall Street led our country into the deepest recession since the Great Depression,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The crisis cost 8 million Americans their jobs and stripped the American people of $17 trillion in wealth. It is the single largest cause of budget deficits in California, with teachers in our local communities being laid off, transportation plans having been scrapped, and new schools not being built. Dodd-Frank will bring accountability to Wall Street, protect citizens from financial abuse, and prevent taxpayers from ever again paying for Wall Street’s mistakes.” Dodd-Frank creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council to liquidate failing firms, so if they collapse, they will not take the economy and taxpayers down with them. It also strengthens government oversight over large banks and financial firms—including new regulation of credit rating agencies and riskier hedge funds, derivatives, and other complex financial deals which led to the financial meltdown. Finally, it will deter financial institutions from borrowing so much money that they overextend themselves to the point of failure. To protect Americans from unfair and abusive financial practices, the bill creates the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). This independent bureau will provide clear and accurate information to families and small businesses to ensure that bank loans, mortgages, and credit cards are fair and affordable. Just like the FDA does for medical safety, the CFPB will set safety standards, to prevent practices such as hidden credit card fees, deceptive fine print, and other financial abuses that have escaped oversight so far. Dodd-Frank has been endorsed by the AARP, Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, Council of Institutional Investors, National Fair Housing Alliance, National Restaurant Association, Public Citizen, SEIU, and U.S. PIRG, among other organizations. The bill was publicly debated for more than 50 hours, and includes over 50 Republican amendments. H.R. 4173 passed by a vote of 237-192. ###
06.29.2010	+ SHARE Awards for San Mateo County Job Training June 29th, 2010 Washington, D.C.– San Mateo County will receive over $2.5 million for the Human Services Agency’s Home Energy Retrofit Occupations’ (HERO) project, Rep Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today. The grant is part of $13.7 million awarded by the Department of Labor to community colleges and organizations for job training programs in California. The HERO project trains and helps place unemployed workers, particularly veterans, in the energy efficiency industry. HERO develops, tests and shares training resources, including online recruitment and assessment tools, a mobile lab with home retrofit equipment, and an online data base to match employers with training providers. “This funding is great news for San Mateo County because trained job seekers will be matched with employers,” Rep. Eshoo said. “By helping workers enter the fast-growing, critically important energy sector, the HERO project will help create lasting employment and reduce our energy footprint. It’s exactly the kind of project which will help people and improve our local economy.” ###
06.25.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on the Passing of Walter Shorenstein June 25th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement on the passing of Walter Shorenstein: “Walter Shorenstein was, at once, larger than life and down to earth. His generosity was limitless, whether it was making donations to countless charities, fund-raising for the nation’s leading political figures or offering frank, no-nonsense advice, guidance and critical encouragement to those who shared his passion for fairness and achievement. “He was a valued friend whose support formed the bedrock upon which so many of us came to realize the opportunity to be of service to our nation. “His personal story is the quintessential American story of success realized through hard work, and his legacy will live on in all of us who are privileged to serve and carry out his vision for justice and equality.” ###
06.24.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Give Strong Authority to the National Commission on the BP Spill June 24th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted to give the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling the power to issues subpoenas (H.R. 5481). President Obama has the authority to establish a commission by Executive Order, but only Congress has the authority to grant the commission subpoena power. “The BP/Transocean Oil Spill is the worst environmental disaster in our nation’s history. We need to find out why and how it happened and ensure that a catastrophe of this nature never happens again. Unfortunately, BP has been less than forthcoming about the causes of the spill and misleading about the size of the leak. The company has consistently stonewalled outside investigators and Members of Congress in requests for information. Passage of this bill will give the Commission subpoena power to ensure it can access all relevant information from BP, Transocean, and Halliburton. The entire nation deserves real answers.” Rep. Eshoo has opposed off-shore drilling for over four decades, having served on the Board of Control after the Santa Barbara Oil Spill in 1969. She has a policy of not accepting contributions from oil and gas interests and is one of only 11 members out of the 59 Members on the Energy and Commerce Committee who has not received any oil and gas contributions. H.R. 5481 passed by a bipartisan vote of 420 to 1. ###
06.24.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Limit Corporate Influence on Elections June 24th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for H.R. 5175, the DISCLOSE Act, to improve transparency and limit the influence of corporations in electoral politics. The legislation closes some of the largest loopholes created by the Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case. “The Supreme Court overturned limits on corporate campaign activity which was settled law for over 100 years and created a free-for-all in campaign spending,” said Rep. Eshoo, a cosponsor of the legislation. “I’m pleased that the DISCLOSE Act will reverse the damage the Supreme Court has created.” The legislation prevents certain corporations from spending money in campaigns, including those who receive large government contracts; those who are controlled by foreign entities; or those who received a government bailout through the TARP program. DISCLOSE requires that corporate CEOs appear on camera to say they endorse political messages sponsored by their corporations, just as candidates must do in their advertisements. The bill also strengthens disclosure rules for campaign-related expenditures made by corporations and labor organizations. These requirements ensure that organizations cannot mask campaign-related activities through intermediaries. “The American people deserve to know who attempts to influence their elections. Once they know who sponsors an ad, they can judge the content for themselves and vote accordingly,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The DISCLOSE Act will help voters make their own decisions, a principle that is at the core of our democracy.” Rep. Eshoo has consistently supported measures to limit the effects of corporate money on campaigns. She is a cosponsor of the Fair Elections Now Act and the “Let the People Decide” Clean Campaign Act. Previously, she has cosponsored the Independent Commission on Campaign Finance Reform Act, the American Political Reform Act, and the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (commonly known as Shays-Meehan). The DISCLOSE Act passed the House by a vote of 219-206. ###
06.15.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Service Academy Appointees June 15th, 2010 Palo Alto, Calif. – Last Friday Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – CA) honored her congressional nominees who have been recently appointed to service academies at a reception in Mountain View’s City Hall Rotunda. Joining Rep. Eshoo were Mayor Ronit Bryant, members of the Mountain View City Council, Dr. Pete Worden of NASA Ames, and many service members from the 129th Rescue Wing and Naval Recruiting District San Francisco at the Military Entrance Processing Station at Moffett Field. From Left to Right: Chase Michael Houser, Grace Ann Hamilton, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, Mark David Jensen, and Kevin Andrew Flaherty. Each year, Rep. Eshoo can nominate up to 10 students from her District to attend each service academy. The subsequent selection process for the academies is highly competitive, with each service academy looking for candidates of high scholarship and strong backgrounds in math and science, leadership potential, and physical aptitude. Medical fitness and the motivation for a military career following graduation are also important factors. “For the past 17 years, it has been one of my great privileges as a Member of Congress to nominate outstanding young women and men who live in the 14th Congressional District to the United States Service Academies,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I receive many requests each year and we take great care in choosing nominees. The young men and women who have been appointed will make our District and our country proud.” Rep. Eshoo nominated sixteen students for the class of 2014. The following six were appointed: Chase Michael Houser is a resident of Sunnyvale and a graduate of Homestead High School. He has accepted appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. At the Academy, Chase will work towards becoming an A-10 Thunderbolt Pilot. Mark David Jensen is a resident of Sunnyvale and a graduate of The King’s Academy, Christian College Preparatory School. He has accepted appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. At the Academy, Mark’s goal is to develop into a successful leader and officer in the U.S. Air Force. Kevin Andrew Flaherty is a resident of Atherton and a graduate of Menlo School. He has accepted appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy. Upon graduation from the Academy, Kevin would like to follow his father and brother with a career in the U.S. Marine Corps. Grace Ann Hamilton is a resident of Los Altos Hills and a graduate of Henry M. Gunn High School. She has accepted appointment to the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. Grace is excited to help the West Point Swim Team beat Navy this coming year. Coleen Pacurariu is a resident of Los Gatos and a graduate of Monte Vista Christian School. She has accepted appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy. Coleen plans to work towards becoming a fighter pilot. Trevor Michael Kennedy is a resident of Monte Sereno and a graduate of Los Gatos High School. He has accepted appointment to the U.S. Military Academy (West Point). His goal at the Academy is to develop into a successful leader and officer in the U.S. Army. ###
06.01.2010	+ SHARE Congresswoman Eshoo holds meeting in Silicon Valley June 1st, 2010 Anna G. Eshoo was first sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives in 1993, after serving on the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors for 10 years. For more than a decade in Congress she has defended consumers, promoted American competitiveness and innovation, fought for access to health care for families and children, and protected the environment. Click here for the document Rep. Eshoo has served on the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee since 1995 and is a member of the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet and the Subcommittee on Health. The Energy and Commerce Committee is responsible for legislation affecting Medicare, Medicaid, telecommunications, energy, the Internet, health-based environmental laws, children’s health, biotechnology, high technology, water resources, bioterrorism, homeland security, interstate commerce, gun safety, consumer protection, and food and drug safety. Rep. Eshoo was appointed to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence in January 2003. In the 111th Congress, Rep. Eshoo chairs the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, which focuses on policies and management challenges affecting all 16 agencies that comprise the nation’s Intelligence Community. She has authored legislation to protect our national security and our civil liberties, as well as legislation to require that any surveillance or intelligence gathering be conducted in accordance with the law, requiring court warrants based upon probable cause. Her legislation has also been directed at reforming the Intelligence Community, and increasing human intelligence to better meet the security challenges of the 21st Century.
05.19.2010	+ SHARE Legislation Eliminates Lead in Drinking Water May 19th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The House Subcommittee on Energy and Environment passed legislation today to eliminate the serious health threat and economic burden caused by lead exposure from household water sources. The legislation will update the national lead content standard to nearly eradicate lead in faucets and fixtures, which currently contribute up to 20 percent of human lead exposure, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) wrote the legislation (H.R. 5289, the Get the Lead Out Act) and it was included in the Assistance, Quality, and Affordability Act of 2010 (AQUA), which the Subcommittee passed today. AQUA will move to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for further consideration. “The only safe lead exposure is no exposure, but right now faucets across the country are routinely and legally slipping lead into the water our children drink,” Rep. Eshoo said. “In the 21st century when we have so many safe alternatives, it’s unacceptable to continue to expose children and families to this health hazard.” The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), which determines the national lead content standard, currently allows up to 8% lead content for faucets and other plumbing fixtures, and limits the amount of lead that can leach from plumbing into drinking water. But health studies have concluded that even small amounts of lead exposure can have serious impact on children and adults, including kidney disease, reduced IQ, hypertension, hearing loss, and brain damage. Get the Lead Out would reduce the allowable lead content from 8% to 0.25%. “We know the damage lead exposure causes, we know how to prevent it, and we know the cost of doing nothing,” Rep. Eshoo said. “In California, we have a successful formula to prevent lead exposure and the damage it causes. It’s time we protect the rest of the country.” Get the Lead Out is based on a successful 2006 California law, A.B. 1953. It enacted a new “lead free” standard, requiring manufacturers to phase out potential exposure from materials in drinking water plumbing by 2010. Major plumbing fixture manufacturers have produced lead-free faucets and fixtures at competitive prices ahead of statutory compliance deadlines. The health impact of lead exposure has an estimated economic cost of more than $43 billion annually in lost time, health costs, and related matters. ###
05.19.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Keep America First in Research and Technology May 19th, 2010 COMPETES Legislation Will Double Fundingfor Basic Research Washington, D.C.- Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for a landmark investment in thescientific and technological research which has been critical to U.S. economicand technological leadership over the past half-century. H.R. 5325, the AmericaCOMPETES Reauthorization Act, will double authorized funding for basicresearch programs-the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy’sOffice of Science, and the labs at the National Institute of Standards andTechnology. It also will provide anarray of research and development grants, encourage high-risk, high-rewardenergy technology development, and create new programs to support regionalcollaboration in research and technology industries. “Innovation and technology are essential fields for drivingour economy and creating jobs, but we are in serious danger of falling behind ourglobal competitors in Europe and Asia,” Rep.Eshoo said. “This bill renews ourcommitment to generations to come and lays the groundwork for the technologicalbreakthroughs that will ensure our growth in the future.” The legislation will: Doublefunding for basic scientific research, crucial to some of our mostinnovative breakthroughs, over 10 years. Createjobs with innovative technology loan guarantees for small and mid-sizedmanufacturers and Regional Innovation Clusters (RICS) to expand scientificand economic collaboration. (Formore information on RICs, see this Brookings Institution op-ed). Promotehigh-risk, high reward research to pioneer cutting edge discoveries, byreauthorizing the Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy(ARPA-E). Last month, this Agencyawarded more than $10 million to Silicon Valleyprojects. Investin and improve science, math, technology, and engineering education at alllevels. Basic research powersthe national and Silicon Valley economies Since World War II, more than half of U.S. economic growth can beattributed to the development and adoption of new technologies. Basic research is the first step that leads tothese technologies. According to anew report by the Joint Economic Council, “The technological progresssupported by R&D has played a singular role in enhancing the productivityof businesses and workers and spawning new, job-creating industries, such asthe biotechnology sector.” Silicon Valley hashistorically been a substantial beneficiary of basic research funding, whichhas provided the foundation for the Valley’s largest tech, biotech, and energycompanies. Google, Cisco, and Genentech wereall spawned from federally funded research projects at Stanford University. “Federal funding and brilliant minds launched Silicon Valley as the heart of innovation forty years ago,”Rep. Eshoo said. “COMPETES is critical legislation to ensure that Silicon Valley and America retain globalleadership for the next forty years.” COMPETES is a product of the Innovation Agenda, which Rep. Eshoolaunched in Silicon Valley In 2005, Norm Augustine and the National Academy of Sciencespresented a report entitled “RisingAbove the Gathering Storm,” which detailed the grave need for the U.S.to enhance its basic research funding and math and science education. In response to the report, Rep. Eshoo, alongwith then-House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Rep.Zoe Lofgren, and Rep. George Miller, launched a series of meetings-beginning atStanford University-with the high-technology,biotechnology, venture capital and academic communities. They developed a set of policy proposals, the Innovation Agenda, tostrengthen American competitiveness. Theoriginal COMPETES legislation, passedin 2007, contained key elements of the Innovation Agenda. “That bill laid the foundation for America’sfuture success. It has already preparedthousands of teachers in math and science. It doubled the funding for the NSF, DOE’s Office of Science, NIST, andthe Manufacturing Extension Partnership over ten years. It established the new Advanced ResearchProjects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E), and funded high-risk, high-reward,pre-competitive technology development,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Today’s vote keepsthese investments in innovation on track.” H.R. 5325 has broad support with the endorsement of morethan 750 business, research and academic organizations, including Chamber ofCommerce, National Association of Manufacturers, Information TechnologyIndustry Council, Business Roundtable, TechNet, American Council on Education,and American Association for the Advancement of Science. It passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 261-148. ###
05.17.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Celebrates Asian Pacific Heritage Month May 17th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), released the following statement in honor of Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: “This month is a special opportunity to recognize the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community. Today I stand with over 150,000 of my Asian American and Pacific Islander constituents in California’s 14th Congressional District. Economically, culturally, academically and politically, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders are a significant and vital part of our community and add to the rich tapestry that is our great nation. “In February 2009, working with President Obama, the Congress enacted a sweeping, historic Recovery Act to jumpstart the economy, which has created up to 2.8 million jobs to date and tax cuts for 98% of America’s working families – including millions of Asian American and Pacific Islander families. “The Congress continues to enact key job creation bills – including the Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act, and the HIRE Act. This will help the 1.1 million Asian American and Pacific Islander-owned small businesses across the country. “Another key focus of this Congress has been enacting comprehensive health insurance reform, which puts American families in control of their own health care; makes health insurance more affordable; and holds insurance companies accountable. Overall, an additional 32 million more Americans will gain health care coverage – including hundreds of thousands of Asian American and Pacific Islander households. In addition, reform moves toward elimination of disparities that Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders currently face in their health care and expands initiatives to strengthen cultural competency training among health care providers and increase the racial and ethnic diversity of health care professionals. “The contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders to our country are significant and I am privileged to represent this community in California’s 14th Congressional District.” ###
05.06.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Create Jobs, Reduce Energy Usage through Energy Efficiency Rebates May 6th, 2010 Washington, D.C. -Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to create jobs and reduce energy usage through energy efficiency retrofit incentives. H.R. 5019, the Homestar Energy Retrofit Act of 2010 initiates a two-year, six billion dollar program to spur home energy retrofits by providing consumers direct rebates for specific efficiency measures-including insulation, duct sealing, and water heaters-as well as rewards for the percentage of energy saved in a whole-home retrofit. “This sensible legislation addresses two of the most pressing issues of our day: our immediate need for jobs and our future energy reliance,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It will save money through efficiency, decrease energy use and create domestic jobs that cannot be outsourced. It’s a win for everyone.” The bill is estimated to create 170,000 jobs and save families close to $10 billion in energy bills in the next decade. In 2011, it would save the electricity equivalent of 6.8 million barrels of oil. “These past few weeks, the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has reminded us of the destructive power of our energy habits and the urgent need to reduce our dependence on 20th century fuels,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I also know personally just how important energy efficiency renovations can be and how much money they can save. I’m very proud that my District Office in Palo Alto is now the only Congressional office in the country that is Green Certified by the Bay Area Green Business Program. The improvements and policies we’ve introduced in my office save taxpayer money and reduce pollution and energy usage throughout our District.” H.R. 5019 passed the House by a vote of 246-161. ###
04.29.2010	+ SHARE 14th Congressional District Energy Technology Projects Funded By Recovery Act April 29th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Department of Energy announced the awarding today of $106 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to 37 research projects across the country for the development of new clean energy technologies. Approximately $10 million will be awarded to projects in the 14th Congressional District. “Investments in clean energy technology have been one of the most important and successful aspects of the Recovery Act to create or save more than 900,000 jobs,” Rep. Eshoo said. “These investments are helping to put our economy back on track, they are creating jobs for a new domestic industry, and they will ultimately position America to compete and become the global leader in producing clean energy.” Today’s awards are part of $100 billion allocated in the Recovery Act for job creation and economic growth through innovation, science and technology. The awards are funded through the Advanced Research Projects Agency – Energy (ARPA-E) which is modeled after the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)-the agency responsible for technological innovations such as the Internet and stealth technology. In 2007, Rep. Eshoo was an original cosponsor of the ARPA-E legislation and worked to provide funding for the new agency in the Recovery Act. “Funding from DARPA helped spark innovation in Silicon Valley and made it the world’s technology epicenter. ARPA-E continues this legacy, igniting new discoveries in energy technology that can change the world as profoundly as the internet,” Rep. Eshoo said. “As one of the most innovative centers of the country, Silicon Valley will continue to be a focal point for ARPA-E investment and the place to watch for new clean technology breakthroughs.” To date, the Department of Energy has awarded over $130 million in project funding in the 14th Congressional District. The following projects in the 14th Congressional District were awarded funding in today’s announcement: $4,657,045 to Codexis Inc. Carbon Capture Technology: Applying biology to the problem of carbon capture, this project will use enzymes and a novel directed evolution process to increase reactivity to capture CO2 and to resist degradation in the harsh flue gases of coal-fired power plants. $3,204,080 to Pellion Technologies, Inc.Magnesium-Ion Battery: The project will develop an inexpensive, rechargeable magnesium-ion battery for electric and hybrid-electric vehicle applications. If successful, this project will develop the first commercial magnesium-ion battery and establish U.S. technology leadership in a new field. $1,000,000 to Stanford University Novel All-Electron Battery: Researchers will seek to develop an ‘All-Electron Battery’, a completely new class of electrical energy storage devices for electric vehicles. $1,000,000 to Recapping, Inc.Capacitive Storage: The project will develop a novel energy storage device – a high energy density capacitor. ###
04.29.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Improve Accountability and Reduce Waste in Government Programs April 29th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted last night for H.R. 3393, the Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act, which is designed to identify, reduce, and prevent improper payments from federal agencies. Improper payments occur when a federal agency pays too much, pays twice, or pays for the wrong product or service. They can occur as a result of fraud or from poor financial management systems that do not detect or prevent mistakes before federal dollars are misspent. According to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), federal agencies were estimated to have made nearly $100 billion in improper payments in FY 2009. 94% of improper payments come from just eleven programs: the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, School Lunch, Medicare Fee-for-Service, Medicaid, Medicare Advantage (Part C), Public Housing and Rental Assistance, Unemployment Insurance, Earned Income Tax Credit, Highway Planning and Construction, Supplemental Security Income, and Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance. “Every dollar spent by a federal agency is a taxpayer dollar that someone has worked hard to earn, so agencies have a high responsibility to spend that money correctly,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will add much-needed transparency to payments from agencies and help to ensure that two dollars aren’t spent when only one is owed.” The legislation will prevent future improper payments by increasing transparency of payments and requiring agencies to develop action plans to avoid future waste, recover overpayments, and increase accountability for expenditures. It will implement the following new requirements for federal agencies: The head of each federal agency must review agency programs and activities every three fiscal years and identify those that may be susceptible to improper payments. Agency heads must produce a statistically valid estimate every year of improper payments in their agencies. Agencies must report on actions to reduce and recover improper payments. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget must report to Congressional committees on actions agencies have taken to report on and recover improper payments. Agency heads must conduct recovery audits for agency programs that expend $1 million or more annually, where it makes fiscal sense to do so. Each agency’s Inspector General must report each fiscal year on agency compliance with this Act. “$100 billion of overpayments from federal agencies is unacceptable and it’s never affordable. This is more than double the Department of Homeland Security’s entire budget,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Federal agencies must do much more to identify and prevent improper payments and address the management weaknesses that cause them. This bill puts in place a plan and requires accountability so that agencies crack down on this type of waste.” H.R. 3393 passed the House by a voice vote. ###
04.28.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Freeze on Pay for Members of Congress April 28th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo voted last night to prevent an automatic pay increase for Members of Congress. H.R. 5146 blocks the annual cost-of-living adjustment–$1,600 this year–for the salaries of Members of Congress in 2011. The pay freeze will save taxpayers about a million dollars. “These are tough economic times and many of my constituents have been struggling to make ends meet. Everyone has had to tighten their belt and Members of Congress should as well. That’s why I voted to deny a pay raise for myself,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The money saved can be put to better use for the needs of the American people.” This is the second year in a row that Rep. Eshoo has voted for and Congress has approved a pay freeze. H.R. 5146 passed the House by a vote of 402-15. Last week, the Senate passed identical legislation by a voice vote. ###
04.22.2010	+ SHARE Legislation Will Repay Counties Who Lost Billions in Lehman Collapse April 22nd, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Restitution for Local Government Act of 2010 today to help counties and other public entities recoup over $1.7 billion lost when Lehman Brothers collapsed in September 2008, representing the single largest bankruptcy in the history of the United States. The legislation would require the Treasury Department to purchase Lehman’s assets from these municipalities using profits from the sale of any future TARP assets. “The purpose of TARP was to prevent the collapse of financial institutions and mitigate the damage of their reckless behavior on the American people. More than 40 municipalities, including San Mateo County in my Congressional District, invested over a billion dollars in the purportedly stable and safe financial products of Lehman Brothers,” Rep. Eshoo said. “When Lehman collapsed, San Mateo County and other public agencies across the country were crippled, and we owe them some relief.” The State of California requires San Mateo County to invest county money in an investment pool. The pool lost $155 million when Lehman collapsed, including the investments of the Community College District, school districts, and the transportation agency. As a result of the loss, teachers have been laid off, road and school repairs have been canceled, and construction of new buildings halted. A report commissioned by the county estimated that over 1,500 jobs were lost or not created because of the loss of taxpayer dollars. The Treasury Department has earned $15.4 billion from dividends, interest, and the sale of bank stock which it purchased through TARP. It is expected that another $7.5 billion from the sale of their 27 percent stake in Citigroup will be earned. The Restitution for Local Government Act will require the Treasury to use future profits from TARP assets to purchase Lehman securities, bonds, and other financial instruments held by local governments on September 12, 2008, the Friday before Lehman collapsed. Under the legislation, entities which receive funds must report back to the federal government about how the money is used and demonstrate job creation, retention, and economic activity equal to the amount of funds they received. “By selling TARP assets, the federal government has already made more than ten times the amount of money that public institutions lost when Lehman collapsed,” Rep. Eshoo said, “My legislation will require the Secretary of the Treasury to provide relief to these institutions with any future profit.” Rep. Jackie Speier (D-San Francisco/San Mateo), a cosponsor of the measure, stated, “Lehman Brothers’ financial practices were mired in deceit and deception. The ensuing investment losses have fallen directly on the shoulders of my constituents who have to bear the burden of reduced educational, health and public safety services. It is imperative that this measure be enacted to protect the welfare of residents of all the municipalities stung by the Lehman Brothers’ shell game.” ###
04.21.2010	+ SHARE Some Insurance Companies Will Provide Immediate Coverage for Young Adults Under Age 26 April 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today announced that some insurance companies will begin to voluntarily provide coverage for graduating college seniors and young adults under the age of 26 in advance of the September start date included in the recently signed health insurance reform legislation. Young people are currently the most likely to be uninsured, with 47 percent of those age 19 to 24 having gone without health insurance at some point last year. The new law, passed by Congress last month, extends coverage to young Americans until their 26th birthday through their parents’ health care plan, at the parents’ discretion. For American families, this new law means greater access to more affordable coverage; greater accountability to end the worst practices of the insurance industry; greater innovation and competiveness in our economy; and greater stability and security for seniors, students, workers, and entrepreneurs and small business owners. “One of the great accomplishments of healthcare reform is the extension of insurance to so many young Americans who currently lack coverage,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This provision will fill a significant gap in those who are covered, widen the insurance pool, and ultimately help lower costs. I commend the early adoption of this provision and I hope the other insurance companies will work with Secretary Sebelius to follow suit.” Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius announced that WellPoint and United Healthcare will bridge any possible gap in coverage between now and the Fall-when the age 26 provision becomes effective. Secretary Sebelius says she expects at least some other health insurers to follow suit. The HHS also sent a letter to other insurance companies offering to work with each of them on this issue. ###
04.20.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Testifies on Lehman Brothers Collapse April 20th, 2010 Announces Legislation to Recoup Local Government Losses April 20, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) testified as the opening witness during today’s hearing in the House Financial Services Committee about the dubious business practices of Lehman Brothers, as uncovered in the Lehman Bankruptcy Examiner’s report. At the hearing, Rep. Eshoo spoke to the Committee about the $155 million San Mateo County lost when Lehman collapsed, unlike other large financial institutions which were saved. Rep. Eshoo also announced that she will introduce the Restitution for Local Government Act of 2010 to assist counties that are still suffering as a result of the Lehman collapse. Rep. Eshoo released the following statement after her testimony: “The Examiner’s report laid bare how the collapse of Lehman Brothers resulted from risky, deceptive practices which exemplify the worst excesses of Wall Street and the root causes of the financial crisis that led us into the deepest recession since the Great Depression. These practices may not be illegal, but they are criminal. The report underscores the fundamental need in our nation for common-sense financial reform to bring transparency to the market place, as well as protection of investors and taxpayers. “More than 40 municipalities, including San Mateo County in my Congressional District, had invested over a billion dollars in the purportedly stable and safe financial products of Lehman Brothers. When Lehman collapsed, all of these taxpayer funds were lost. The affects of this loss are still being felt today-teachers are being laid off, schools are not being built or renovated, roads are not being improved, and transportation plans are being scrapped. “That’s why I announced during today’s hearing that I will introduce the Restitution for Local Government Act of 2010. The federal government has already received more than $15 billion from the sale of bank stock that it purchased through the TARP program. These transactions total more than ten times the amount of money that all public institutions lost when Lehman collapsed. My legislation will require the Secretary of the Treasury to provide relief to the counties affected by the Lehman collapse. “The counties who invested in Lehman and their residents are victims who had no hand in the crisis, but suffered the worst for it, and they deserve more than just reform-they deserve redress. I look forward to moving this legislation forward, assisting the public agencies who invested in Lehman, and ending the irresponsible, immoral financial practices which led the entire nation to recession.” ### Click here to read Rep. Eshoo’s full testimony from the Hearing.
04.15.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Key Energy Legislation in Committee April 15th, 2010 April 15, 2010 Washington, D.C. – As a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for two key pieces of energy legislation designed to create jobs through energy efficiency retrofit incentives and protect electric grid infrastructure from potential threats. Both measures passed the Energy and Commerce Committee and will move to the Floor for a final vote before the full House of Representatives. The Homestar Energy Retrofit Act of 2010 passed the Committee by a vote of 30-17 and will create a two-year, six billion dollar program designed to spur home energy retrofits by providing direct incentives to homeowners to install American-made energy-saving products and conduct whole-home retrofits. The bill is estimated to create 170,000 jobs and save families close to $10 billion in energy bills in the next decade. In 2011, it would save the electricity equivalent of 6.8 million barrels of oil. “This is the type of legislation we need to help jumpstart clean energy industries. The bill gives much-needed incentives to homeowners to upgrade with energy efficient products. It will save money through efficiency, decrease energy use and create domestic jobs that can’t be outsourced. It’s a win for everyone,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I know personally just how important retrofitting can be and how much money it can save. I’m very proud that my District Office in Palo Alto was retrofitted and it is now Green Certified by the Bay Area Green Business Program. The improvements and policies we’ve introduced in my Palo Alto office save taxpayer money and reduce pollution and energy usage in our District.” H.R. 5026, the Grid Reliability and Infrastructure Defense (GRID) Act, passed the Committee by a unanimous vote of 47-0. The U.S. electric grid is increasingly reliant on automation and computer systems, which makes it potentially susceptible to cyberattacks. The bill provides the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission the authority to issue emergency orders to protect the bulk power grid upon a presidential finding of either threats of cyberattacks, or physical interference. “Government, businesses, and individuals all depend on grid reliability for our energy usage-from running supercomputers to turning on the lights,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It’s essential that we protect our grid by increasing our ability to adapt to threats and ensure our national security interests.” As a senior member of the House Intelligence Committee, Rep. Eshoo has been at the forefront of the cybersecurity issue in Congress and has participated in numerous classified hearings and briefings about potential vulnerabilities and threats to the electric grid. In 2008, she helped draft a white paper, recently cited in the President’s 60-day cyber security review, about these vulnerabilities and the necessity of protective measures. ###
04.07.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo’s Statement on DC Circuit Decision in Comcast Case April 7th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) issued the following statement concerning the D.C. Circuit’s decision in the Comcast v. FCC case: “The court’s decision in the Comcast case shows why the current FCC Net Neutrality rulemaking is so important. The DC Circuit has made it clear that there can be no administrative shortcuts to resolving this issue. The FCC must act decisively within existing law to protect consumers and preserve the Internet’s open architecture. “I have confidence in Chairman Genachowski’s ability to answer the Court’s concerns and to ensure that service providers act in the public interest. I believe that the FCC has the power to do so under the Communications Act. “But I’m prepared to do legislatively whatever cannot be accomplished administratively. That’s why I joined my colleagues Representatives Markey and Waxman to introduce the Internet Freedom Preservation Act. (H.R. 3458) “America’s future leadership in the technology sector will depend upon the ability of all of our citizens to access the Internet equally. We cannot afford to let the Internet be held hostage by service providers and their financial interests.” ###
04.07.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Anna G. Eshoo’s Statement: DC Circuit Decision in Comcast Case April 7th, 2010 Palo Alto — Today, Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) issued the following statement concerning the D.C. Circuit’s decision in the Comcast v. FCC case: “The court’s decision in the Comcast case shows why the current FCC Net Neutrality rulemaking is so important. The DC Circuit has made it clear that there can be no administrative shortcuts to resolving this issue. The FCC must act decisively within existing law to protect consumers and preserve the Internet’s open architecture. “I have confidence in Chairman Genachowski’s ability to answer the Court’s concerns and to ensure that service providers act in the public interest. I believe that the FCC has the power to do so under the Communication’s Act. “But I’m prepared to do legislatively whatever cannot be accomplished administratively. That’s why I joined my colleagues Representatives Markey and Waxman to introduce the Internet Freedom Preservation Act. (H.R. 3458) “America’s future leadership in the technology sector will depend upon the ability of all of our citizens to access the Internet equally. We cannot afford to let the Internet be held hostage by service providers and their financial interests.” [###]
03.25.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for the Small Business and Infrastructure Act March 25th, 2010 BUILD AMERICA BONDS Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted for H.R. 4849, the Small Business and Infrastructure Jobs Act, the latest in a series of measures designed to create jobs and strengthen the economy. The legislation extends bonds and emergency provisions from last year’s American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and provides tax cuts for small businesses and entrepreneurs. “Last year, the Recovery Act created or saved 256,000 jobs in California,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will extend some of the most effective Recovery Act provisions so we can continue to spur economic growth and create new jobs this year.” H.R. 4849 extends the following provisions from the Recovery Act: Build America Bonds, which provide funding for state and local governments at lower borrowing costs than traditional tax-exempt bonds. According to Time Magazine, these bonds are “one of the economic recovery efforts biggest successes.” In the past year, Build America Bonds provided more than $185 million to cities and school districts in the 14th Congressional District. Recovery Zone Bonds, which are targeted bonds for urban areas with nationally high unemployment. California received $1.2 billion of these bonds last year. TANF Emergency Fund, which helps states establish or expand subsidized jobs programs. This program has accounted for 160,000 job placements in 35 states, including California, but would expire for many states in April or June without the extension. “Federal funds have helped our communities keep schools open and public transportation running despite the economic crisis and the state’s budget crisis,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We must continue to support these necessary services, while also encouraging start-ups and small businesses-the private industries that will create the jobs and revenue of the future.” The bill provides the following tax incentives to small businesses and entrepreneurs: Exclusion of small business capital gains. The bill excludes 100% of capital gain income for stock in small businesses, to incentivize new investments. Deduction for business start-up expenditures. The bill increases the amount deductible for start-up expenses for new business, from $5,000 under current law to $20,000. This is designed to assist small business owners in overcoming barriers to beginning a business, hiring new workers, and expanding. The bill passed the House by a vote of 246-178. ###
03.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo’s Statement on the Passage of Historic Healthcare Reform March 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and the Subcommittee on Health, released the following statement about today’s vote on healthcare reform: “More than a century has passed since Teddy Roosevelt first called for healthcare reform. Today we have finally kept our promise to the American people that they will have affordable health insurance which they cannot lose or have taken away from them if they become ill. “The U.S. spends more on healthcare than any other country in the world and the costs are crippling to our economy. This legislation will reduce the deficit by a whopping $143 billion over ten years and $1.2 trillion over twenty years, the single largest deficit reduction plan in 25 years. It will eliminate discriminatory insurance practices and it will open the insurance market to millions of Americans who have been priced-out. “I believe that by voting for this legislation, I am standing on the right side of history. Our achievement is also a tribute to Senator Edward Kennedy. His unwavering commitment to decent healthcare for all Americans paved the way for this landmark legislation and today’s historic vote.” ###
03.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Historic Increase to Student Aid March 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and the House of Representatives passed the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act as part of the health insurance reform package. “This is the largest single increase ever made to student aid funding, and as such, it is historic,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill renews our commitment to our children and eases the cost of college for students and their families, lowering the debt of graduates, and strengthening community colleges and early learning programs.” The legislation increases funding for a variety of scholarships and student loans, including the Pell Grant scholarship and the Perkins Loan program, and updates the method by which loans are administered. It will lower the interest rates on need-based loans and convert all new student loans, starting in July 2010, to the cost-efficient Direct Loan program which is not affected by changes in the financial markets. The bill also encourages expanded educational opportunities by supporting community colleges, workforce programs, online training, and adult education. “We owe our children the opportunity to be successful, and this begins with an affordable, world-class education,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill widens the door to that opportunity.” The bill complies with the House “PAYGO” requirement, a provision in the House Rules which stipulates that legislation passed by the House cannot increase the federal deficit. The legislation actually exceeds this requirement and will reduce the deficit by $10 billion over 10 years. ###
03.19.2010	+ SHARE Steven Pearlstein’s Op-Ed in the Washington Post March 19th, 2010 Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist Steven Pearlstein wrote an op-ed in today’s Washington Post about passage of health insurance reform. Amidst everything being said about this issue, Rep. Eshoo felt this article stood out and wanted to share it with her constituents. Here are a few excerpts from the column : Sometimes, those of us who live here and participate in political life can get a bit cynical. We tend to focus on the process or the gamesmanship or the unsavory compromises. Which is why it is important at moments such as this to get your head out of the weeds, look at the Capitol dome in the distance and remember how lucky you are to have a front-row seat to one of the world’s longest-running historical dramas. What strikes me about the lead-up to this weekend’s health-care vote in the House is how quiet things actually are. One of the silliest Republican talking points is that Democrats are “ramming health-care reform down the throats of the American people.” In fact, we’ve been talking about it, on and off, for decades, ultimately winding up with a solution that is not only remarkably centrist but also not all that different from the compromise nearly reached between Ted Kennedy and the Nixon White House in the early 1970s. Passing a health-care reform bill would restore not only a measure of trust and confidence in our political process but also, more significantly, trust and confidence in ourselves.
03.16.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises FCC Broadband Plan March 16th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today praised the FCC’s Nationwide Broadband Plan as “insightful, analytical and forward-thinking.” The FCC is slated to consider the Plan at a Commission Meeting on Tuesday, March 16th and deliver it formally to Congress the next day. “The FCC released aninsightful, analytical Broadband Plan that recognizes the importance ofincluding all Americans in nationwide deployment, while at the same timeemphasizing the importance of these services to our economic health,” Rep.Eshoo said. “This plan will bring us back to where we should be-as the globalleader in telecommunications services.” The Broadband Plan’slong term goals include rolling out high speed service of at least 100 megabitsper second to at least 100 million U.S. households. Other goals include making services moreaffordable and ensuring better speeds and access for anchor institutions suchas schools, libraries and hospitals. TheFCC also recommended a free, nationwide broadband lifeline similar to the onerecommended by Rep. Eshoo during recent congressional hearings. Rep. Eshoo has longbeen a champion of faster speeds and anchor institutions, and she specificallylauded the Commission’s plan to set the bar high. “Telecommunicationsis essential to driving our economy and creating jobs,” she said. “It can’t just be for those at the upper endof the economic spectrum. It needs to beavailable for all Americans. We cannotafford to leave anyone behind.” Several of themeasures outlined in the plan specifically track legislative proposalsengineered by Rep. Eshoo. One of theproposals, to use federal funding to advance next-generation 9-1-1 call centertechnology, mirrors the bill Rep. Eshoo offered last week, H.R. 4829, the Next Generation Preservation Act of 2010. Another significantproposal calls for the federal government to facilitate efficient newinfrastructure construction, including “dig once” policies that would makefederal financing of highway, road and bridge projects contingent on states andlocalities permitting joint deployment of broadband infrastructure. Rep. Eshoo drafted and is the principalsponsor of the Broadband ConduitDeployment Act of 2009, which would require federal transportation projectsto provide for broadband conduit infrastructure. “It’s good to seethat the Commission did not reinvent the wheel, but considered all of theproposals that are already on the books,” Rep. Eshoo noted. “From Smartgrid technology to HealthInformation Technology, the FCC has considered the impact of broadband acrossthe board of every conceivable aspect of American life.” Rep. Eshoo is amember of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which will overseeimplementation of most of the FCC’s recommendations. The Committee is expected to consider theproposals in the next few weeks. “I look forward to athorough review of the plan and the implementation of those parts that willmost benefit the American consumer,” Rep. Eshoo said. ###
03.12.2010	+ SHARE Congressional E911 Caucus Introduces Legislation to Fund and Improve 9-1-1 Systems March 12th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The bi-partisan, bi-cameral Congressional E-911 Caucus, co-chaired by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Rep. John Shimkus (R-IL), Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MI), and Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC), is introducing legislation to upgrade America’s 9-1-1 call center technology nationwide. The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act of 2010 reauthorizes key grants and programs to ensure continued funding for the nation’s 6,000 9-1-1 centers and programs. The Senate will introduce the measure on Monday, while the House introduced their version today. “This bill is about public safety at its most basic level. Our 9-1-1 call centers are the first point of contact for Americans in an emergency situation,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need to make certain they have all the tools necessary to stay safe and get help when they need it.” The 9-1-1 call centers receive more than 650,000 distress calls from across the nation every day and are primarily funded through state taxes on phone bills. The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act reauthorizes a five year federal grant program to support state 9-1-1 services and improve technology. It also introduces improvements to the national E911 Implementation Coordination Office, which helps states to upgrade technology and coordinate services between call centers. “This legislation is about more than reauthorizing grant programs, it’s about creating and maintaining a coordinated approach to 9-1-1 response technology on a nationwide level,” Rep. Shimkus said. “The Next Generation 9-1-1 technology needs to be fostered and advanced by experts on a national level with the resources to target specific public safety needs.” “Every day, 9-1-1 call centers provide emergency and often life saving services to Americans,” said Klobuchar. “We need to make sure the technology of our 9-1-1 call centers is updated so that emergency personnel have the tools they need to keep people safe and provide assistance to those in need.” “This reauthorization is a real step forward in getting our rescue workers the tools they need,” Senator Burr said. “Technology has come a long way since the 9-1-1 system was first established, and we must continue to modernize our call centers to keep up with these changes. This legislation will ensure necessary upgrades for the emergency response infrastructure, and will ensure that E9-1-1 fees are used for their intended purposes.” According to the Federal Communications Commission, some states have a history of diverting their 9-1-1 funds to support other programs. The Next Generation 9-1-1 Preservation Act prevents states that divert funds from receiving the grants in the legislation. “This is the carrot and stick approach. This bill makes certain that 9-1-1 funds actually go toward funding 9-1-1- call centers,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We need to make certain that the funds are used for the purpose that they are intended if we want to maintain our emergency call centers.” The E911 Caucus is bi-partisan and bi-cameral and dedicated to the education of Members of the House and Senate about the relationship of E911 call center technology to public safety. House Co-chairs Eshoo and Shimkus founded the group 7 years ago to educate their colleagues about the importance of 9-1-1 call centers and the need for technology improvements to speed public safety’s coordination and response time to emergencies. Both are senior members of the House Communications, Technology and the Internet Subcommittee. Senate Co-chair Klobuchar serves on the Senate Commerce Committee, which oversees public safety communications issues. Co-chair Burr serves on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and maintains an active interest in communications policies affecting government agencies and public safety entities. The Caucus works to achieve the continued reliability of 9-1-1 over legacy and future communications services and applications; a coordinated transition to Next Generation 9-1-1 and emergency communications systems; recognition of 9-1-1 as an integral part of our nation’s homeland security; aggressive and effective oversight of federal agencies responsible for 9-1-1; effective education of the public on the appropriate use of 9-1-1; proper funding for 9-1-1 systems, networks, operations, and training; effective and direct access to emergency response systems for persons with disabilities; and improved coordination and information sharing across jurisdictional boundaries and among emergency response personnel and organizations. ###
03.10.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on the Kucinich Resolution to Remove All Troops from Afghanistan March 10th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement on H.Con.Res. 248, Directing the President to Remove the United States Armed Forces from Afghanistan. It is with a heavy heart that I oppose this resolution. I have serious reservations about the presence of U.S. Forces in Afghanistan. I opposed the President’s plan to send additional troops into that country, and I opposed funding for the surge. I was reassured when the President said that he wanted to begin withdrawing U.S. troops beginning in 2011. I joined 137 of my colleagues to vote with Representative McGovern to demand that the President provide a plan for withdrawing from Afghanistan, and have been deeply concerned that the mission for our troops there is not clear. If their mission is not well defined, how can we expect to judge success? I do not support an open-ended commitment without clear goals. But I also cannot support a sudden withdrawal without a plan to protect American lives and American interests. And that’s why I will vote against this Resolution. This Resolution directs the President to remove all U.S. forces from Afghanistan 30 days from adoption, unless the President decides it is not safe to do so. He would then have until the end of 2010 to remove all U.S. forces from Afghanistan. This language is absolute and provides no exceptions. It does not provide exceptions for U.S. forces that might be necessary to safeguard U.S. embassy personnel. It does not provide exceptions for our intelligence community or Special Forces so they can continue to support Afghanistan and Pakistan in the search for al Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. It does not provide exceptions for U.S. military personnel who are engaged in training the Afghanistan National Army or Afghanistan National Police to provide their own security. We should not be involved in a civil war in Afghanistan, but there are a few, limited missions in Afghanistan that may be necessary to protect our national interests. This Resolution does not allow us any flexibility to address those missions, and this is why I cannot support a policy that endangers the lives of U.S. personnel on the ground and allow Al Qaeda to continue to destabilize the border region between Afghanistan and Pakistan, and potentially strike us here at home. I hope Representative Kucinich will refine his legislation and work with the President to present us with a plan to bring our troops home safely and in a timely manner. ###
02.25.2010	+ SHARE Eshoo Passes Legislation to Curb Corporate ‘Moonlighting’ in the Intelligence Community February 25th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Earlier this month, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) learned that employees in the intelligence community started a company to sell “deception detection” services to hedge funds, and ran this company while they were federal employees. A senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Rep. Eshoo immediately began a review of current conflict of interest rules in the intelligence community. “I discovered, to my great surprise, that this activity had been approved by their agencies,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Clearly, we need to tighten up that process.” Today the House of Representatives adopted an amendment to H.R. 2701, FY 2010 Intelligence Authorization, sponsored by Rep. Eshoo, to strengthen conflict of interest rules for employees of intelligence agencies who engage in outside employment. “Government employees, and especially those in the intelligence community, should adhere to the highest ethical standards,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The American people must have confidence that government employees are working in the best interests of the nation, not in their personal self-interest.” The amendment requires the Director of National Intelligence to establish an intelligence community-wide conflict of interest regulation working in conjunction with the Office of Government Ethics, to establish a community-wide process for checking outside employment for conflicts of interest, and to submit an annual report to the intelligence committees on all outside employment activities that were approved in the previous year. The amendment also prohibits employees from owning companies that sell skills that are related to their government service. The amendment passed by a voice vote. It was cosponsored by Representatives John Tierney (D-MA), Dan Boren (D-OK), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Mike Thompson (D-CA), Rush Holt (D-NJ), Mike Rogers (R-MI), and Sue Myrick (R-NC). ###
02.24.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Repeal Health Insurance Antitrust Exemption February 24th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to require the health insurance industry to compete under the same antitrust laws as other U.S. industries. H.R. 4626, the Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act repeals the industry’s 65 year-old antitrust exemption which has prevented the federal government from investigating price fixing, collusion, or the sabotage of competitors-activities which are illegal in other industries. “Monopolies, price-gouging, and extortionary practices are unacceptable in any other business, yet they have become synonymous with the health insurance industry,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Today, the health insurance industry and Major League Baseball are the only two American industries allowed to operate with an antitrust exemption. This bill will finally require the insurers to play by the same rules as everyone else. It is an important step on the road to reform.” In the last 14 years alone, the antitrust exemption has allowed health insurers to engage in over 400 mergers. Currently, 94% of all insurance markets are highly concentrated, meaning consumers in these areas have little or no choice between insurance providers. “Competition drives our economy,” Rep. Eshoo said. “By repealing the antitrust exemption, this bill will promote much needed competition in the health insurance industry. It will also lower the costs of insurance, while raising the quality of coverage and choices.” The legislation is overwhelmingly supported by health and consumer groups, including the American Hospital Association, the American Nurses Association, the American Academy of Pediatrics, the Consumers Union, the Consumer Federation of America, the Center for Justice and Democracy, and U.S. PIRG. The Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act passed by a bipartisan vote of 406-19. ###
02.18.2010	+ SHARE Statement from Congresswoman Anna Eshoo on Plane Crash in East Palo Alto February 18th, 2010 February 18, 2009 Congresswoman Eshoo expresses her sympathies to Tesla onthe loss of their employees and hails the work of first responders Washington, D.C.-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) visitedthe site of yesterday’s plane crash in East Palo Alto, meeting with NTSB, FAAand other local agency officials, and was briefed about the ongoinginvestigation. She worked with local officials and federal agencies torestore power to the City of Palo Alto. Rep. Eshoo released the following statement about the tragic crash: “I’m deeply saddened by the passing of three brilliant andbeloved Tesla workers in yesterday’s plane crash. I join all of myconstituents and colleagues in expressing our deepest condolences to theircoworkers, friends and families.” “I pay tribute to all of the first responders who riskedtheir lives to help my constituents in need. Specifically, I want toacknowledge the leadership of East Palo Alto Chief of Police Ron Davis theteams from San Mateo County and SantaClara Countyas well as the Red Cross for their assistance. I also thank PG & Eand the City of Palo Alto for responding to oururgent requests to restore power throughout the City of Palo Alto especially for our local hospitalsand urgent care facilities that require power in order to sustain life.” “As I visited the neighborhood and met with my constituentsand officials, I learned first hand what each neighbor did for their neighborto save lives on the ground under extreme duress. It is nothing short of amiracle that no lives were lost on the ground.” ###
02.10.2010	+ SHARE Filipino WW II Veterans Compensation Applications Due February 10th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) encourages and reminds all Filipino World War II Veterans eligible for payment under the Filipino Veterans Equity Compensation Fund to file their claims. Claims for this one-time, lump-sum payment must be submitted by February 16, 2010. “Filipino veterans served honorably side-by-side American soldiers during World War II. Many sacrificed their lives, and those who remain deserve what was promised them over sixty years ago,” said Congresswoman Eshoo. Through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, Congress authorized the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to give a total compensation of $198 million to soldiers of the Philippine Government who served before July 1, 1946, while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces of the United States. This also applies to some recognized guerilla forces and Philippine Scouts. Veterans must fill out VA claim form 21-4138(CF) Statement in Support of Claim (Filipino Veterans Equity Compensation Fund). This can be downloaded at: https://eshoo.house.gov or http://www1.va.gov/centerforminorityveterans/ If awarded, Filipino Veterans receive a one-time payment of $15,000 for U.S. citizens, and $9,000 for non-U.S. citizens. Applying for this benefit will not affect other existing veterans benefits. As of January 1, 2010, 39,591 claims have been received and 11,345 applications have been granted. Filipino WW II Veterans must submit the following: – Two forms of identification such as a driver’s license, birth certificate, Senior Citizen ID, Bureau of Post ID, Voter ID Card; – Copies of any military discharge documents showing service in one of the three qualifying types of service mentioned in question #1 above. – U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs claim number (if applicable); and – U.S. citizens should submit copies of pages 2 and 3 of their U.S. passport. Note: Persons who served in the Philippine Scouts under Section 14 of the Armed Forces Voluntary Recruitment Act of 1945 should submit the original or a certified copy of Enlisted Record and Report of Separation, WD AGO FORM 53. All original documents will be returned. Claims can be submitted by mail or in person to any VA Regional Office. They can also be mailed to the address in Manila at the top of the compensation form. Please contact Congresswoman Eshoo’s District Office at (650) 323-2984; the VA at 1-800-827-1000 or go to http://www1.va.gov/centerforminorityveterans/ for more information. ###
02.10.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Anna G. Eshoo Pays Tribute to Congressman John Murtha February 10th, 2010 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman John Murtha: I’m deeply saddened by the passing of Congressman John Murtha. He was a distinguished colleague and a trusted friend, and his death leaves our country bereft of one of its most courageous heroes. How proud I was to nominate him for the coveted John F. Kennedy Profiles in Courage Award, which he was given in 2006. Last Saturday, Congressman Murtha became the longest serving Member of Congress from Pennsylvania. He was elected to the House in 1974, the first Vietnam veteran to serve in the House. He served in the Marine Corps for 37 years, achieving the rank of Colonel, and spent his entire congressional career championing our nation’s armed forces. Congressman Murtha originally voted to authorize the use of force in Iraq, but his unswerving devotion to our troops led him to constantly examine the war effort. After great personal reflection and continual contact with military leadership, he stepped forward in November 2005 and did what members of Congress are charged to do: he spoke truth to power, and said the war must end. Congressman Murtha served our country on the battlefield, winning two Purple Hearts and the Bronze Star. In Congress, he fought for our troops and their families, and was respected and beloved on both sides of the aisle. How honored I am to have served with Congressman Murtha in the House, and to have worked with him on national security matters. His enduring friendship is a gift which I shall cherish always. May the love, prayers and respect of so many be a source of strength to his wife Joyce, and all his family. ###
02.03.2010	+ SHARE Congresswoman Eshoo Salutes Agreement for Permanent Home for the 129th Rescue Wing February 3rd, 2010 February 3, 2010 Washington, D.C.-Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) released the following statement after NASA Ames and the U.S. Air Force reached an agreement to keep the 129th Rescue Wing at Moffett Field for the next 50 years. Rep. Eshoo has worked for 17 years to keep the 129th at Moffett Field which has been the ideal location for their ongoing critical work in local, state, national and global search and rescue. The Bay Area Congressional Delegation, as well as local cities and community organizations have long supported the effort: “At long last the Unit known for taking care of others is being taken care of with a permanent home in the heart of Silicon Valley. This is the first time in the history of the Unit that it will be operating with a long-term agreement. Importantly, this will afford the men and women of the Unit much deserved stability and allow for their leadership to make long-term plans for the future. To my constituents and the greater Bay Area this means we can continue to count on the 129th Rescue Wing in times of need especially in the post 9/11 era. I applaud the leadership of NASA Ames, the Air Force and the California National Guard for working to finalize this long-term lease.” The 129th Rescue Wing is a highly decorated California Air National Guard Unit known for their specialized capabilities in a wide range of environments from fires, floods, earthquakes and hurricanes. The 129th has often been tasked with the medical evacuation of patients from merchant vessels at sea. The federal mission of the 129th is to rapidly deploy worldwide to conduct combat search and rescue operations over land or water, in both hostile and permissive environments. The Unit has performed rescue missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and other locations around the globe. The 129th continues its search and rescue mission anytime, anywhere, living up to the unit motto, “These Things We Do… That Others May Live.” ###
01.26.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Calls On Attorney General to Investigate New Guantanamo Allegations January 26th, 2010 January 26, 2010 Washington, D.C.-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) a senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence issued the following statement today about allegations raised in an article entitled “The Guantanamo ‘Suicides’,” in the March 2010 issue of Harper’s Magazine, authored by Scott Horton: “I am deeply disturbed by the allegations raised in the article relating to the deaths of three detainees at Guantanamo in 2006. “I’m calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to thoroughly investigate these allegations and to also review the work done by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS). “These are grave allegations, which deserve a thorough investigation by the Attorney General of the United States. ### Scott Horton’s article can be found here: http://www.harpers.org/archive/2010/01/hbc-90006368. The full text of the letter appears below: January 25, 2010 Dear Attorney General Holder, It is with grave concern that I read an extensive article entitled “The Guantanamo ‘Suicides’,” in the March 2010 issue of Harper’s Magazine, authored by Scott Horton. In it, it is alleged that the deaths of three detainees at the Guantanamo Bay Detention Facility in June of 2006 were not suicide, as announced by the commander of the facility. The article further cites accounts of witnesses at Guantanamo, as well as statements from other documents that conflict with the conclusions of the base commander. Furthermore, the article also raises questions regarding the thoroughness of the investigation by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) in reviewing the incident. For all of the above reasons, I’m calling on you today to open an investigation of these grave allegations. I’m also calling on you to review the report of the NCIS to determine its veracity, and should your conclusions warrant, to then take the appropriate actions. Sincerely, Anna G. Eshoo Member of Congress
01.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Blasts Supreme Court Decision January 21st, 2010 “It Undermines the ‘Will of the People'” Washington, D.C.-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision to reject corporate spending limits in electoral campaigns: “It is an unfortunate truism that candidates who raise the most money win elections. By allowing corporations unlimited access to their wallets, the Supreme Court today has undermined the principle of the “will of the people” in favor of the “will of the corporation.” Corporations do not vote for candidates…people do. We need to limit, not expand, the perceived and real influence of corporate money in politics and the distrust that perception breeds. Throughout my political career I’ve worked to stem this influence and I’m deeply saddened by today’s ruling. It was a hard fought struggle to enact the McCain-Feingold campaign finance reform. The Supreme Court has upheld this law for years. With this decision, the Supreme Court has thumbed its nose at precedent, at the Congress, and most importantly the will of the people. This is an enormous step in the wrong direction.” Rep. Eshoo has consistently supported measures to limit the effects of corporate money on campaigns. She is a cosponsor of the Fair Elections Now Act and the “Let the People Decide” Clean Campaign Act. Previously, she has cosponsored the Independent Commission on Campaign Finance Reform Act, the American Political Reform Act, and the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (commonly known as McCain-Feingold). ###
01.21.2010	+ SHARE Silicon Valley Company Receives $465 Million for Advanced Vehicle Manufacturing January 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement regarding the Department of Energy’s announcement that it has completed an agreement with Tesla Motors for a $465 million low-interest loan under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Loan Program. The loan will be used for construction of a manufacturing facility located in southern California and a power-train manufacturing facility located in Palo Alto. Tesla estimates that over 1,600 California jobs will be created by this loan. The Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Incentive Program was created in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, and was first funded by Congress in Fiscal Year 2009. This is the second technology development loan agreement signed by DOE with an advanced technology vehicle manufacturer. “Tesla’s Palo Alto power-train manufacturing facility will generate hundreds of green jobs in the Bay Area to assemble electric vehicle equipment for both Tesla and other electric vehicle manufacturers across the country. It is a great source of pride to represent Tesla and Silicon Valley, both of which represent the intersection of innovation and science,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Tesla’s innovative work will create green jobs in our state and our region which will decrease our dependence on foreign oil, and help develop a robust domestic electric vehicle industry.” Rep. Eshoo has been a strong supporter of electric drive vehicles. She was successful in getting a provision, based on her bill H.R. 1742, in the House-passed American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act. Section 122 of ACES promotes the deployment and integration of electric vehicles in regions across the country. ###
01.21.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo’s Statement on Internet Freedom and Security January 21st, 2010 Washington, D.C.–Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the Energy and Commerce Communications, Technology and Internet Subcommittee, issued the following statement in response to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s policy address today on internet freedom: “Secretary Clinton’s remarks strengthen the nation’s commitment to internet freedom. My hope is that the Administration will take this commitment beyond strengthening the groups who support internet freedom. We must also reach out to our international partners to gain their commitment to the free-flow of the internet, to prosecuting those who undermine the internet’s security and transparency, and also support freedom of the internet here at home, which is why I have long advocated for net-neutrality rules to be adopted in our country. “It is essential for the US to make progress in all these areas, and unlike cybersecurity they should not languish for months before further action is taken.” ###
01.19.2010	+ SHARE Recovery Act Funds Over $5 Million in Silicon Valley Next Generation Lighting Projects January 19th, 2010 Washington, D.C.-The Department of Energy announced the awarding of $37 million in funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to support high-efficiency solid-state lighting projects. Over $5 million will be allocated to companies in the 14th Congressional District. “Solid-state lighting offers a tremendous opportunity to reduce our nation’s energy consumption, and the associated cost and environmental impact,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), who represents the 14th District. “I’ve long pushed for funding of these projects and I’m pleased that the Department of Energy has recognized their value and released these awards.” As the Department of Energy noted, solid-state lighting has the potential to be ten times more energy-efficient than traditional incandescent lighting. Lighting accounts for approximately 24 percent of the total electricity generated in the United States today-by 2030, solid-state lighting could reduce electricity use by one-third nationally, saving $30 billion per year. The following funding was awarded to companies in the 14th Congressional District: $1,199,971 to Cambrios Project: Solution-Processable Transparent Conductive Hole Injection Electrode for Organic Light-Emitting Diode Solid-State Lighting $3,993,911 to Applied Materials, Inc. Project: Advanced Epi Tools for Gallium Nitride LED Devices ###
01.14.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Letter Opposing Ugandan Anti-Gay Push January 14th, 2010 Washington, D.C.-In response to the Ugandan government’s introduction of the Anti-Homosexuality Bill of 2009, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) sent the following letter to Perezi K. Kamunanwire, Ambassador of Uganda. January 12, 2010 Dear Ambassador Kamunanwire, I have been greatly disturbed to read of the proposed legislation in Uganda that would impose the death penalty and life imprisonment on individuals who engage in homosexual behavior. Equally troubling is that the proposed law would punish people who fail to report suspected homosexual behavior, thereby criminalizing a wide range of professions that perform confidential counseling services. Many people of strong religious convictions such as myself abhor the content of this legislative proposal and recognize it as an immoral and outrageous effort to eradicate homosexuals and brutally punish those who befriend or counsel these individuals. Uganda already has draconian punishments in place for homosexual behavior, placing it out of step with worldwide standards. The new law would push your country backwards toward a policy that undermines human rights and dignity. Moreover, a nation facing the HIV epidemic should be more introspective as to its causes and the best methods for eliminating this public health problem. If lengthy prison sentences for homosexuals did not curb the onset of the HIV epidemic, it is unlikely that death sentences will eradicate it – especially since the virus is spread through heterosexual as well as homosexual contact. Although I cannot wield a vote against this dangerous path that your nation may take, I can vote against foreign aid for a nation that disregards civilized notions of human decency. Please be assured that I will do just that at the next opportunity, unless Uganda reconsiders this ill-conceived attempt to pass this proposed legislation. Sincerely, Anna G. Eshoo Member of Congress
01.13.2010	+ SHARE The Earthquake in Haiti January 13th, 2010 January 13, 2010 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the followingstatement on the earthquake in Haiti: “The devastation caused by the tragic earthquake in Haiti servesas a reminder of the vulnerability of the many people who live in harm’s way,especially those who have few resources to prepare for disasters or deal withthe aftermath of these horrific events. Watching the coverage has been heart-wrenching and my prayers go out toeveryone affected – the people of Haiti, the international aidworkers and their families, and United Nations personnel. America’s humanitarian aid will beimmediate, and I’m committed to assisting the Haitian people as they rebuildtheir homes, their communities, and their lives.” ### On January 12th, a magnitude 7.0 earthquake struck 10 miles outside of the capital city of Haiti. Full reports of casualties and damage are not yet available. For missing U.S. citizen family members, call 1-888-407-4747. If you are a constituent and have questions about visa issues fornon-citizen family who were looking to come to the United States,please contact Rep. Eshoo’s District Office at 650-323-2984. The State Department’s websitehas further information about relief efforts and the Center forInternational Disaster Information has established a page dedicated tothe earthquake: http://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a.
01.12.2010	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Responds to Attack on Google January 12th, 2010 January 12, 2010 Washington, D.C.-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement in response to Google’s announcement of a cyberattack emanating from China: “I’m deeply disturbed that yet another wave of attacks is coming from China. This raises serious national security concerns. I commend Google for coming forward with information about this attack and for cooperating with law enforcement officials to investigate the origin and nature it. It is important that companies continue to be transparent and open about cyberthreats. “For far too long, cyberattackers have hidden in the shadows. These kind of attacks are unacceptable and undermine confidence in the global economy. I urge other companies possessing such information to come forward to help the government identify the source of these attacks, so that the criminals can be held accountable for their actions.” ###
01.07.2010	+ SHARE Recovery Act Funds Over $25 Million in Silicon Valley Energy Efficiency Projects January 7th, 2010 January 7, 2010 Washington, D.C. – The Department of Energy announced the awarding of $47 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act yesterday to 14 projects across the country for the development of new technologies which will improve energy efficiency in the information and communication technology sectors. More than half of the $47 million will be allocated to projects or companies located in the 14th Congressional District. “As the world’s leader in the development of information and communication technology, Silicon Valley understands the tremendous amount of energy these technologies can require,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), who represents the 14th District. “For years I’ve sought the development and implementation of energy efficiency IT technology. The funding announced today is a key component of this effort and will bolster existing industry efforts, provide significant financial savings, and reduce demand on power generators and stress to our environment.” Last year, Rep. Eshoo sponsored an amendment to the American Clean Energy and Security Act to drive the federal government-the largest consumer of communication and information technology-to adopt a strategy for the purchase and implementation of energy efficiency information, technology, and practices. In 2007 Rep. Eshoo also sponsored legislation to develop metrics and measures for data center efficiency and requested an EPA study to identify steps to increase energy efficiency in information technology. Information technology and telecommunications facilities currently account for about 3 percent of electricity use for the entire United States. The energy efficiency projects announced today could significantly reduce this consumption. Power Assure, a Santa Clara company, estimates its new technology could reduce energy use by 50 percent in data centers and large server farms. The following funding was awarded to projects in the 14th Congressional District: $5,080,312 to Power Assure, Inc. Project: Eliminating Wasted Energy by Automatically Powering Down Servers $7,432,100 to Hewlett-Packard Project: Modular Data Center with Integrated Alternating Current (AC), Cooling, and Distributed Energy Systems to Reduce Energy Requirements $9,921,887 to Yahoo!, Inc. Project: Next Generation Passive Cooling Design for Data Centers $2,843,985 to Edison Materials Technology Center Project: Energy Reduction from a Very Dense Liquid Cooled Compute Platform ###
12.15.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Passes Bill to End Loud TV Ads December 15th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Blaring television advertisements took another step toward extinction today when the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1084, the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, by a voice vote. The bill will prevent television advertisements from playing at a volume noticeably above the programs during which they air. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) drafted the bipartisan bill and shepherded it through the House. “This problem has existed for more than 50 years, but no one has properly addressed it,” Rep. Eshoo said. “Under the CALM Act, consumers will no longer have to dive for the mute button.” Loud commercials have been at the top of consumer complaints to the FCC for decades. Current official FCC policy recommends that consumers “mute” commercials if they find them excessively strident. Under the CALM Act, advertisers will have one year to adopt industry technology which modulates sound levels and prevents overly loud commercials. “It’s been a singular pleasure working on this legislation. The CALM Act is an easy fix for a tremendous nuisance. In my 17 years in the House of Representatives, I’ve never carried a bill which has been received with so much enthusiasm by people across the country,” Rep. Eshoo said. Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) introduced companion legislation in the Senate on December 8, 2009. ###
12.11.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Bring Oversight to Wall Street and End Bailouts December 11th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, which will strengthen enforcement and oversight of the financial sector, hold Wall Street and big banks accountable for their practices, and end the practice of taxpayer-funded bailouts. The bill will also provide transparency and protect families and small businesses from predatory lending through the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency. “Irresponsible lending, investing, and trading on Wall Street caused the recession and cost Americans $14 trillion in net worth,” Rep. Eshoo noted. “Wall Street and the big banks must be reformed so that the recklessness which occurred will never happen again.” This legislation contains commonsense reforms which will: Ensure financial stability by identifying and regulating financial firms that are so large, interconnected or risky that their collapse would put the entire financial system at risk. End “Too Big to Fail” by establishing an orderly process for dismantling large, failing financial institutions in a way that protects taxpayers and prevents adverse effects on the rest of the financial system. Address egregious bonuses by allowing shareholders a “say on pay” and limiting the risky pay practices used by bank executives which jeopardized the safety and soundness of big banks. Toughen oversight and enforcement to better protect investors, fill loopholes, and respond to financial frauds such as the Madoff Ponzi scheme. Enhance transparency in credit markets whose ratings approved the excessively risky practices that led to the financial collapse. Outlaw predatory industry practices that marked the subprime lending boom and ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. Defend families and small businesses through the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency which is solely devoted to protecting Americans from unfair and abusive financial products and services. This agency will ensure consumers get clear and concise information from banks, mortgage servicers, and credit companies and stop unfair practices. “The financial crisis triggered the worst economic recession since World War II. ,” Rep. Eshoo said. “H.R. 4173 will bring accountability to Wall Street, protect citizens in our District and all across the country, and prevent taxpayers from paying for Wall Street’s mistakes.” The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 passed the House by a vote of 223-202. ###
12.10.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Secures $2.8 Million in Funding for the 14th Congressional District December 10th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) voted today for H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2010, legislation which contains $2.8 million in funding for critical undertakings in the 14th Congressional District, including law enforcement funding; green job training; library construction funds; transportation funds; crisis center funding; and first-time homebuyer assistance: $600,000 for the East Palo Alto Green Job Training Initiative which will create a training program to prepare unemployed residents to take on new green jobs. $300,000 for the creation of a Mobile Emergency Command Center for the San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office. This mobile center will enhance the County’s ability to maintain continuity of emergency and law enforcement operations in the event of a disaster. $200,000 to expand the Half Moon Bay Library. Constructed in 1971 to serve 3,500 people, the library will serve over 36,000 by 2020. The expansion will improve service points, new technologies, gathering areas for children, a space for teens to study, a family literacy center and a community meeting space. $200,000 for the YWCA Silicon Valley Rape Crisis Center to create jobs and fund sexual assault and violence prevention and intervention services for the community. $700,000 for the Revolving Loan Trust for First-Time Homebuyers to fund as many as 62 loans for first-time homebuyers in Santa Clara County. The Housing Trust has helped 2,039 families buy their first home. $100,000 to expand Eden Housing’s Digital Connector At-Risk Youth Program into East Palo Alto and train children who live in the housing complexes in technology use, hardware and software, so that they may use these skills later on. $215,000 to enhance and support the East Palo Alto Violence Prevention Initiative, which cooperates with local, state, and federal enforcement agencies to address gang violence. $1,250,000 for Caltrain’s Collision Avoidance System Project, an integrated signal and communication system which will improve reliability and safety while responding to demand for expanded service along the U.S. 101 corridor. Overall, H.R. 3288 will create an estimated 1.5 million jobs by investing $41.8 billion in highway infrastructure in 2010; increase funding for new commuter and high-speed rail systems by over ten percent; provide a 35% increase in funding for the Small Business Administration, enabling it to support $28 billion in new lending for America’s 25 million small businesses in 2010; and provide additional funds for school improvement, tutoring, mentoring, enrichment activities, and grants for low-income children. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 221-202. ###
12.02.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on the New Policy for the War in Afghanistan December 2nd, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a senior member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, released the following statement in response to the President’s announcement of his new policy relative to the war in Aghanistan. President Obama has inherited many difficult problems from the Bush Administration, but none greater than the issue of Afghanistan. While I respect the painstaking consideration the President has given to this matter over the past weeks, I have grave reservations about the course to which he has committed our nation and our troops: • Afghanistan has been involved in a violent Civil War since the mid-1970s. We have injected ourselves into this war by propping up one of its participants-the Karzai government. The Pashtuns fight and kill our troops because they view the U.S. presence as a partner of the Karzai government and as an occupier. • The U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, Karl Eikenberry, Lt. General, Retired, has been very clear that the Karzai government cannot be relied on for our efforts. They are a corrupt and unreliable partner. Any counterinsurgency effort requires a strong partner and the Karzai government is neither strong nor trusted by its own people. • The opium trade in Afghanistan is the primary cash crop for an impoverished nation and has lead to enormous corruption, including the Karzai family. • While the U.S. commits more troops to fight and possibly die for the Karzai regime, the international community has not increased their commitment. Instead, U.S. soldiers, their families, and the American taxpayer are bearing the enormous burdens and the huge sacrifices being made. • While Al Qaeda does have presence in Afghanistan, it is limited to approximately 100 to 300 total. There are considerably more in Yemen, Somalia, and other failed states. Why 100,000 American troops to face down such a small number? Afghanistan is the Graveyard of Nations. A thousand years of history instructs us what happens to those who attempt to occupy this land. I have not heard anything that explains how the U.S. will succeed in turning the weight of this history on its head. For these reasons and others, I do not support the surge in troops to Afghanistan. ###
11.19.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill to End Loud TV Ads Passes Key House Committee November 19th, 2009 November 19, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Blaring television advertisements took another step toward extinction today when the House Energy and Commerce Committee passed H.R. 1084, the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, by a voice vote. The bill will prevent television advertisements from playing at a volume noticeably above the programs during which they air. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) sponsored the bipartisan bill and shepherded it through the Committee. The legislation will now move to the floor for consideration of the full House. “In my 17 years in the House of Representatives, I’ve never carried a bill which has been received with so much enthusiasm,” Rep. Eshoo reflected after the vote. “Only the ‘Do Not Call List’ has even come close.” The current official FCC policy recommends that consumers “mute” commercials if they find them excessively strident. Under the CALM Act, advertisers will have one year to adopt industry technology which modulates sound levels and prevent overly loud commercials. “This problem has been discussed for decades, but never properly addressed–not by the FCC, and certainly not by licensees who have the obligation to protect the public interest. This legislation gives the control of sound back to consumers where it belongs,” declared Rep. Eshoo. “This is an easy fix for a tremendous nuisance.” Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI) is poised to introduce similar legislation in the Senate. ###
11.19.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Help Doctors Who Treat Medicare Patients November 19th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to stabilize Medicare and prevent an imminent cut of 21% in payments to doctors, scheduled to take place in January. Unlike short-term patches to prevent reimbursement cuts to Medicare which Congress has traditionally passed, H.R. 3961, the Medicare Physician Payment Reform Act of 2009, will permanently reform physician payments in Medicare to ensure Medicare beneficiaries have access to the care they need. “This bill is for the doctors who treat Medicare patients. It is our responsibility to reimburse doctors adequately for their services,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With an aging baby-boomer population, more Americans will soon be on Medicare and we must ensure enough physicians are willing and able to care for them.” The bill repeals the current Medicare Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) formula and replaces it with a sustainable solution that ends the cycle of threats of ever-larger fee cuts and short-term patches. It updates how doctors are paid through Medicare, beginning in 2010, and implements fairer growth targets which will keep doctors’ pay steady. “With comprehensive healthcare reform on the horizon, it’s our responsibility to ensure physicians are reimbursed appropriately and seniors receive the care they need and expect,” Rep. Eshoo said. “I’ve heard from countless doctors in my District about how important this fix is. Doctors should not be expected to guess, year after year, how much Medicare will reimburse them for their services. This has led to too many seniors without a physician, which is untenable.” H.R. 3961 is supported by a range of organizations representing patients and doctors, including the Santa Cruz County Medical Society, the Santa Clara County Medical Association, the San Mateo County Medical Association, the American Medical Association, AARP, and the American College of Physicians. H.R. 3961 passed the House by a vote of 243-183. ###
11.07.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo: “We are Keeping Our Promise to the American People” November 7th, 2009 Before the vote on passage of healthcare reform, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: “Madame Speaker, I come to the floor today to cast one of the most important votes of my congressional career–a vote in support of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. “We are on the threshold of history that has been almost a century in the making. “The promise of America as a land of equality and opportunity that embraces and cares for all of its citizens is but an empty promise without the guarantee of healthcare and the freedom from financial devastation resulting from illness. “For so many of us, this long battle has had a singular, courageous champion who has fought like a lion for the sick, the elderly, the left behind and the left out. Our great achievement today will also be our greatest memorial to our friend, mentor and inspiration, Senator Edward Kennedy. “Like Senator Kennedy, many of us wondered – as the decades marched by – whether our efforts for comprehensive healthcare reform would ever be successful. “His unwavering commitment to decent healthcare for all Americans has paved the way for the bill before us today. It is on the shoulders of this giant that we stand and I pledge my vote as a tribute to the late Senator. “At the heart of this legislation is one simple, indisputable idea: Everyone deserves health insurance they can afford. “Our system is broken. In a nation where health is a daily value and where health care is the finest in the world, I hear daily from constituents who cannot afford to take care of themselves or their families, who are driven out of the system by skyrocketing premiums, who live under the threat of a shuttered business or a bankrupted household, or who simply have to roll the dice and hope they will get better – or not too much worse. “Perhaps most tragically, our current system turns its back on those most in need – those with a pre-existing condition. Health insurance is meaningless if it’s only available to the healthy. “H.R. 3926 will cover 96 percent of all Americans. “It prohibits discrimination based on pre-existing conditions. “It eliminates lifetime caps-immediately. “It includes a non-profit public insurance option designed to increase competition and lower prices. “It provides affordability credits to lower-income Americans to help them pay for coverage. “It modernizes and strengthens Medicare, ensuring the program’s continued solvency and eliminating the prescription “donut-hole.” “And, very importantly, it is budget neutral. “When I return to my constituents in California, I’ll be proud to tell them that with this bill: Employer-based health coverage will improve for 461,000 men, women and children who live in my District 84,000 households in my District will receive affordability credits to help them pay for coverage they otherwise couldn’t afford 9,500 of the seniors in my District will no longer fall victim to the prescription drug “donut-hole” 17,100 small businesses in my District will be able to obtain affordable healthcare coverage And that 15,400 people will qualify for tax credits that will help reduce their health insurance costs. “I’m also proud that I joined with Senator Kennedy to author an amendment to H.R. 3962, to create an FDA pathway for the approval of biosimilar drugs. “Biotechnology is a complex and emerging field that can harness the power to cure cancer, AIDS, and diabetes, and prevent the onset of deadly and debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer’s, heart disease, Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis and arthritis. “My amendment will save the government $6 billion over the next ten years while continuing to foster innovation and new advancements. “After President Obama signs this bill, millions of Americans who today have no health insurance will have it. Patients who are now denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition will no longer be shut out of the system. Millions more seniors will be able to afford their medications, and the average American family will pay less for their health coverage. “Most importantly, we will be keeping our promise to the American people that they will have affordable health insurance which they cannot lose or have taken away from them if they become ill. “I look forward to passing this landmark piece of legislation and seeing it signed into law by the President.” ###
10.29.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo: “We Stand On the Threshold of Achieving an Extraordinary Goal” October 29th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – At a ceremony on the West Front of the Capitol, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi unveiled H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act, health insurance reform legislation which the House is expected to vote on next week. If passed, the bill-which blends the legislation passed by three House Committees-will ensure that 96% of Americans receive quality, affordable insurance, while reducing the federal deficit by at least $30 billion over ten years. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), who helped shape and move this legislation as a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement: “Ever since President Teddy Roosevelt called for healthcare reform in 1912, both Democratic and Republican Presidents have strived to enact reform. Today, this Congress stands on the threshold of achieving this extraordinary goal. I welcome this historic moment and I am privileged to be a part of it. “The Affordable Health Care for America Act will allow every American affordable access to healthcare through the creation of a competitive marketplace and a strong public option. It contains simple solutions to shore up holes in our current system, such as phasing out the “donut hole” in the Medicare Part D drug benefit and allowing young people to remain covered under their parents’ plans until they are 27 years old. “The bill protects consumers from the excesses of private insurers, ending discrimination based on pre-existing conditions, finally allowing coverage to those who need it most. It repeals the antitrust exemption so that companies are no longer shielded from liability for fixing prices, dividing up territories, or monopolizing the market, and it bans the practice of insurers dropping patients who they deem to be too sick or expensive. “While our work is not yet complete, we have taken another critical step in this effort. I look forward to casting my vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to pass this historic healthcare reform legislation.” ###
10.29.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Strengthen Small Businesses and Create Jobs October 29th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to generate and save more than a million American jobs through H.R. 3854, the Small Business Financing and Investment Act. The bill, which passed the House 389-32 , enhances lending opportunities for small businesses, the source of 60-80% of new jobs every year, and will help open tight credit markets which have been particularly hostile to such businesses during the economic downturn. “As we work to emerge from this recession, it is essential that we support our small businesses, the backbone of our country’s jobs and economy, and its greatest source of innovation,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This legislation will give these businesses the lending they require to thrive.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act has already supported $9 billion in new small business lending since its passage. H.R. 3854 overhauls the Small Business Administration’s capital access programs, extending key provisions in the Recovery Act, and will support an estimated $44 billion a year in lending and investment for smaller firms. It also increases available loan sizes, encourages local banks to lend to small businesses, and expands the Small Business Administration’s ability to facilitate loans. “The 14th Congressional District is famous for its innovative small businesses. The products they create and manufacture have literally changed the world. The loans offered in this bill will help ensure that these businesses, and others like them, remain viable and that our District remains a well-spring of innovation. I’m proud to support H.R. 3854.” ###
10.26.2009	+ SHARE Telephone Town Hall Postponed Due to Fire October 26th, 2009 Telephone Town Hall Postponed Due to Fire Washington, D.C. – Due to the fire in the Santa Cruz Mountains, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced the postponement of tonight’s Telephone Town Hall meeting, scheduled for Santa Cruz County. The call will be rescheduled once the fire has been contained. Wednesday’s Telephone Town Hall for the coast side of San Mateo County will continue as scheduled. Constituents seeking more information about upcoming Telephone Town Halls, can check the Congresswoman’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call her District Office at (650) 323-2984 or (408) 245-2339. ###
10.21.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo’s Opening Statement on Congressional Notification Of Intelligence Activities October 21st, 2009 Washington, D.C.–Representative Anna G. Eshoo, Chair of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, gave the following opening statement at the Subcommittee’s hearing on Congressional Notification of Intelligence Activities: Today’s hearing examines the provisions in the National Security Act of 1947 that establish how the President keeps Congress informed of intelligence activities. It is part of the full Committee’s investigation into whether the Intelligence Community has met its obligation to keep Congress “fully and currently” informed of intelligence activities. The obligation is a solemn one. Intelligence activities necessarily take place in secret, the details known only to those who execute and plan them. They are not subject to the scrutiny of public debate, competing interest groups, or taxpayers. The only people outside the Executive Branch who may examine these activities are the members of the congressional intelligence committees. We act as the stewards of the public’s trust; a check on a system that sometimes acts without the benefit of independent perspectives. Congress cannot fulfill its constitutional role without access to information. Congress has a duty to learn – and the Executive Branch has a duty to share – the information necessary for Congress to authorize, appropriate funds, and oversee the activities of the federal government, including intelligence activities. The manner in which the branches have shared information has evolved in the decades since World War II. From 1947 until the mid-seventies, the Intelligence Community briefed Congress primarily through informal meetings with a handful of senior committee chairmen. The Church and Pike Commissions helped usher in reforms that led to the creation of the intelligence committees and required that the President report to Congress when initiating a covert action. The Iran-Contra affair and revelations about other U.S. government activities in Latin American spurred Congress to create the current standard in 1991 – that the President must keep Congress “fully and currently informed” of all “significant” and “significant anticipated” intelligence activities. But even this statutory regime is flawed. Members of this committee have been repeatedly frustrated by the lack of prompt, thorough notification of intelligence activities. Public revelations of intelligence activities after 2001 have also raised serious questions about the commitment of the Executive Branch to meeting not just the letter of the law, but its intent. Some have argued that there is no obligation to notify Congress if an activity is not “operational”, a term not found in the statute. There have been disputes about what “significant” means in this context. We need to understand why there are no penalties in the National Security Act itself, and what Congress’ remedies are if the Executive Branch does not comply with its obligations to keep Congress informed. Our witnesses today are Mr. L. Britt Snider, former Inspector General at the Central Intelligence Agency; Mr. Fritz A.O. Schwartz, former Chief Counsel of the Senate Select Committee to Study Governmental Operations with Respect to Intelligence Activities; and Mr. David E. Munson, a private citizen from Standish, Michigan. I hope our witnesses can help us answer these questions and gain a deeper understanding of Congress’ oversight role, the history of Congress and the intelligence agencies, and the meaning of the statute. ###
10.15.2009	+ SHARE Water Recycling Program Passes House October 15th, 2009 Water Recycling Program Passes House Washington, D.C. – The U.S. House of Representatives voted today to supplement California’s drought-stricken water supply with an additional 2.6 billion gallons of water per year. H.R. 2442, the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program Expansion Act of 2009, authorizes new projects which will improve supply for the San Francisco Bay and Sacramento/San Joaquin Delta system, the largest estuary on the west coast of North America and the source of water for two-thirds of California. “Water is a precious and limited resource, especially in California. This bill expands our shrinking water supply, adds jobs, and protects our environment,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), a cosponsor of the bill since its inception. “Every drop of water that we can recycle, is a drop we don’t drain from our supply.” Established by Congress in 1992 and completed in 1999, the Bay Area Recycled Water Master Plan identified 33 Bay Area projects with the potential to create over 40 billion gallons of water per year by 2010. Thus far, only seven projects have been authorized, which create about 4 billion gallons. H.R. 2442 would expand two of these projects and authorize another six, adding 2.6 billion gallons of recycled water per year to the region. Peter Drekmeier, Mayor of Palo Alto commended the bill’s passage: “Recycled water will play a major role in helping the state meet its future water needs. H.R. 2442 is a key component of a long-term sustainable solution to California’s ongoing water demand issues. It will help Palo Alto complete our recycled water project and expand the regional recycled water system into our neighboring communities. We are grateful to Congresswoman Eshoo for her support of this legislation.” California currently faces its fourth year of drought which has idled hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland, intensified joblessness, encouraged wildfires, and cost Californians hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. “Declining water supplies are impacting communities around the state and across the country. H.R. 2442 and other bills like it are essential for creating a sustainable future in California and serve as excellent models for the rest of America. Not only does this legislation bolster our water supply in sustainable fashion, it also creates new green jobs around the Bay Area,” said Rep. Eshoo. The projects funded in H.R. 2442 are estimated to support over 3,500 Bay Area jobs. The Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program Expansion Act includes funding for the following projects in the 14th Congressional District: $8.25 million for the Palo Alto Recycled Water Pipeline Project This project will construct pipeline, pump stations, and laterals to over 90 user sites, delivering 325 million gallons of recycled water each year, resulting in a gallon for gallon reduction of consumption of Bay Area potable water supplies. $8 million for the Central Redwood City Recycled Water Project This project will reduce the City’s demand on the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission’s Hetch Hetchy water supply system by about 326,000 gallons per year. “With Representative Eshoo’s help, the passage of H.R. 2442 is a milestone in ensuring the future of our critical water supply in the Bay Area. This enables Redwood City to save an additional 350 million gallons of fresh water annually by expanding our recycled water program, and those savings will be greatly magnified in other projects throughout the Bay Area,” said Rosanne Foust, Mayor of Redwood City. H.R. 2442 passed the House by a vote of 241-173. ###
10.08.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo’s Bill to Prevent Loud TV Ads Passes Subcommittee October 8th, 2009 Eshoo’s Bill to Prevent Loud TV Ads Passes Subcommittee Washington, D.C. – Legislation regulating the volume of commercial advertisements cleared its first hurtle today on its way toward passage in the U.S. House of Representatives. H.R. 1084, the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation (CALM) Act, passed out of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet by a voice vote and will face full committee consideration. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), the sponsor of the bill, issued the following statement: “I’m pleased by the Subcommittee’s overwhelming support and its recognition of this problem and I’m gratified by the bill’s passage. The problem of loud commercials is not new. It has bothered consumers and endangered their hearing for decades. Under the CALM Act, consumers will control the sound and no one else will be able to take that control from them. As the chief sponsor and as a consumer, I look forward to the day this bill becomes law.” During the mark-up Rep. Eshoo also submitted an amendment to the CALM Act which directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to adopt technology standards developed by the Advanced Television Systems Committee to solve the volume issue. It also provides a one year grace period for providers to comply once the law passes and allows the FCC to grant hardship waivers for up to two years. Rep. Eshoo said, “These changes strengthen the bill and allow small stations and operators ample time to comply with the law. There will not be an open-ended waiver process that drags on for several years. Consumers have waited long enough for this simple but critical change to take place.” ###
10.08.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Healthcare and Housing for Service Members October 8th, 2009 Rep. Eshoo Votes for Healthcare and Housing for Service Members Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted for two key measures for service members and veterans. H.R. 1016, the Veterans Health Care Budget Reform and Transparency Act, speeds the delivery of funding for veterans health care and H.R. 3590, the Service Members Home Ownership Tax Act, assists service members looking to buy or sell their homes and extends home-buying incentives. These measures continue a record of benefits to veterans and troops in the Democratic-led Congress which, over the last two and a half years, has passed a new G.I. Bill, expanded economic opportunities for returning soldiers, and improved veterans hospitals, facilities, and care for PTSD. “Our troops and veterans require access to the best healthcare we can provide,” Rep. Eshoo said. H.R.1016 requires the President to request and authorizes Congress to approve funds a year in advance for investments in the Department of Veteran Affairs medical care system. This will ensure timely and predictable funding, and allow the VA to plan the best way to deliver care to veterans. “We also need to recognize the hardships that deployment has on our service members looking to own a home. They require increased flexibility simply to enjoy the same chance as every other American to become a home-owner.” H.R.3590 extends the first-time homebuyer credit for one year to service members, so that those stationed overseas can take advantage of the credit. It also ensures that service members will not have to repay this credit should they be forced to sell their homes due to deployment, within three years of buying. Both bills have been top priorities for numerous veterans service organizations, including the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars. H.R. 1016 passed the House by a vote of 409-1 and H.R. 3590 by a vote of 416-0. ###
10.06.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Releases Hangar One Letter from the Navy October 6th, 2009 Rep. Eshoo Releases Hangar One Letter from the Navy Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement along with the Secretary of the Navy’s letter of October 2nd, regarding the fate of Hangar One at Moffett Field. Secretary Ray Mabus wrote to Rep. Eshoo in response to their phone conversations and her letter of September 22nd, when she requested his commitment to hold off on de-skinning Hangar One until a plan is in place to re-skin the structure. “I’m extremely pleased with the Secretary’s letter. Our conversations have been very productive and I’m pleased that he is committed to a remediation plan that supports future plans for Hangar One. “It is clear that the Secretary will not allow any siding to come down until the Office of Management and Budget has issued a decision. The Secretary’s leadership is essential as we work toward a full resolution which must honor my constituents and the history of Hangar One.” ### To view a copy of Secretary Mabus’ letter, click here .
10.06.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Applauds California PUC Broadband Grant October 6th, 2009 Rep. Eshoo Applauds California PUC Broadband Grant Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) praised the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) today for its swift work in awarding mapping grants under the State Broadband Data and Development Grant Program. California is one of four states selected for these grants and will receive $1.8 million to create and maintain data that shows current broadband availability throughout the state. Rep. Eshoo was instrumental in securing stimulus funds for this and other NTIA broadband development programs under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “I’m highly pleased that NTIA developed the grant process in record time and is working hard to get these grants out to qualified applicants. Mapping is an essential part of nationwide broadband planning. It will help us determine our weak and strong links and ensure accessibility for all Americans. I’m especially proud that California is one of the first of four states to receive its grant.” ###
10.02.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo in Recognition of Filipino American Heritage Month October 2nd, 2009 Rep. Eshoo in Recognition of Filipino American History Month Washington, D.C. – In honor of Filipino American History Month, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) released the following statement. “October is the time we celebrate Filipino History Month and it is an honor to recognize the over 16,000 residents of my Congressional District who are of Filipino descent. Filipino Americans have made many great contributions to the 14th Congressional District and it is fitting to acknowledge their long and continuing service to my District, the State of California and our entire nation.” “I would like to especially recognize those in the Filipino American community who quickly organized their support to send supplies and donations to those who have been affected by Typhoon “Ondoy.” This recent tragic event brought a month of rainfall to Metro Manila and nearby areas in just a few hours, causing severe flooding which resulted in the loss of many lives and the displacement of over 2 million people. I stand with the community and send my prayers and support for aid to help the people of the Philippines.” ###
10.01.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Invest in Critical Science, Research, and Renewable Energy Programs October 1st, 2009 Washington, D.C.-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to invest in critical science, research, and renewable energy programs. The FY2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act funds projects which speed the development of cleaner, more efficient energy and vehicle technology, upgrade the nation’s aging water infrastructure, and invest in scientific research which is crucial to America’s long-term energy needs. The legislation includes over $10 million in funding that will directly benefit the 14th Congressional District including: $179,000 for the San Francisquito Creek flood protection project; $1.2 million for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Project; $6.4 million for dredging the Redwood City Harbor; $90,000 to study the depth of maximum operational efficiency for the Redwood City Harbor Channel; and $2.8 million for the San Francisco Shoreline. “These projects, and others like them, will rejuvenate our infrastructure and economy, both here in Silicon Valley and on a national level,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We have made historic investments to create a smarter, more reliable national electricity grid, switch to cleaner, more efficient energy consumption, and tackle our growing water infrastructure dilemmas. And, we’ve structured these investments in a fiscally responsible way.” The House appropriations bills save $10 billion from the President’s proposed budget. “The bill also continues to provide millions of dollars for projects in the 14th Congressional District which will help with the ongoing flood protection and water conservation efforts in Silicon Valley.” The FY 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act includes funding for the following five projects in the 14th Congressional District: $179,000 for the San Francisquito Creek to be used to complete a feasibility study of critical flood protection measures for the cities of Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, Menlo Park, and portions of San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. The project will provide flood protection to three important Bay Area and state highway connector systems, a regional commuter rail system and a local airport. $1,215,000 for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program. The funding for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program will be used to construct pipeline and related conveyance facilities to develop and expand the use of recycled water to augment surface water supplies, helping to preserve overdrawn river and groundwater supplies, protect the environment, and improve the overall security and reliability of the Bay Area’s urban water systems. $6,410,000 for the Port of Redwood City to dredge the Redwood City Navigation Channel to its authorized depth of 30 feet. The dredging is necessary in order to preserve the commercial activity that passes daily through the Port of Redwood City, the only port that serves the many industries in Silicon Valley. $90,000 for the Port of Redwood City to continue the Feasibility Study to determine the proper depth for Redwood City Navigation Channel to maximize operational efficiency of for larger vessels now transiting the Channel. $2,800,000 for the San Francisco Shoreline to allow the Army Corps of Engineers to make satisfactory progress on completion of the Feasibility Report as directed by the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. The project generated from the Shoreline Study is expected to provide tidal and fluvial flood protection for Silicon Valley, including approximately 42,800 acres, 7,400 homes and businesses, and major highways, parks and airports. ###
09.25.2009	+ SHARE Congresswoman Eshoo Lauds CIA Attention to Global Climate Change September 25th, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-California) today issued the following statement in response to the announcement that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) will establish a Center on Climate Change and National Security: “In my years as a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, I have long urged the leadership of the Intelligence Community to give serious attention to the threats posed by climate change. At our insistence and that of the Senate Intelligence Committee, last year the CIA restarted its climate change program which had been shut down since the 1990’s. “As a result of legislation I introduced with Senator Feinstein, last year the Intelligence Community issued a National Intelligence Assessment in 2008 on the national security implications of global climate change. In June 2008, Select Committee on Global Warming Chairman Ed Markey and I held an open hearing on this Assessment. Witnesses warned of the impact that droughts, floods and large refugee migrations would have on the stability of countries and border conflicts. As I said that day, the words ‘climate change’ should always be linked with ‘national and international security.’ “Early in 2007, eleven retired U.S. Generals and Admirals issued a report stating, “The national security consequences of climate change should be fully integrated into national security and national defense strategies.” CIA analysts will now have a mandate to produce analysis and warning to enable policymakers to integrate such factors into their planning. “I welcome the creation of the CIA Center on Climate Change and National Security which will partner with the academic and scientific communities to support policymakers in dealing with the many complex challenges we face as a result of global climate change. “I salute Director Panetta for his leadership in establishing this critically important Center.” ###
09.22.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Extend Emergency Unemployment Benefits September 22nd, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to extend emergency unemployment benefits to 300,000 jobless workers slated to lose their benefits at the end of September. The bill, H.R.3548, the Unemployment Compensation Extension Act of 2009, passed the House by a vote of 331-83. “As we begin to emerge from this recession, we cannot leave behind those who are experiencing the worst of its effects,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will help workers and families-people who’ve lost their jobs through no fault of their own-maintain their homes, keep their children in school, and continue to afford basic necessities as they look for work.” Over 6.9 million jobs have been shed since the beginning of the recession in 2007, and, while the pace of job loss has slowed dramatically as the economy recovers, there are now over six unemployed workers for every available job opening. In Silicon Valley, the unemployment rate hit 11.8% in July, well above the national rate of 9.7%. The Congressional Budget Office has found that unemployment benefits are one of the most cost-efficient and fastest-acting forms of economic stimulus. Moody’s Economy.com estimates that every dollar of unemployment benefits provides $1.64 in economic stimulus. ###
09.21.2009	+ SHARE Representative Eshoo Lauds FCC Decision to Move Ahead on Net Neutrality September 21st, 2009 WASHINGTON – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo(D-CA), co-author of legislation that would establish a national broadband policy and ensure an open and consumer-oriented Internet, today commended FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski’s announcement of a plan to establish new rules guaranteeing network neutrality. Eshoo, who represents Silicon Valley, has a long history of support for open networks and was one of the first House members to introduce net neutrality legislation in the House. “I am heartened that Chairman Genachowski is moving ahead expeditiously to put the FCC on the right track,” Eshoo said. “We’ve waited too long for the Commission to recognize the critical importance of keeping the internet free and open, to protect consumers and continue to spur innovation and growth.” Genachowski’s statement mirrors legislation introduced on July 31, 2009 by Reps. Eshoo and Edward Markey (D-MA), the Internet Freedom Preservation Act. The proposed legislation is designed to assess and promote Internet freedom for consumers and content providers. Last week, Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (D-CA) joined as a cosponsor of the bill. The FCC currently has no rules that address network neutrality and instead follows an unenforceable set of policy objectives: Network operators cannot prevent users from accessing the lawful Internet content, applications, and services of their choice, nor can they prohibit users from attaching non-harmful devices to the network. The FCC Chairman plans to introduce a formal “Notice of Proposed Rulemaking” that would draw in comments from industry and consumer groups. “I look forward to a transparent and fast-track process and I expect that we’ll have rules as soon as possible,” Eshoo noted. ###
09.17.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Weighs in on Hangar One with OMB September 17th, 2009 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement in light of her recent letter to White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Director Peter Orszag. Rep. Eshoo wrote to Dr. Orszag on September 17th thanking him for agreeing to take on the critical issues surrounding the historic Hangar One at former Naval Air Station, Moffett Field. “I am highly hopeful that Dr. Orszag and his team will see the merits of preserving this historic building. The consensus is clear. Hangar One is a national jewel and its historical significance is immeasurable. I look forward to a positive outcome following next week’s meeting.” ###
09.17.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Historic Student Aid Legislation September 17th, 2009 Washington, DC – Today Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted for and the House of Representatives passed H.R.3221, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, which is the largest single increase ever made to student aid funding. “This is not just important legislation, it’s historic,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill renews our commitment to our children and their education by easing the cost of college for students and their families, lowering the debt of graduates, and strengthening our community colleges and early learning programs.” H.R.3221 increases funding for a variety of scholarships and student loans, including the Pell Grant scholarship and the Perkins Loan program, and updates the method by which loans are administered. It will lower the interest rates on need-based loans and convert all new student loans, starting in July 2010, to the cost-efficient Direct Loan program which is not affected by changes in the financial markets. The bill also encourages expanded educational opportunities by supporting community colleges, workforce programs, online training, and adult education. The bill also complies with the House “PAYGO” requirement, a provision in the House Rules which stipulates that the legislation passed by the House must not increase the federal deficit. H.R.3221 actually exceeds this requirement and will reduce entitlement spending by $10 billion. The bill passed the House by a vote of 253-171. Congresswoman Eshoo has been a cosponsor of the bill since its inception. ###
09.16.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo a “Champion of Science” September 16th, 2009 WASHINGTON, DC – In honor of her work on behalf of scientific research and innovation, the Science Coalition presented Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) with its Champion of Science Award earlier today. The award, given to select policymakers for their support of “scientific discovery, technological innovation, and economic growth” through investment in university-based research, places the Congresswoman in the company of notable past recipients such as Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and the late Senator Kennedy. “Congresswoman Eshoo has been a strong ally in the effort to invest in the research and development needed to secure America’s energy future,” said the Director of Stanford’s SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory, Dr. Persis Drell. Rep. Eshoo has advocated for strong federal funding of scientific research as a Senior Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and throughout her nine terms in Congress. In 2005, she worked with Speaker Pelosi to develop the House Democratic Innovation Agenda, which pledged to increase investments in research and development and to improve quality and opportunities for education in science and mathematics. In early 2009, Congresswoman Eshoo successfully fought to ensure that such funding was a key element of the landmark American Recovery and Reinvestment Act when she led a letter signed by House Members instructing the Conference Committee to preserve the robust research funding in the final bill. “I’m proud to stand for Science and to stand with the Science Coalition and receive this award,” Rep. Eshoo said. “When we invest in science, we invest in our future.” The Science Coalition is a non-profit, non-partisan organization comprised of 50 of the nation’s top research universities, including the University of California system, Stanford, and the Ivy League schools. ###
08.27.2009	+ SHARE Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo Statement on Death of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy August 27th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement on the passing of Sen. Edward M. Kennedy: “Last night, the nation lost a great patriot and I lost a dear friend. Senator Kennedy inspired me to serve in public office, and his wise counsel and steadfast support has sustained me throughout my public and personal life. “His courage through tragedy and record of legislative accomplishments is unsurpassed in modern American history. I join my constituents and people around the world in remembering him and praying for his beloved family.” ###
08.25.2009	+ SHARE Congresswoman Anna Eshoo Announces Community Meeting Schedule for Constituents August 25th, 2009 Wednesday 26 August 7:00 – 8:30 p.m. Congresswoman Eshoo Moderates Panel on High Speed Rail Location: Menlo Park City Council Chambers 701 Laurel Street Menlo Park (Note: this was rescheduled from July due to conflict with House Vote Schedule. Doors open at 6 p.m. This is not a meeting on Health Care) Thursday 27 August 1:00 – 2:30 p.m. Health Care Telephone Town Hall Meeting for Senior Citizens Sign up by 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, August 26th on Rep. Eshoo’s Website at https://eshoo.house.gov 6:40 – 7:40 p.m. Health Care Telephone Town Hall Meeting for Sunnyvale/Santa Clara County Sign up by 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, August 26th on Rep. Eshoo’s Website at https://eshoo.house.gov Wednesday 2 September 7:00 – 8:30 p.m. Health Care Town Hall Meeting Location: Gunn High School, Spangenberg Theatre 780 Arastradero Road Palo Alto Thursday 3 September 7:00 – 8:30 p.m. Health Care Town Hall Meeting Location: Highlands Park Senior Center 8500 Highway 9, Highlands Park Ben Lomond ###
08.20.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Hosts Telephone Town Hall for San Mateo County Constituents August 20th, 2009 Last night, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) hosted the first of a series of Healthcare Telephone Town Halls for her constituents in the 14th Congressional District. Last night’s Town Hall included constituents from the communities of Atherton, Belmont, East Palo Alto, El Granada, Half Moon Bay, Menlo Park, Pescadero, Portola Valley, Redwood City, and Woodside in San Mateo County. During the hour-long call, Congresswoman Eshoo answered questions from constituents covering a range of issues such as private insurers dropping patients because of pre-existing conditions, the impact of proposed legislation on small businesses, a discussion about the public option, and whether the proposed bill would add to the National Debt. A total of 7,040 people participated in the Town Hall meeting. Last night’s call was the first in a series of Town Hall meetings, with additional Telephone Town Halls scheduled for Monday, August 24th at 6:40 pm and Thursday, August 27th at 1:00 pm and 6:40 pm. Congresswoman Eshoo plans to have Town Hall meetings in every community of her Congressional District before Congress reconvenes in September. To hear a webcast of last night’s Town Hall meeting, go to https://eshoo.house.gov/images/stories/Town_Hall/2009.08.19.wav For further information about the Telephone Town Halls, visit Congresswoman Eshoo’s website at www.eshoo.house.gov .
08.19.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo to Host Telephone Town Hall Meetings on Healthcare Reform August 19th, 2009 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) will hold Telephone Town Hall Meetings on health care reform on Wednesday, August 19th at 6:40pm. Additional Telephone Town Halls are scheduled for Monday evening at 6:40 pm, Thursday afternoon at 1:00 pm, and Thursday evening at 6:40 pm. Congresswoman Eshoo plans to have Town Hall meetings in every community of her Congressional District before Congress reconvenes in September. To participate in the telephone town hall, constituents must visit https://forms.house.gov/eshoo/webforms/issue_subscribe.htm and choose “Telephone Town Hall” from the Issues drop down box. Constituents who have signed up via https://eshoo.house.gov will receive a call when the Telephone Town Hall Meeting begins. For more information, please visit Rep. Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call her District Office at (650) 323-2984, (831) 335-2020 or (408) 245-2339. ###
08.04.2009	+ SHARE SLAC Receives $21.8 Million in Economic Recovery Funding August 4th, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after the Department of Energy (DOE) announced $21.8 million in funding for the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC.) The funding, which was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will go toward improvements at the Stanford Synchrotron Radiation Light Source and for an experimental end station at the Linac Coherent Light Source to study high energy density plasmas. “I’m excited that SLAC is receiving this significant funding from the Department of Energy. SLAC has always been at the forefront of research and science. These targeted resources will create jobs and further SLAC’s important research in energy and material science using high-intensity light sources.” This is the third and final round of American Recovery and Reinvestment Act funding for scientific research, instrumentation, and laboratory infrastructure projects. The Administration has now approved projects, including $98.1 million for SLAC, that cover the full $1.6 billion that the DOE Office of Science received from Congress under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. ###
08.01.2009	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo and Markey Introduce Bill to Preserve Free and Open Internet August 1st, 2009 Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Edward J. Markey (D-MA) introduced a bill today that will establish overarching national broadband policy and ensures an open and consumer oriented Internet. “The Internet has thrived and revolutionized business and the economy precisely because it started as an open technology,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This bill will ensure that the non-discriminatory framework that allows the Internet to thrive and competition on the Web to flourish is preserved at a time when our economy needs it the most.” “The Internet is a success today because it was open to everyone with an idea,” said Rep. Markey. “That openness and freedom has been at risk since the Supreme Court decision in Brand X. This bill will protect consumers and content providers because it will restore the guarantee that one does not have to ask permission to innovate.” H.R. 3458, the Internet Freedom Preservation Act, is designed to assess and promote Internet freedom for consumers and content providers. The bill states that it is the policy of the United States to protect the right of consumers to access lawful content, run lawful applications, and use lawful services of their choice on the Internet while preserving and promoting the open and interconnected nature of broadband networks, enabling consumers to connect to such networks their choice of lawful devices, as long as such devices do not harm the network. The legislation also directs the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to promulgate several rules relating to enforcement and implementation of the legislation, including rules to ensure that providers of Internet access service fulfill the duties and disclose meaningful information to consumers about a provider’s Internet access service in clear, uniform, and conspicuous manner. H.R. 3458 makes clear that it does not prohibit an Internet access provider from engaging in reasonable network management consistent with the policies and duties of nondiscrimination and openness set forth in the bill, nor does the legislation affect any law or regulation addressing prohibited or unlawful activity, including any laws or regulations prohibiting theft of content. Rep. Markey introduced similar Internet freedom legislation in the 110th Congress, H.R. 5353, which Rep. Eshoo also co-sponsored. In the 109th Congress, Rep. Markey offered a net neutrality amendment to the COPE Act in May 2006. ###
08.01.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Rescheduled High Speed Rail Town Hall Meeting August 1st, 2009 On Wednesday, August 26th, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo will host a Town Hall Meeting to discuss High Speed Rail. Experts from the High Speed Rail Authority and Caltrain will make presentations and answer questions. In November, 2008, Californians passed Proposition 1A, the Safe, Reliable High-Speed Passenger Train Bond Act for the 21st Century. How this will impact local communities has been the subject of considerable debate. The meeting will be held at the Menlo Park City Council Chambers from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. If constituents are not able to attend, they can watch the Town Hall Meeting live via webcast at https://eshoo.house.gov . They can also submit questions for the panelists through AskAnna@mail.house.gov . The location is wheelchair accessible and parking is available. For more information, constituents can visit Rep. Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call her District Office at (650) 323-2984 or (408) 245-2339. High Speed Rail Town Hall Meeting Wednesday August 26th at 7:00 PM Menlo Park City Council Chambers 701 Laurel Street ###
08.01.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Hangar One August 1st, 2009 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement on the progress of discussions on Hangar One at former Naval Air Station Moffett Field. Rep. Eshoo wrote to Naval Secretary Ray Mabus on June 5th asking him to review Navy BRAC’s actions and halt plans until a review could take place. “After working with Secretary Mabus and his team over the past several weeks, it is clear to me that both the Secretary and Undersecretary understand the history and significance of Hangar One and are willing to examine new avenues to facilitate its restoration and re-use. Secretary Mabus has called for a delay of action for thirty days to determine a mutually acceptable solution for both NASA Ames and the City of Mountain View. “I’m grateful to the devoted advocates of Hangar One and the local governments for their continued support on this issue. I thank Secretary Mabus for agreeing to work with us and I’m eager to move forward with NASA and the Navy so that together, we will find the right solution.” ###
07.30.2009	+ SHARE House Passes Landmark Food Safety Bill July 30th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today voted in favor of a groundbreaking food safety law that will shore up safety standards and strengthen federal enforcement powers to prevent the spread of deadly food borne illnesses. Rep. Eshoo serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and took an active role in drafting the bill. “Too many people have been sickened by contaminated food sources and some have died,” Rep. Eshoo said. “This legislation will save lives and stop these outbreaks before they can cause permanent harm.” Rep Eshoo noted that in recent years thousands of Americans have been sickened by E. coli and salmonella outbreaks in common foods such as spinach and peanut butter. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 76 million people become ill and 5,000 die each year from tainted food. The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 will increase the food industry’s responsibility for monitoring the safety of its products and will create an up-to-date registry of all food facilities serving American customers. The bill gives the Food and Drug Administration new authority to issue mandatory recalls of tainted foods and increases penalties imposed on food facilities that fail to comply with safety requirements. The Senate must act to pass the legislation before the bill is sent to the President for his signature. “America needs to put in place a system that prevents contaminated food from entering our stores and homes,” Rep. Eshoo explained. “This legislation is the first step towards changing the food safety system so that we prevent food borne illness outbreaks instead of reacting to them.” The Food Safety Enhancement Act of 2009 passed the House by a vote of 283-142. ###
07.30.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces $700,000 for Projects in 14th Congressional District Programs July 30th, 2009 Washington, D.C- Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) announced that the 14th Congressional District will receive $700,000 for job retraining and education programs in the appropriations bill passed by the House today. The bill funds programs administered by the Departments of Education, Labor, and Health and Human Services. “These programs will have a significant impact on reducing unemployment in our District,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We’re targeting attention on the building blocks of full employment: training older workers for new green-based industries and providing early technological education for students.” Rep. Eshoo explained that the East Palo Alto Green Job Initiative will use $600,000 provided by the Department of Labor to develop a green jobs training program for unemployed residents. Eden Housing will receive $100,000 from Department of Education funds to expand their Digital Connector Program to East Palo Alto. This initiative gives technological training to low-income students living in Eden Housing complexes. “Silicon Valley’s unemployment rate is at a record high – 11.8 %,” Rep. Eshoo noted. “We must act now to ensure that displaced workers and students entering the workforce have access to the job training and educational tools they need to make them competitive in the rapidly growing renewable energy and technology industries.” The FY 2010 Labor, HHS, and Education Appropriations Act will make historic investments in community health centers, early childhood education, and Pell Grants for qualified high school students to attend college. The legislation also includes money for job training and placement initiatives. Rep. Eshoo released the following details about the two projects she worked to include in the FY 2010 Labor, HHS, and Education Appropriations Act: $600,000 for East Palo Alto through the Department of Labor to create a green jobs training program for unemployed residents. The program will train those that are unemployed to take on new green jobs. The unemployment rate in East Palo Alto is nearly double that of the rest of Santa Clara County. $100,000 for Eden Housing through the Department of Education to expand their Digital Connector Program to East Palo Alto. Eden Housing provides affordable housing units to low-income students. The Digital Connector Program trains low-income students who live in the Eden Housing complexes to prepare them for employment in the technology sector. ###
07.30.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Support Transportation and Affordable Housing Projects July 30th, 2009 Bill includes $1.9 million for projects in 14th Congressional District Washington, D.C- Rep. Anna G. Eshoo today voted for the FY2010 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act which funds critical maintenance projects for the nation’s airports, highways, passenger rail, and transportation systems. The bill also provides housing assistance to families facing foreclosure and invests in rental assistance for low-income families. The legislation includes $1.9 million for three projects in the 14th Congressional District: $1 million for Caltrain’s Collision Avoidance System Project; $700,000 for the Housing Trust of Santa Clara County; and $200,000 for the Half Moon Bay Library. “More people are relying on public transportation, straining a system that is already in need of serious repairs. This bill will upgrade existing local transit systems so they can serve our towns and communities safely,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The average family spends more than 50% of their income on housing and transportation. In the Bay Area these expenses often add up to over 60% of a family’s income. This bill invests in foreclosure prevention and affordable housing programs to keep families in their homes while we’re weathering one of the toughest economic storms in our nation’s history.” The FY2010 Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Appropriations Act includes funding for the following projects in the 14th Congressional District: $1,000,000 for Caltrain to fund the Collision Avoidance System Project. This project will create an integrated signal and communication system that will improve reliability and safety while responding to demand for expanded service along the U.S. 101 corridor. $700,000 for the Housing Trust of Santa Clara County to fund loans for first-time homebuyers in Santa Clara County. The Housing Trust’s cumulative investment of $14 million has already helped 2,039 families buy their first home. $200,000 for the Half Moon Bay Library. The library was constructed in 1971 to serve 3,500 people and by 2020 will be expected to serve over 36,000. The expansion will improve service points, new technologies, gathering areas for children, a space for teens to study, a family literacy center and a community meeting space. ###
07.23.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Postpones High Speed Rail Town Hall Meeting Due to Legislative Work in Washington DC July 23rd, 2009 ** Updated July 23, 2009** Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) received notice today that she must postpone the scheduled meeting in Menlo Park on Saturday, July 25th due to critical votes in Washington, D.C. As a Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee she must remain in Washington over the weekend to vote. Congresswoman Eshoo apologizes for any inconvenience the schedule change may cause and is committed to hosting a meeting in the near future with experts who can answer citizen questions on High Speed Rail. She will inform constituents as soon as possible of the new date and time. For more information, you can visit her website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call our District Office at (650) 323-2984 or (408) 245-2339. ###
07.23.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Restore Fiscal Responsibility July 23rd, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) voted for the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009 (PAYGO) to require Congress to offset dollars spent on legislation with dollars saved in other areas of the federal budget. “Our nation is enduring the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression and the American people are shouldering record deficits,” Rep. Eshoo said. “By passing the PAYGO bill today, we have taken a critical step to restore fiscal responsibility to the federal budget.” Congress passed similar PAYGO legislation during the 1990s which helped turn massive deficits into record surpluses. The Republican-controlled Congress allowed these rules to expire in 2002. The deficit for the current year is estimated to top $1.8 trillion, and the Congressional Budget Office projects unsustainable deficits over the coming decade. “Every dollar spent must be paired with a dollar saved,” Rep. Eshoo explained. “Unless we reduce the deficit, we will not be able to afford making investments in the critical areas of education, health care, innovation, and global climate change.” The Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009 requires Congress to pay for the costs of tax cuts or increases in entitlement spending with savings elsewhere in the budget. Congress maintains the ability to make exceptions for national emergencies. If the net effect of all legislation enacted during a session of Congress increases the deficit, there will be an across-the-board reduction in certain mandatory programs, known as a sequester. Programs that assist low-income Americans will be protected, as will Social Security, and the effect on Medicare will be limited. “Enacting this bill will reduce the massive deficits and prioritize investments in the programs and communities where they are needed most,” Rep. Eshoo noted. “Adhering to these rules now will ensure that future generations will not have to suffer because of the reckless ‘borrow-and-spend’ policies enacted under the Bush Administration.” The Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2009 passed the House by a vote of 265-156. ###
07.22.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Postpones High Speed Rail Town Hall Meeting Due to Legislative Work in Washington DC July 22nd, 2009 ** Updated July 23, 2009** Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) received notice today that she must postpone the scheduled meeting in Menlo Park on Saturday, July 25th due to critical votes in Washington, D.C. As a Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee she must remain in Washington over the weekend to vote. Congresswoman Eshoo apologizes for any inconvenience the schedule change may cause and is committed to hosting a meeting in the near future with experts who can answer citizen questions on High Speed Rail. She will inform constituents as soon as possible of the new date and time. For more information, you can visit her website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call our District Office at (650) 323-2984 or (408) 245-2339. ###
07.17.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Support Renewable Energy, Science, and Research Programs July 17th, 2009 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo today voted to invest in critical science, research, and renewable energy programs. The FY2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act funds projects which speed the development and deployment of energy efficient vehicles and alternative fuel vehicles, upgrade the nation’s aging water infrastructure, and invest in scientific research which is crucial to America’s long-term energy needs. The legislation includes nearly $10 million in funding that will directly benefit the 14th Congressional District including: $300,000 for the San Francisquito Creek flood protection project; $100,000 for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Project; $6.7 million for dredging the Redwood City Harbor; and $2.8 million for the San Francisco Shoreline. “This bill contains some of the highest funding priorities for Silicon Valley including funding for research, innovation, and science and it makes an historic investment in a clean and renewable energy future. These projects will dramatically improve our environment, our economy, and our security,” Rep. Eshoo said. “The bill also invests millions of dollars in shovel-ready projects in the 14th Congressional District which will help with the ongoing flood protection and water conservation efforts in Silicon Valley.” The FY 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act includes funding for the following four projects in the 14th Congressional District: $300,000 for the San Francisquito Creek to be used to complete a feasibility study of critical flood protection measures for the cities of Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, Menlo Park, and portions of San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. The project will provide flood protection to three important Bay Area and state highway connector systems, a regional commuter rail system and a local airport. $2,800,000 for the San Francisco Shoreline to allow the Army Corps of Engineers to make satisfactory progress on completion of the Feasibility Report as directed by the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. The project generated from the Shoreline Study is expected to provide tidal and fluvial flood protection for Silicon Valley, including approximately 42,800 acres, 7,400 homes and businesses, and major highways, parks and airports. $100,000 for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program. The funding for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program will be used to construct pipeline and related conveyance facilities to develop and expand the use of recycled water to augment surface water supplies, helping to preserve overdrawn river and groundwater supplies, protect the environment, and improve the overall security and reliability of the Bay Area’s urban water systems. $6,745,000 for the Port of Redwood City to dredge the Redwood City Navigation Channel to its authorized depth of 30 feet. The dredging is necessary in order to preserve the commercial activity that passes daily through the Port of Redwood City, the only port that serves the many industries in Silicon Valley. ###
07.14.2009	+ SHARE Congresswoman Eshoo Encourages Local Businesses to Apply for Broadband Funds July 14th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today encouraged local businesses and governments to apply for grants and loans aimed at bringing broadband to Americans lacking access to this critical infrastructure. The White House announced this week that $4 billion of the $7.2 billion provided in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for broadband programs will be available during the first-round application period. Eshoo helped draft this part of the Stimulus package and pushed hard for grants and loans that would spur funding for the next generation of high speed internet services. “The resources are now available to help underserved areas and to stimulate the economy,” Eshoo explained. “These programs work well when the best companies apply and many of these potential participants are right here in our district.” The Commerce Department’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service (RUS) will oversee the application process and coordinate efforts to assist and select potential awardees. States, nonprofits and municipalities may qualify for money under the State Broadband Data and Development Program. Commercial businesses and other entities may apply for funds under the Broadband Initiatives Program (BIP) or the Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP). Eshoo noted that the application process will be highly competitive and only those companies with “shovel-ready” programs should apply during the first round of the programs. Companies still developing programs and strategies will have more opportunities for participation during subsequent application rounds, she added. Local governments and non-profit organizations also are expected to face stiff competition for available funds. Potential applicants will find information online at http://www.broadbandusa.gov . The application process begins on July 14, 2009 and the deadline has been extended until August 21, 2009. The limited extension applies only to electronic applications that have been initiated as of 5pm EDT tomorrow (Friday, August 14, 2009). NTIA and RUS will conduct an “applicant workshop” on Friday, July 24, 2009, at the Omni Los Angeles Hotel at 251 S. Olive St. in Los Angeles. Government officials will provide workshops in nine cities in other parts of the nation prior to the first round application deadline. “My staff is ready to assist local businesses with concerns about the program,” Eshoo said. “We want to have as much local participation as possible. Given our region’s reputation for technological innovation, I believe our local businesses and governments will qualify for some of these grants and loans.” ###
07.10.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Hosts Briefing on Follow-on Biologics July 10th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – On Friday, June 10, 2009, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – CA) hosted a briefing on the cost of producing biologic drugs. At the briefing the National Venture Capital Association released a new study on cost and risks associated with biotech investment. Earlier this year, Rep. Eshoo introduced the Pathway for Biosimilars Act which ensures a process for approval of “biosimilars” or “follow-on biologics” while protecting patient health and safety, lowering health care costs, and providing adequate incentives for innovation. The bill currently has 124 bipartisan cosponsors. To see the study that was released at briefing, click here . To see the executive brief, click here .
07.09.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Releases Letter to CIA Dir. Panetta July 9th, 2009 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today released a letter sent to CIA Director Leon Panetta on June 26, 2009. To see a copy of the letter, click here .
07.08.2009	+ SHARE Op-Ed: H.R. 1548 better than alternatives on new drug class July 8th, 2009 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) wrote the following op-ed on the Pathway to Biosimilars Act, which she introduced earlier this year. To see the op-ed in today’s The Hill, click here.
06.26.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Historic Energy Legislation June 26th, 2009 Bill Will Spark a Clean Energy Transformation for the U.S. Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today voted for the American Clean Energy and Security Act, a bill that will move America toward a clean energy future. The legislation, which includes several provisions written by Rep. Eshoo, will enhance America’s energy independence and protect the environment, while saving consumers billions of dollars in energy costs. The bill passed by a vote of 219-212. “The nation is ready for us to act and today we will fulfill our duty and responsibility to our country by addressing our reliance on fossil fuels and how it jeopardizes our national security and our planet. The bill will move the U.S. into a global leadership position and create a new sector to our national economy … a clean energy sector … creating new jobs and new growth for American workers. It will spur new sources of energy – solar, wind, and geothermal – and it will spur new energy savings through new energy efficiency standards,” said Rep. Eshoo. The American Clean Energy and Security Act will save consumers hundreds of billions of dollars in energy costs, and cut global warming pollution 80% by 2050. The following are key provisions of the bill: Require electric utilities to meet 20% of their electricity demand through renewable energy resources and energy efficiency by 2020 Invest in new clean energy technologies and energy efficiency, including energy efficiency and renewable energy ($90 billion in new investments by 2025), carbon capture and sequestration ($60 billion), electric and other advanced technology vehicles ($20 billion), and basic scientific research and development ($20 billion) Mandate new energy-saving standards for buildings, appliances, and industry Protect consumers from energy price increases. According to estimates from the Environmental Protection Agency, the reductions in carbon pollution required by the legislation will cost American families less than a postage stamp per day The bill also includes several provisions written by Rep. Eshoo that spur the deployment of and develop the infrastructure for electric drive vehicles, help drive the adoption of energy efficient information and communications technologies in the federal government, incentivize renewable energy projects such as solar projects, and create a National Clean Technology Business Competition to help accelerate the growth of clean technology companies in America. “Through the American Clean Energy and Security Act, there will be an investment of $190 billion in new clean energy technologies and energy efficiencies, creating jobs, and spurring on new industries. In my home district of Silicon Valley, dozens of innovative companies at the cutting edge of clean energy technology are poised to create a thriving green industry providing healthy, sustainable economic growth in our region. These companies are looking to the future and see the opportunities that will be created by passing this bill,” said Rep. Eshoo. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of environmental, faith-based, industry, and labor groups, including: PG&E, Consumers Union, Sierra Club, Blue Green Alliance, Sun Microsystems, Applied Materials, Hewlett-Packard, National Venture Capital Association, Service Employees International Union, Dow Chemical, National Council of Churches, League of Conservation Voters, and United Auto Workers. Click here to see Rep. Eshoo speak on the House floor about the American Clean Energy and Security Act. ###
06.26.2009	+ SHARE Subcommittee Approves $10 million for Energy and Water Projects in 14th Congressional District June 26th, 2009 Washington, D.C- Rep. Anna G. Eshoo released the following statement after the Energy and Water Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee passed the FY2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act. The bill includes nearly $10 million in funding that will benefit the 14th Congressional District including: $2.8 million for the San Francisco Shoreline; $100,000 for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Project; $6.7 million for dredging the Redwood City Harbor; and $300,000 for the San Francisquito Creek flood project. The full House Appropriations Committee will next evaluate and mark up the bill which the Subcommittee has approved and send the bill to the full House for consideration. “I’m very pleased that the Subcommittee has passed a bill that includes some of the most important funding priorities for the 14th Congressional District. Each of these projects will help with the ongoing flood protection and water conservation efforts in Silicon Valley,” said Rep. Eshoo. “As the budget crisis in California worsens, it’s essential that projects critical to protecting our major routes of transportation, water systems, and homes not be neglected.” The FY 2010 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act includes money for the following four projects: $300,000 for the San Francisquito Creek to be used to complete a feasibility study of critical flood protection measures for the cities of Palo Alto, East Palo Alto, Menlo Park, and portions of San Mateo and Santa Clara Counties. The project will provide flood protection to three important Bay Area and state highway connector systems, a regional commuter rail system and a local airport. $2,800,000 for the San Francisco Shoreline to allow the Army Corps of Engineers to make satisfactory progress on completion of the Feasibility Report as directed by the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. The project generated from the Shoreline Study is expected to provide tidal and fluvial flood protection for Silicon Valley, including approximately 42,800 acres, 7,400 homes and businesses, and major highways, parks and airports. $100,000 for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program. The funding for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program will be used to construct pipeline and related conveyance facilities to develop and expand the use of recycled water to augment surface water supplies, helping to preserve overdrawn river and groundwater supplies, protect the environment, and improve the overall security and reliability of the Bay Area’s urban water systems. $6,745,000 for the Port of Redwood City to dredge the Redwood City Navigation Channel to its authorized depth of 30 feet. The dredging is necessary in order to preserve the commercial activity that passes daily through the Port of Redwood City, the only port that serves the many industries in Silicon Valley. ###
06.26.2009	+ SHARE Editorial: Congress must preserve medical research incentives in quest for health care reform June 26th, 2009 The San Jose Mercury News recently ran an Editorial in support of Rep. Eshoo’s Pathway for Biosimilars bill. To see the full editorial, click here.
06.23.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Dept. of Energy Technology Development Loan for Tesla Motors June 23rd, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement on the Department of Energy’s technology development loan for Tesla Motors. Energy Secretary Steven Chu announced today that Tesla will receive $465 million in low-interest loans under the Advanced Technology Vehicles Manufacturing (ATVM) Incentive Program, which was created in the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Rep. Eshoo was also successful in getting a provision based on her bill, H.R. 1742, in the American Clean Energy and Security Act to promote the deployment and integration of electric vehicles in regions across the country. “I’m extremely pleased that Tesla has been named a recipient of the Department of Energy’s AVTM Incentive Program loan. The new loan will allow Tesla to increase its manufacturing capacity and will create 650 green jobs in the Bay Area alone. I voted to create the AVTM Incentive Program because investing in innovative technologies that decrease our dependence on foreign oil is critical to our long-term energy needs. “Tesla was chosen through a competitive application process and this loan is a testament to their creative work to advancing electric vehicle technology throughout the past decade. Tesla is building the cars of the future and reinventing the American automobile industry right here in Silicon Valley.” ###
06.19.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces $6 million in Critical Transportation Funding for 14th Congressional District June 19th, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, which oversees Caltrain service in Santa Clara, San Mateo, and San Francisco Counties, will receive a $1 million grant for track and infrastructure rehabilitation. The Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District will receive $5 million to replace commuter and route buses. The grants were made available by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which Rep. Eshoo voted for and the Congress passed earlier this year. “These critical resources will allow the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board and the Santa Cruz Metropolitan Transit District to make important repairs to existing tracks and replace commuter and route buses,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Thousands of people rely on mass transit to get them to and from home, work and school every week. Investing in these two transportation projects will stimulate our regional economy and ensure that our public transportation systems continue to operating in a timely and safe manner.” ###
06.18.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Invest in Law Enforcement, American Innovation, Global Climate Change Research June 18th, 2009 $700,000 to fund projects in 14th Congressional District Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) voted today for the Fiscal Year 2010 Commerce-Justice-Science Spending Bill, which includes investments in state and local law enforcement, science, technology, and innovation. The legislation also includes grants totaling $700,000 for three local projects: The San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office Mobile Emergency Command; the YWCA of Silicon Valley Rape Crisis Center; and the East Palo Alto Violence Prevention Initiative. The bill passed by a vote of 259-157. “I voted for this bill because it is forward-leaning. It reflects the priorities we must focus on to transform our economy, with more than $30 billion in investments for science, technology and innovation as well as funding for state and local law enforcement agencies. This legislation invests in the best for America to succeed,” said Eshoo. “The bill also reaffirms our commitment to address global climate change by investing over $1 billion in climate change research, green building initiatives, and the development of greenhouse gas emissions standards.” The FY 2010 Commerce-Justice-Science Spending Bill includes money for three projects in the 14th Congressional District: $300,000 to purchase and equip a mobile Command Center for the San Mateo County Operational Area. The mobile Command Center enhances the region’s ability to maintain continuity of emergency and law enforcement operations during a catastrophic event. $200,000 for the YWCA of Silicon Valley Rape Crisis Center. The money will be used to achieve optimum staffing levels and provide the comprehensive sexual assault and violence prevention and intervention services that the community needs. $200,000 for the East Palo Alto Violence Prevention Initiative. The anti-gang initiative works with 13 other local, state and federal law enforcement agencies to address gang violence. The money will be used to enhance and support existing anti-gang programs. ###
06.10.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Funding for Public Transportation in 14th Congressional District June 10th, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board, which oversees Caltrain service in Santa Clara, San Mateo, and San Francisco Counties, will receive a $9 million grant for track, bridge, signal, and bicycle improvements. The San Mateo County Transit District will receive a $7 million grant to purchase buses and for preventative maintenance. This money was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act which Rep. Eshoo voted for and the Congress passed earlier this year. “These two grants will allow the Peninsula Corridor Joint Powers Board and the San Mateo County Transit District to complete much needed upgrades and maintenance,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Thousands of people rely on public transportation to take them to and from home, work and school every day. These grants will help keep our trains and buses running safely and on time, while creating new jobs and investing in our regional economy.” ###
05.20.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds Passage of Legislation to Ban Abusive Credit Card Industry Practices May 20th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) voted for the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights, which provides crucial protections for consumers against deceptive credit card industry practices. “Responsible credit card customers have watched as their interest rates triple and even quadruple – without warning and without justification,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The average amount of credit card debt per household is nearly $10,000 and about one-fifth of customers carrying credit card debt pay more than 20% in interest. Congress has taken steps to bail out the financial system, automakers and state governments. It’s high time we help the average consumer who is struggling in the current economy.” The legislation, which has already passed the Senate, will: Ban unfair rate increases and forbid abusive fees and penalties; End unwarranted penalties for cardholders who pay on time; Mandate greater transparency to give consumers clear information, such as requiring credit card companies to post their agreements online; Protect cardholders from due date gimmicks; and Prevent companies from using misleading terms and damaging consumer credit ratings. “This bill will finally bring equity and rationale to the credit card system in our country and provide immediate financial relief to millions of Americans mired in debt,” said Rep. Eshoo. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights (H.R. 627) passed the House with a vote of 361-64 and will now go to President Obama for his signature. ###
05.20.2009	+ SHARE Happening Now: American Clean Energy and Security Act May 20th, 2009 This week the Energy and Commerce Committee will begin to mark-up the American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act. To watch the mark-up, click here. To see the legislation, click here. ###
05.20.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Revised CAFE Standards May 20th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after President Obama issued new Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards. The new policy will create a standard of about 35 miles per gallon by 2016. “Bravo to President Obama for moving quickly to announce a new CAFE standard. For the first time in years we will have clear policy on national fuel-economy requirements that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil, make our air cleaner, and reduce the impact of cars on climate change. “California has always been a leader in promoting a cleaner environment and implementing stronger emissions standards. I join Governor Schwarzenegger today in supporting the new federal greenhouse-gas standard for cars and look forward to working with Energy and Commerce Chairman Waxman to strengthen environmental protections and combat climate change as we write the American Clean Energy and Security Act today.” ###
05.18.2009	+ SHARE American Clean Energy and Security Act May 18th, 2009 This week the Energy and Commerce Committee will begin to mark-up the American Clean Energy and Security (ACES) Act. To watch the mark-up, click here . To see the legislation, click here . ###
05.14.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Broadband Conduit Legislation May 14th, 2009 Bill Will Improve Access and Reduce Costs for Broadband Deployment. Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Broadband Conduit Deployment Act, which will spur the deployment of broadband networks throughout the U.S. She was joined in introducing the bill by House Energy & Commerce Chairman Henry Waxman (D-Beverly Hills), Communications, Technology and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Rick Boucher (D-Virginia), and Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Massachusetts). The legislation will require all new federal highway projects to include “broadband conduit” – plastic pipes which house fiber-optic communications cable. Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-Minnesota) is working on similar legislation for introduction in the Senate. “According to industry experts, more than half of the cost of new broadband deployment is attributable to the expense of tearing up and repaving roads,” said Rep. Eshoo. “By putting the broadband conduit in place while the ground beneath the roadways is exposed, we will enable any authorized communications provider to come in later and install fiber-optic cable at far less cost.” The Broadband Conduit Deployment Act would apply to all new road projects funded by federal surface transportation legislation, which is due to be reauthorized this year. The Department of Transportation is permitted to waive the requirement where necessary and is required to work with the FCC to determine levels of existing service and potential demand for broadband service in a particular area. “Depending on what study you look at, the U.S. ranks anywhere from 15th to 22nd in broadband, behind countries such as Finland, Belgium, and Luxembourg,” said Eshoo. “Anything we can do to reduce the barriers to deployment and increase investment and competition for broadband will make our country more connected, more competitive, and more prosperous. This simple, commonsense proposal will actually do a great deal to connect more Americans to more affordable, higher quality broadband connectivity.” # # #
05.05.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Testifies Before House Financial Services Committee on Impact of Lehman Bros. Bankruptcy May 5th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) issued the following statement today at a House Financial Services Hearing on the impact of Lehman Brothers’ bankruptcy on state and local entities. Rep. Eshoo inserted language into the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act which allows the Treasury Secretary to use funds from the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) to purchase troubled assets from state and local entities. *** Chairman Frank, Ranking Member Bachus, and Members of the Committee, thank you for the opportunity to speak to you today about a matter of critical importance to local communities across the country. This hearing is necessary so that any discussion concerning the financial losses of the public entity victims of the Lehman bankruptcy can be put into appropriate context. Chairman Frank rightly called these public entities the “unfair victims of this financial crisis.” On September 15, 2008 — after 150 years of continuous operation — Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy. The Lehman bankruptcy was the largest in U.S. history, with nearly $700 billion in reported debt, and it is described as a triggering event for the resulting international financial crisis. Following the collapse of Lehman, the Executive and Legislative branches of our government responded rapidly and aggressively in order to prevent any further failures of other major institutions by adopting the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. The Act, signed into law by President Bush on October 3, 2008, created the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”) and gave the Secretary of the Treasury both the authority and the responsibility to provide financial assistance to institutions through the purchase of “troubled assets,” on such terms and conditions as may be appropriate. (Sections 101 and 102). In exercising this authority, the Secretary is required to take a number of factors into consideration, including “the need to ensure stability for United States public instrumentalities, such as counties and cities, that may have suffered significant increased costs or losses in the current market turmoil”. (Section 103(7).) I proposed this language and it was added to the bill with the support and assistance of Chairman Frank and his staff, as well as Speaker Pelosi. Since adoption of the Act, the Treasury Secretary committed to provide financial assistance in the approximate amount of $590 billion to more than 535 financial institutions. This assistance includes approximately $45 billion to the Bank of America, $50 billion to Citigroup, $40 billion to insurance giant AIG and $24.8 billion to automakers. To date, however, no assistance under the Act has been provided to any United States public instrumentality. It’s been said that some banks are too big to fail. It can also be said that counties, school districts and cities are too small to be noticed. Their losses represent ¼ of 1% of TARP funding. The fact that TARP was intended to, and should, assist local public instrumentalities is clear. This fact was further confirmed on January 14, 2009, when Chairman Frank, in response to my questions on the Floor of the House of Representatives, reinforced that the Act is intended to provide financial assistance to local governmental entities which were significantly impacted by the Lehman bankruptcy and that the Act expressly provides authority for the Secretary of the Treasury to provide relief to municipalities. In fact, Mr. Chairman, I think you said it best when you indicated that it was important “not simply to confirm that the authority is there but to say that we expect it to be used and to demand that if it is not used, we get a written explanation as to why not.” On November 7, 2008, I wrote to Secretary Paulson, requesting that he exercise his authority under Section 103(7) of the Emergency Stabilization At of 2008, to purchase the troubled assets held by local governments. He called me on November 21st and reiterated his decision not to include local governments in the TARP. On November 25, 2008, I wrote to the Presidential Transition Team, spelling out the case and the authority under the TARP law, and the lack of action on the part of the previous Administration. I strongly urged the new Administration to use its authority to protect taxpayer funds and purchase the troubled assets of local governments. On February 13, 2009, I wrote to Secretary Geithner and was joined by 26 House Colleagues requesting that he exercise his authority under TARP to purchase the troubled assets held by local governments. I ask that these letters, as well as a November 21, 2008 analysis I requested of the Congressional Research Service on the Authority of the Secretary of the Treasury under the Economic Stabilization Act, and a copy of the January 14, 2009, colloquy between Chairman Frank and myself be included in the hearing Record. The Treasury’s decision to let Lehman Fail is causing catastrophic losses to many localities, resulting in job losses, termination of ongoing construction projects, and elimination or reduction in critical services. Hospitals are reducing services and staff. Schools are laying off teachers. Police and fire departments are reducing patrols and limiting services. And what ‘wrongs’ are these school districts, counties and cities ‘guilty’ of? Investing in highly rated instruments in Lehman Brothers. If we want our national economy to rebound, our local economies cannot be left behind. This is not just a California problem. It includes public entities from Florida, Colorado, Arizona, Michigan, Massachusetts, Missouri, Oregon and Washington State. And the list goes on. Local public entities should be able to recover some of the dollars lost. To date, Lehman Brothers is the only financial institution that was allowed to collapse and our schools, public safety, and social services will suffer if we don’t return these dollars back to our local governments. We have a law which is clear. We have a case that is clear. What we need is clear, decisive action to right this wrong. Local taxpayers and communities should not have to tolerate losing their most basic services because Lehman Brothers was allowed to go down. ###
05.01.2009	+ SHARE Flu Resources May 1st, 2009 The Influenza A/H1N1 virus (“swine flu”) has received extensive media coverage in recent days. While there is no reason to panic, it is important to take this illness seriously and to do everything possible to minimize its impact. Federal, state and local agencies are working together to monitor and contain the spread of the H1N1 virus and they are coordinating efforts to ensure that our health care system is prepared and fully equipped to respond effectively in the event of a more widespread outbreak. Individuals have a critical role in preventing the spread of the virus and the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC) urges people to take sensible, everyday precautions to limit the spread of germs that can cause infection. Tips to protect your health and information about symptoms can be found here: http://www.cdc.gov/swineflu/swineflu_you.htm Congress continues to monitor this situation closely and I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that the necessary federal resources are directed to combat the spread of the H1N1 flu and support the response capability of our health care system. You can visit the following websites for up-to-date information, to track the illness and find medical guidance for protecting your health and that of your family: Influenza A/H1N1 in California: http://ww2.cdph.ca.gov/HealthInfo/discond/Pages/SwineInfluenza.aspx Influenza A/H1N1 in the U.S.: www.cdc.gov/swineflu or http://www.PandemicFlu.gov. Influenza A/H1N1 internationally: www.who.int/en. Travel health warnings and recommendations: http://wwwn.cdc.gov/travel/ Local information by County: Santa Clara County: http://www.sccgov.org/swine_flu_update.html San Mateo County: http://www.co.sanmateo.ca.us/smc/department/home/0,,1954_569703730_1367084717,00.html Santa Cruz County: http://www.santacruzhealth.org/alerts/index.htm#swine
05.01.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Praises Commerce Secretary Locke’s Decision to Release Remaining Salmon Disaster Funds May 1st, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo issued the following statement today after Commerce Secretary Gray Locke announced the continuation of the salmon fishing disaster declared on May 1, 2008. The Secretary’s decision today will ensure unspent 2008 funds, totaling $53.1 million, will be available in 2009 to fishing communities in California and Oregon. “I’m highly pleased and grateful that Secretary Locke has taken the appropriate course of action in distributing emergency funds to the communities affected by the salmon fishing ban. This is the right thing to do, particularly after another record-low amount of salmon returned to the Sacramento-San Joaquin River this fall. Last year, I fought to have the money allocated by Congress directed to communities that were devastated by the fishing ban, and today I welcome the Obama Administration’s decision to release the remaining funds. “I will continue to work with Secretary Locke and the Administration to ensure the recovery and restoration of the salmon populations along the West Coast, always keeping in mind those whose livelihoods depend on the Chinook salmon.” ###
04.30.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Protect Consumers from Unfair Credit Card Industry Practices April 30th, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today for the Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights which provides crucial protections for consumers against unfair and deceptive credit card industry practices. The legislation ends the misleading and egregious practices that are commonplace in the credit card industry today, including any-time, any-reason rate hikes and double cycle billing. It bans retroactive rate hikes on existing balances and requires 45-days notice of any interest rate hike. The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights also: Ends unfair, arbitrary interest rate increases; Lets consumers set hard credit limits and stop excessive “over the limit” fees; Ends unwarranted penalties for cardholders who pay on time; Protects cardholders from due date gimmicks; and Prevents companies from using misleading terms and damaging consumers’ credit ratings. “The Credit Cardholder’s Bill of Rights will help stimulate the economy by putting more dollars in the hands of consumers and not into the coffers of major credit card companies. These companies will no longer be allowed to penalize cardholders who pay on time, or shift allocation of payments to maximize interest rates,” said Eshoo. “Congress has already taken urgent steps to bail out our financial system. It’s time to throw a life preserver to families struggling to tread water in the rising tide of consumer debt. There’s no doubt in my mind that America must go on a ‘credit diet,’ but two-thirds of our national economy is based on consumer spending, making credit cards, how they are used and what people are charged in that usage, very important. “Good, stable credit card customers have watched as their existing balances triple and even quadruple – without warning and without justification. Today, Congress has the opportunity to bring equity and rationale to our credit card system and provide immediate financial relief to millions of Americans.” The Credit Cardholders’ Bill of Rights (H.R. 627) passed the House with a vote of 357-70. ###
04.28.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Funding for Port of Redwood City April 28th, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the Port of Redwood City will receive $4 million in funding, which was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. It will be used to accomplish maintenance dredging of the port entrance and turning basins providing full authorized channel availability. “This project is crucial to preserve the commercial activity that passes daily through the Port of Redwood City. This is the only port serving the many industries in Silicon Valley and its maintenance is critical to our local economy,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The funding through the Army Corps of Engineers will return the port to its authorized depth of 30 feet and save thousands of jobs associated directly and indirectly with the Port of Redwood City.” ###
04.21.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s Proposed Greenhouse Gas Findings April 21st, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D- Palo Alto), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement in response to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Jackson’s announcement that carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perflorocarbons and sulfurx hexafluoride are greenhouse gases that endanger the welfare and health of the public. The proposed findings also state that emissions from motor vehicles contribute to climate change. The EPA will conduct a 60-day comment period, and two public meetings on the proposed findings. “This is another example of the new Administration taking the threat of climate change seriously and using scientific evidence to make informed decisions. We are at a key juncture of the climate change debate in our country. I’m confident as a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee that we will craft and pass comprehensive energy and climate change legislation this year and we will work with the EPA to ensure that the welfare of our citizens and the planet are protected from harmful greenhouse gases.” ###
04.15.2009	+ SHARE 14th Congressional District Funding Requests for Fiscal Year 2010 April 15th, 2009 The following requests have been submitted to the House Appropriations Committee for the 14th Congressional District of California and include only public agencies and non-profit entities, this is the first step and there are several steps ahead: Subcommittee on Labor, HHS, and Education East Palo Alto Green Job Training Initiative City of East Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $1 million 2415 University Avenue East Palo Alto, CA 94303 The City wants to create a “Green Jobs” training program that will prepare unemployed residents to take on new green jobs. East Palo Alto’s unemployment rate is double that of the county average. Expansion of Eden Housing’s Digital Connector At-Risk Youth Program Eden Housing FY10 federal funding request: $170,930 22645 Grand Street Hayward, CA 94541 Eden Housing provides affordable housing units for low-income students. They want to expand their Digital Connector program into East Palo Alto, which trains children who live in the Eden housing complexes in technology use, hardware and software, so that they may use these skills later on. Project Read – Menlo Park City of Menlo Park FY10 federal funding request: $80,000 800 Alma Street Menlo Park, 94205 This funding would go toward providing English classes and computer instruction for non-native speakers. English classes of thirty students each meet twice weekly for 90 minutes over a 12-week term. Santa Clara Family Health Plan’s Childhood Obesity Prevention and Education Santa Clara Family Health Foundation FY10 federal funding request: $231,400 210 East Hacienda Avenue Campbell, CA 95008 The program seeks to impact obesity and its complications among high-risk, low-income children in Santa Clara County through a comprehensive case management approach. 2-1-1 Santa Clara County United Way of Silicon Valley FY10 federal funding request: $100,000 1400 Parkmoor Avenue Suite 250 San Jose, CA 95126 This funding will help to implement the non-emergency, 3 digit phone number which has been authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission for use within the County of Santa Clara, in order to streamline access to critical health and human services. CK-12 Flexbooks for Elementary School, Middle School and High School STEM Curriculum CK-12 Foundation FY10 federal funding request: $3 million 1860 Embarcadero Road #100 Palo Alto, Ca 94303 This project would create a baseline archive of educational assets (termed “Flexbooks”) of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) courses that shall be available free of cost to all K-12 entities. This library will be created through a combination of seeding CK-12 commissioned content, promoting incentives for community-based authoring, and from content created through university collaborations. Student Dropout Prevention and Teacher Resiliency Initiative Institute of Heartmath FY10 federal funding request: $395,000 14700 West Park Avenue Boulder Creek, CA 95006 The program addresses student dropout and teacher resiliency, focusing on structural, “socioemotional,” and programmatic causes of student dropout. The funds will be used in East Palo Alto and Ravenswood. Palo Alto Arts Center City of Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $100,000 250 Hamilton Avenue Palo Alto, CA 94301 The project will upgrade, replace and install energy efficient HVAC and lighting systems that have been in place since 1951. The upgrades will bring the lights up to current codes and energy efficiency. Renovations are being done throughout the building but federal funds would be used for lighting upgrades. Subcommittee on Labor, HHS, and Education National Requests (Multi-Member) Teach for America Teach for America FY10 federal funding request: $25 million 315 West 36th Street, New York, NY 10018 Explanation of the Request: Teach for America is an authorized federal program under P.L. 110-315. The purpose of the funding is to go towards the recruitment, selection, placement and professional development of an estimated 8200 first- and second-year teachers in 39 low-income regions across the nation. These teachers will reach an estimated 525,000 underserved students. The $25 million in federal funds will leverage roughly $160 million in corporate, foundation and individual dollars and will make up an estimated 13 percent of Teach For America’s anticipated 2010 operating revenue of $190 million. This is a valuable investment of federal funds as this national corps of outstanding college graduates and young professionals of all academic majors, career interests and backgrounds commit at least two years to teach in urban and rural public schools in our nation’s lowest-income communities and become lifelong leaders for expanding educational opportunity. Teach For America is a non-profit with a mission of enlisting our nation’s most promising future leaders in the movement to eliminate educational inequality. This is accomplished by building a diverse, highly selective national teacher corps, ensuring that corps members are highly effective classroom teachers in the highest-need classrooms across the country, and supporting the corps members beyond their two-year commitment to ensure their lifelong engagement. Reach Out and Read National Center Reach Out and Read FY10 federal funding request: $10 million 56 Roland Street, Boston, MA 02129 Explanation of the Request and why it is a valuable use of taxpayer funds: Reach Out and Read is a national program that promotes literacy and language development in infants and young children, targeting disadvantage and poor children and families. Through fifteen years of peer-reviewed and published research, an extensive body of documentation now clearly demonstrates the importance of promoting early language and literacy skills so that children have the essential reading skills to begin school successfully. Yet today, a large number of children do not receive the necessary support and assistance to develop these skills and begin kindergarten read to learn. To close this gap, the federal government provides funding for a variety of literacy programs and strategies that reach children and parents, and the professionals who interact with them. ROR has proven to among the most effective strategies to promote early language and literacy development and school readiness: pediatricians and other healthcare providers guide and encourage parents to read aloud to their children from their earliest years of their life, and send them home from each doctor visit with books and a prescription to read together. Currently, nearly 50,000 doctors and nurses have been trained in ROR’s proven strategies, and more than 3,500 clinics and hospitals nationwide are implementing the program, reaching more than 25% of America’s at-risk-children. Funding provided by Congress through the U.S. Department of Education has been matched by tens of millions of dollars from the private sector and state governments. Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science NASA Research Park University of California – Santa Cruz FY10 federal funding request: $2,000,000 1156 High Street Santa Cruz, California 95064 University Associates – Silicon Valley will use this funding to conduct a full system detail design of a facility dedicated to education, research and innovation in green technologies on 75 acres of land in the NASA Research Park, Moffet Field. It will ensure the project is in full compliance with and meeting the highest standards of the California Environmental Quality Act and sustainable architecture. East Palo Alto Violence Prevention Initiative City of East Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $1,000,000 2415 University Avenue East Palo Alto, California 94303 The anti-gang initiative cooperates with 13 other local, state and federal law enforcement agencies to address gang violence. Any funds appropriated will be used to enhance and support existing anti-gang programs. YWCA Rape Crisis Center YWCA of Silicon Valley FY10 federal funding request: $250,000 375 South Third Street San Jose, California 95112 The YWCA is requesting this funding in order to achieve optimal staffing levels and provide the comprehensive sexual assault and violence prevention and intervention services that the community needs. Mobile Emergency Command Center San Mateo County Sheriff’s Office FY10 federal funding request: $622,500 400 County Center Redwood City, California 94063 This funding would go toward the purchase and equipping of a mobile command center for the San Mateo County Operational Area. This mobile command center would enhance the region’s ability to maintain continuity of emergency and law enforcement operations in the event of a catastrophic event. Subcommittee on Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Half Moon Bay Library San Mateo County FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 400 County Center, 1st Floor Redwood City, California 94063 The library was constructed in 1971 to serve 3,500 people and by 2020 will be expected to serve over 36,000. The expansion will improve service points, new technologies, gathering areas for children, a space for teens to study, a family literacy center and a community meeting space. Revolving Loan Trust for First-Time Homebuyers The Housing Trust of Santa Clara County FY10 federal funding request: $400,000 95 South Market Street, Suite 550 San Jose, California 95113 This project will fund up to 62 loans for first-time homebuyers in Santa Clara County. The Housing Trust’s cumulative investment of $14 million has helped 2,039 families buy their first home. Scotts Valley Public Library City of Scotts Valley FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 1 Civic Center Drive Scotts Valley, California 95066 This project will fund the construction of a 15,000 to 20,000 square foot public library in Scotts Valley with affordable housing above the first floor. The current library is in a 5,500 square foot rented space. Felton Branch Library County of Santa CruzFY10 federal funding request: $500,000 701 Ocean Street, Room 520 Santa Cruz, California 95060 This project will fund securing the environmental clearance and permits, as well as developing the conceptual design of an 8,800 square foot public library in Felton to replace the existing 1250 square foot building. The new facility is aimed at meeting the needs of 16,000 residents in 8 communities by providing a community based learning center and after school tutoring. Santa Cruz County 511 System Santa Cruz County 511 SystemFY10 federal funding request: $1.5 million 1523 Pacific Avenue Santa Cruz, California 95060 Funding for this project will go towards deploying a multi-modal travel information system via the telephone and Internet in order to manage transportation demand in the heavily congested Santa Cruz and Monterey Bay regions. These greater efficiencies should lead to increased mobility in the area transportation system, reduce travel times, and assist with important public safety activities. University Avenue Interchange Improvements City of East Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $2 million 2415 University Avenue East Palo AltoCalifornia 94303 Funding will go towards construction of a diagonal southbound off-ramp, widening of the University Avenue overcrossing for pedestrians on the west side of the structure, and adding approximately 400 meters of auxiliary lane on the southbound approach to University Avenue at Route 101, and widening of the road for bike lanes. Central Expressway Auxiliary Lanes Santa Clara County, Roads and Airport DepartmentFY10 federal funding request: $750,000 101 Skyport Drive San Jose, California 95110 Central Expressway is a reliever route for US 101 with 4-6 lanes, carrying 110,000 to 150,000 users daily. To improve the operational safety between Mathilda and Fair Oaks Avenue, an auxiliary lane will be built in each direction to allow vehicles room to merge on and off the Expressway. East Palo Alto Free Community Shuttle Program City of East Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $250,000 2415 University Avenue East Palo Alto, California 94303 Launched in 2005 with federal Jobs Access and Reverse Commute funds, this program serves the most vulnerable residents, ensuring that people without access to reliable transportation are still able to maintain employment and conduct their daily activities. In the last three months of 2008 alone, 11,000 senior citizens, youth and economically disadvantaged citizens used this service. Positive Train Control System Caltrain FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 1250 San Carlos Avenue San Carlos, California 94070 The Collision Avoidance System Project is an integrated signal and communication system that will improve reliability and safety while responding to demand for expanded service along the U.S. 101 corridor. Federal support for this project will enable critical preliminary demonstration and deployment of this railroad traffic signal and control system. San Mateo County Smart Corridors (ITS) Project San Mateo County FY10 federal funding request: $1.5 million555 County Center Redwood City, California 94063 The project, located along portions of the US 101 corridor including SR 82 and local arterial streets, will implement inter-jurisdictional traffic management strategies by deploying integrated Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) elements and providing local jurisdictions the tools to mitigate recurring/non-recurring traffic congestion, improve traffic operations, and optimize existing roadway facilities. Grand Boulevard Initiative SamTrans FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 1250 San Carlos Avenue San Carlos, California 94070 Capital improvement projects on El Camino Real/Mission Street that support the Grand Boulevard vision of revitalizing the roadway, including improving pedestrian access, transit use and the quality of life along El Camino Real. Rengstorff Avenue Grade Separation City of Mountain View FY10 federal funding request: $2 million 500 Castro Street Mountain View, California 94039 The Rengstorff Avenue Grade Separation project will eliminate an at-grade railroad crossing of a major arterial roadway by constructing a grade separated crossing of Rengstorff Avenue at the regional transportation Caltrain tracks. This project includes depressing Rengstorff Avenue under Caltrain tracks, reconnecting the roadway sidewalks, bike lanes, a separate bike/pedestrian overcrossing, acquiring land, and relocating utilities. Highway 237/Highway 101/Mathilda Interchange City of Sunnyvale FY10 federal funding request: $1.5 million 456 W. Olive Avenue Sunnyvale, California 94086 This funding would be used for corridor improvements to two interchanges, roadway extension, and freeway improvements at Highway 237, Highway 101, and the Mathilda Interchange. City of Sunnyvale Concrete Replacement for Curbs, and Sidewalks City of Sunnyvale FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 W. Olive Avenue Sunnyvale, California 94086 The funds will be used for work consistent with requirements of the Federal Americans with Disability Act (ADA) for accessible walkways. The project will provide greater wheelchair accessibility throughout the community for senior and disabled residents. WIN on our Level Playing Field WIN on our Level Playing Field FY10 federal funding request: $150,000 235 Alma Street Palo Alto, California 94301 This project is aimed at creating a website to allow women and minority coaches in sports to have greater visibility in the hiring process within the NCAA. Subcommittee on Agriculture Best Practices in Agriculture Waste Management Project California Polytechnic State University FY10 federal funding request: $300,000 One Grand Avenue San Luis Obispo, California 93401 The funding would be used to support research on best practices for agriculture waste management at Swanton Pacific Ranch in Davenport and California Polytechnic State University. The Quagga and Zebra Mussel Prevention Project Santa Clara County FY10 federal funding request: $250,000 1553 Berger Drive, Building 1 San Jose, California 95112 The funding would be used for supporting inspection and monitoring of boats in Santa Clara County to help mitigate further spread of quagga and zebra mussel infestation, thereby protecting water delivery systems and the agricultural industry. Subcommittee on Interior and Environment and Related Agencies East Palo Alto Water Supply Improvement Project City of East Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $1.9 million 2415 University Avenue East Palo Alto, California 94303 Federal funding is needed to upgrade infrastructure to ensure a safe and reliable water supply. Existing water supply is insufficient to meet the demands of current redevelopment projects. The water distribution system in the Ravenswood Area of East Palo Alto does not have sufficient water storage capacity, and is in decay. Pigeon Point Lighthouse California State Parks Foundation FY10 federal funding request: $525,000 50 Francisco Street, Suite 110 San Francisco, California 94113 Pigeon Point Lighthouse, located in Pescadero California, is one of the oldest remaining lighthouses on the Pacific Coast. Funds would be used to restore the upper section of the lighthouse which is closed due to structural damage. Pigeon Point Lighthouse is one of only five lighthouse structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places. San Mateo County Sewer Pipe Replacement Project San Mateo County FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 400 County Center, First Floor Redwood City, California 94063 In 2008, San Mateo County had a total of 43 sewer overflows, which pollute surface and ground waters, and threaten public health. The request will enable the county to complete several critical projects identified in the County’s Sewer Master Plans. San Francisco Bay Salt Pond Restoration Project California State Coastal Conservancy FY10 federal funding request: $2 million 1330 Broadway, 13th Floor Oakland, California 94612 The Don Edwards San Francisco Bay National Wildlife Refuge is managing 9,600 acres of the recently acquired South Bay Salt Ponds. Funding is needed to manage the lands, including installation and management of water control structures, levee maintenance, and monitoring of salt ponds. Other benefits of the restoration project include increased flood protection along the perimeter of the project area, and public recreation opportunities, including trails for hiking, cycling and jogging. Clara Drive Storm Drain City of Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $825,000 250 Hamilton Avenue Palo Alto, California 94301 The requested funds will be used entirely for construction to complete the project. This project will eliminate an area of chronic street flooding in the Palo Alto community, avoiding potential property damage and traffic disruption. Wet Weather Flow Management Project Sewer Authority Mid-Coastside FY10 federal funding request: $550,000 1000 N. Cabrillo Highway Half Moon Bay, California 94019 The Sewer Authority Mid-Coastside (SAM) system cannot presently handle flows during large storm events, causing raw sewage to overflow into local beaches, specifically the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary. The proposed project increases the existing capacity of SAM’s collection system by installing two parallel reinforced concrete storage pipes, with a capacity of approximately 200,000 gallons, to store excess flow during a storm event. Naples Beach Sewer Pump Station Forcemain Realignment Granada Sanitary District FY10 federal funding request: $500,000 P.O Box 335 El Granada, California 94018 The current sewer forcemain pipeline is attached to an unmaintained and deteriorating pedestrian bridge over Medio Creek along the ocean, leaving the pipe vulnerable to breakage and subsequent spillage into the ocean. Sewage flow will be re-routed to a new forcemain connecting it to an existing main under Highway 1. Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development East Palo Alto Environmental Infrastructure Improvements Project, CA City of East Palo Alto FY10 federal funding request: $3 million 2415 University Avenue, East Palo Alto, California 94303 The funding will be used to construct a new storm water management and drainage system in the Ravenswood area. Authorized under Section 5158 of Water Resources Development Act 2007, this project will prevent flooding, protect sensitive wetlands and attract development. A project study report, topographic survey and preliminary plans have already been prepared and construction work on this project can start within four months once sufficient funds are allotted. San Francisquito Creek, CA San Francisquito Creek Joint Powers Authority FY10 federal funding request: $700,000 1231 Hoover Street Menlo Park, California 94025 The funding would be used to complete the feasibility study. The project will provide critical flood protection for residential, commercial, industrial and institutional developments in both Santa Clara and San Mateo Counties, encompassing the aforementioned cities and Stanford University. The project will provide flood protection to three important bay area and state highway connector systems, a regional commuter rail system and a local airport. Redwood City Harbor, CA Port of Redwood City FY10 federal funding request: $6.745 million Port of Redwood City 605 Seaport Boulevard Redwood City, California 94063 The funding would be used to dredge the Redwood City Navigation Channel to its authorized depth of 30 feet. Dredging was completed in December 2008, but funding was insufficient to return the Channel to 30 feet. Channel depth is currently 26.5 feet. Pillar Point Harbor, CA San Mateo County Harbor District FY10 federal funding request: $950,000 San Mateo County Harbor District 40 Oyster Point Boulevard Suite #300 San Mateo, California 94080 This funding would complete repairs to the breakwater already in progress and prevent or mitigate severe shoreline erosion. The project will provide several benefits including maintaining and improving navigational safety, better protecting existing structures, increasing public access and recreational use, increasing economic benefits, and improving beach habitat. Redwood City Harbor, CA Port of Redwood City FY10 federal funding request: $900,000 Port of Redwood City 605 Seaport Boulevard Redwood City, California 94063 The funding would continue the Feasibility Study to determine the proper depth for Redwood City Navigation Channel to maximize operational efficiency for the larger vessels now transiting the Channel. Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program Bay Area Clean Water Agencies FY10 federal funding request: $26.77 million 2500 Pittsburg-Antioch Highway Antioch, California 94509 The funding for the Bay Area Regional Water Recycling Program will be used to construct pipeline and related conveyance facilities to develop and expand the use of recycled water to augment surface water supplies, helping to preserve overdrawn river and groundwater supplies, protect the environment, and improve the overall security and reliability of the Bay Area’s urban water systems. San Francisco Shoreline California State Coastal Conservancy FY10 federal funding request: $2.8 million 1330 Broadway, 13th Floor Oakland, California 94612 This funding will allow the Army Corps of Engineers to make satisfactory progress on completion of the Feasibility Report as directed by the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. The project generated from the Shoreline Study is expected to provide tidal and fluvial flood protection for Silicon Valley, including approximately 42,800 acres, 7,400 homes and businesses, and major highways, parks and airports. Defense Subcommittee Conflict Mitigation through Women’s Effective Political Participation Women’s Campaign International FY10 federal funding request: $3,000,000 3701 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, PA 19104 Women’s Campaign International (WCI) will use these funds to expand and sustain its conflict mitigation and parliamentary/governance strengthening programs in Afghanistan, Colombia, Liberia, Sri Lanka and Sudan. The original programs were funded by the Department of Defense in FY07. The program outlined in this proposal is designed to build upon WCI’s relationships in these countries and the need for continued and sustained support for women candidates, elected officials, advocates and caucuses to transform conflict in these countries at the community and policy-making levels. WCI supports the U.S. Government’s strategic goal of strengthening democracy and good governance as well as decreasing corruption by increasing the participation of women in political processes, increasing women leader’s capacity and by promoting an active civil society. Military Construction, VA Subcommittee Main Gate Relocation California Air National Guard FY10 federal funding request: $4.5 million 284 Moffett Blvd, Suite A Mountain View, CA 94043 The 129 Rescue Wing (RQW) needs to relocate the main gate and the new gate needs to meet Air Force and DOD antiterrorism construction standards to minimize the likelihood of terrorist attack. A physical barrier is required to secure the Air National Guard cantonment area from the rest of Moffett Federal Airfield under the management of National Aeronautical and Space Administration (NASA) Ames Research Center (ARC). ###
04.09.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces Funding for 14th Congressional District in Recovery Package April 9th, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the 14th Congressional District will be receiving funds totaling over $912,000 from the Department of Homeland Security – Federal Emergency Management Agency. The funding was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. “This money will bring immediate relief to communities in our area that are already stretched to their limits trying to address the increasing demands on shelters, soup kitchens, and food banks,” said Rep. Eshoo. “These are vital services helping people to get back on their feet during the economic downturn.” San Mateo County will receive $203,694; Santa Clara County will receive $589,295; and Santa Cruz County will receive $120,865. This money may be used to supplement food, shelter, rent, mortgage and utility assistance programs for people with non-disaster related emergencies. ###
04.08.2009	+ SHARE Half Moon Bay’s Emergency Operations Center Receives Funding April 8th, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) announced $750,000 in funding for a new Emergency Operations Center (EOC) in Half Moon Bay, California. The funding, which Rep. Eshoo had written into the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, was approved under the EOC grants program operated by DHS’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). The grant provides funding for construction of the new facility and will improve emergency management and preparedness capabilities in Half Moon Bay and the Coastside. “I’m thrilled that the Half Moon Bay EOC is receiving this significant funding from the Department of Homeland Security,” said Rep. Eshoo. “It has been my priority to make sure that the people I represent are safe and secure at all times. This funding will help to ensure that this EOC is fully equipped to help my constituents on the Coastside should an emergency situation come about.” # # #
04.02.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Reduce Deficit, Invest in Health Care Reform, Education, and Energy Independence April 2nd, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today voted for H. Con. Res. 85, the FY2010 Budget, which passed the house by a vote of 233-196. “This budget represents a sea change for America,” said Rep. Eshoo. “It is the blueprint for a sustained economic recovery for our country’s future, making historic investments in health care reform, education, science, and energy independence which will create jobs today and establish the foundation for prosperity for the next generation of Americans. It’s a return to fiscal responsibility, cutting the deficit by nearly two-thirds and reducing taxes for middle class families,” said Rep. Eshoo. “It also tells the truth about the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.” The budget incorporates President Obama’s goals for healthcare reform to lower costs, improve quality, and include coverage for all Americans, as well as fully paying for national coverage and not adding to the national debt. The budget passed by the House builds on the single largest investment in K-12 education in U.S. history, which was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. It increases the maximum Pell Grant award, makes college more affordable and accessible for all Americans, and increases funding for early childhood education and school nutrition programs. The budget also makes critical investments to address one of the great challenges of the 21st century – climate change – by increasing funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency by 18% for 2010. It bolsters funds and tax incentives already included in the Recovery Act, provides loans for renewable energy power generation, modernizes the electricity grid, and helps state and local governments become more energy efficient. Finally, the House Budget Resolution for the first time fully accounts for the cost of two ongoing wars and provides for a permanent fix for the Alternative Minimum Tax which impacts more than 100,000 families in the 14th Congressional District. “This budget is a sound economic plan and it represents the highest American values,” said Rep. Eshoo. “It reverses eight years of neglect of our nation’s most critical priorities – health care, energy, science, and education – while putting the federal government back on a path of fiscal sanity.” # # #
04.01.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces $15 Million in Education Funding for 14th Congressional District April 1st, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the U.S. Department of Education will begin distributing nearly $15 million in funding to school districts in the 14th Congressional District. The funding, which was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will help save education-related jobs and maintain programs for low-income students and students with disabilities. “School districts in the 14th Congressional District have been hit hard by the current economic crisis. This funding is targeted to the schools that need it most. It will keep teachers in the classroom and help maintain quality instruction for students, and it represents the largest one-time investment in K-12 education in American history,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This is about more than dollars and cents. It’s about providing a quality education to every student.” In addition to the money released today, the economic recovery plan created a state stabilization fund to help stabilize state and local budgets and restore harmful cuts to education. The Obama Administration also issued guidelines today that confirm that while states allocate the funds, it is up to local school districts, colleges and universities to decide how to use the emergency aid. The guidelines also reaffirm that state stabilization funds should be used for three purposes: To reduce harmful cuts to K-12 and higher education; To stave off teacher layoffs; and To modernize school facilities. “I recently wrote to Governor Schwarzenegger to restate that these funds are meant to help our school districts directly … not to decrease the state’s deficit. I’m pleased that the Obama Administration has clarified this and that school districts will be receiving the full amount of funding they are authorized to receive under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act,” said Eshoo. According to numbers from the Department of Education and the Congressional Research Service, the 14th Congressional District will receive $2,950,407 for Title I Funding, which helps low income students. The District will also receive $12,015,000 in Individuals with Disabilities Act (IDEA) funding to maintain services for students with disabilities. The remainder of the ARRA education funding will be disbursed to states and school districts later this fall. ###
04.01.2009	+ SHARE USGS Menlo Park Science Center Receives $6.8 Million from Economic Recovery Package April 1st, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that the Menlo Park Science Center, the flagship research center for United States Geological Survey (USGS) on the West Coast, will receive a $6,889,000 grant to modernize and upgrade current facilities. The funding was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “The funding provided by the economic recovery package will go to much needed upgrades at the Menlo Park Science Center. This research facility performs crucial studies on earthquakes and seismic activity that have an impact on every Californian. With these building renovations, scientists and researchers will be able to focus on making the important discoveries that will serve the Bay Area and California for years to come,” said Rep. Eshoo. ###
04.01.2009	+ SHARE SLAC Receives $8 Million in Economic Recovery Funding April 1st, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement after the Department of Energy (DOE) announced $8 million in funding for the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC.) The funding, which was approved in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will go toward accelerating the excavation and disposal of contaminated soil and the installation of groundwater treatment systems. Last week the Department of Energy Office of Science also announced $68.3 million in funding for SLAC from the economic recovery package. “I’m thrilled that SLAC is receiving this significant funding from the Department of Energy. These targeted resources will speed clean up efforts, create jobs, and restore areas that have been impacted by chemical contamination. SLAC has always been at the forefront of research and science and this money will ensure that the environment in which these discoveries are made is safe and well managed.” ###
03.27.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces $641,166 for Community Health Centers March 27th, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that $641,166 will be awarded to the San Mateo County Health Services Agency, the South County Community Health Center in East Palo Alto, and Santa Cruz County. This funding comes from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and the resources will help support and expand services provided by community health centers. “This money is going where it’s needed most. Our community health centers serve those who are in need and these grants will allow them to expand the critical services they provide to our community. With California’s unemployment rate at 10.5%, and predictions that it will be above 12% next spring, it’s more important than ever to help the newly uninsured,” said Rep. Eshoo. “These health centers provide medical care to thousands of people in the 14th Congressional District and I’m thrilled that they will be receiving this much needed funding.” The San Mateo County Health Services Agency will receive $180,182; South County Community Health Center in East Palo Alto will receive $236,533; and Santa Cruz County will receive $224,451. ###
03.27.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Bill to Promote Use of Electric Vehicles March 27th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) this week introduced a bill that will promote the deployment and integration of electric vehicles in regions across the country. H.R.1742 will allow state or local governments to apply to the Secretary of Energy for financial assistance in furthering the regional deployment of electricity powered vehicles, including plug-in hybrids. “The U.S. can address its dependence on oil and become a global leader of technology to electrify the transportation sector if we enact policies that encourage collaboration and development of innovative technologies,” said Rep. Eshoo. “My bill will encourage the use of electric vehicles across the nation and decrease our reliance on foreign oil.” The bill authorizes the Secretary of Energy to establish a program to integrate plug-in electric drive vehicles into regions across the country. It allows individuals or groups of state and local governments to apply to the Secretary for financial assistance in furthering the regional deployment of plug-in electric vehicles. The applications can be jointly sponsored by a wide range of groups including electric utilities, automobile manufacturers, technology providers, or car sharing companies or organizations. The money awarded by the Secretary will go toward offsetting in whole or in part the cost of electric vehicles above the cost of comparable conventionally fueled cars. Funds can also be used for deployment of activities that will help build the necessary infrastructure for large scale use of plug-in electric drive vehicles. Examples of eligible projects include electrical charging stations, battery exchanges, smart grid equipment and infrastructure to facilitate the integration of plug-in electric drive vehicles. “The President has spoken at length about using private-public partnerships to overcome the obstacles we face. My legislation will encourage the government to work with private entities to facilitate the integration of electric cars in our country,” said Rep. Eshoo. H.R. 1742 is supported by the Electric Drive Transportation Association (EDTA) which represents manufacturers, energy companies, battery manufacturers, universities, and cross-sector organizations. Its members include companies such as Google, Tesla Motors, Better Place, and Coulomb Technologies. “EDTA supports Rep. Eshoo’s effort to establish large scale grid-connected transportation demonstrations across the country; it’s a critical next step for grid-connected transportation,” said Brian P. Wynne, President of the Electric Drive Transportation Association. “Google is pleased to support Congresswoman Eshoo’s bill, which will promote public and private infrastructure for charging plug-in electric vehicles. Smart charging of plug-in electric vehicles will help to accommodate intermittent renewable generation sources like wind and solar and will help to accelerate the widespread adoption of these vehicles,” said Alec Brooks, a Renewable Energy Engineer at Google. “Better Place congratulates Congresswoman Anna Eshoo on the introduction of this legislation today. Better Place is working toward a global mission of eliminating the stranglehold of oil on our transportation and economy, and has concluded that electrification of transportation is not only the most effective way to achieve that goal, but that it is a transition that can be accomplished relatively rapidly. Congresswoman Eshoo’s bill, should it become law, would enable Better Place and other companies to create the infrastructure necessary to make electric cars more affordable and more convenient to consumers than gas cars are today. Better Place is grateful for Congresswoman Eshoo’s leadership in proposing this important bill, and urges Congress to move quickly to adopt it,” said Mike Granoff, Head of Oil Independence Policies for Better Place. “Congresswoman Eshoo has been a consistent and strong supporter of electric vehicles, including Tesla Motors’s efforts. Tesla Motors is supportive of the intent of the bill and thank Congresswoman Eshoo for her hard work,” said Diarmuid O’Connell, V.P. Business Development at Tesla. “Electric Vehicles bring 3 great benefits to Americans: 1) A low cost fuel, 2) A clean car that will save an estimate 2,000 pounds of greenhouse gasses per year, and 3) Vehicles that run on a fuel we make here in the US and don’t need to import. Moving ahead the infrastructure for these cars will enable all Americans to take advantage of these benefits. In addition it will create thousands of jobs immediately as electricians and contractors install the charging stations we need,” said Richard Lowenthal, CEO of Coulomb Technologies. To see the text of the bill, click here . ###
03.26.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Increase Funding to Fight Wildfires March 26th, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to establish a fund to help pay for emergency wildfire suppression. Last year one of the most destructive wildfire seasons in history resulted in nearly 1.4 billion acres of land being burned in California, including the devastating Summit Fire in the Santa Cruz mountains. The rapidly rising cost to fight wildland fires has forced federal agencies to “borrow” money from non-fire programs when annually appropriated funds run out. The Federal Land Assistance, Management and Enhancement (FLAME) Act creates a supplemental fund to assist with the costs of emergency wildfire suppression activities. “Last year hundreds of my constituents in Santa Cruz County were evacuated because of several wildfires. Thousands of homes across the state were destroyed and millions of dollars were spent fighting these fires. The emergency fund established by this bill will act as a safety net in case the funds budgeted by the federal government run out,” said Rep. Eshoo. Over the last decade, the cost of fighting wildland fires has skyrocketed and it now accounts for almost 48% of the entire Forest Service budget and 10% of the Department of Interior budget. Projections indicate that this trend will continue for years to come as the result of drought, climate change, and other factors. The fund created by this bill would be used when annually appropriated funds run out and after the Secretary of Interior or Agriculture issues a declaration that the fire is large enough and dangerous enough to warrant using money from the fund. The legislation will require the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture to submit a report to Congress one year after enactment containing a comprehensive wildland fire management strategy. The bill also creates grants for community fire prevention that will be used towards purchasing firefighting equipment and training local firefighters. “The community grants in this bill will help our constituents who are potentially facing one of the worst fire seasons on record. The program will allow local firefighters to have the equipment and training they need to fight and prevent wildfires. It will also be used to educate the community about the danger of wildfires,” said Rep. Eshoo. The FLAME Act is supported by the five living former Chiefs of the Forest Service, the Western Governors’ Association, the American Forest and Paper Association, the National Association of State Foresters, the National Association of Counties, the Wilderness Society, the National Parks Conservation Association, and almost 40 other organizations. The legislation passed the House by a vote of 412 to 3. ###
03.26.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces $6 Million in Energy Efficiency Funding for 14th Congressional District March 26th, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that $6.3 million dollars will be awarded to cities in the 14th Congressional District, as well as San Mateo County, to improve energy efficiency and reduce total energy use and fossil fuel emissions. The funding for these grants comes from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.. “Investments in energy efficiency and reducing our total energy use are essential and with these block grants communities will pursue the cleanest and most efficient energy sources. Green jobs will be created, stimulating local economies, while laying the foundation for a long-term commitment to conservation and clean energy,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This is great news and a compliment to our Congressional District that is leading in energy efficient policies.” The City of Mountain View will receive $719,000, Palo Alto will receive $663,000, Redwood City will receive $736,300, Sunnyvale will receive $1,292,000 and the County of San Mateo will receive $2,951,200. ###
03.24.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Announces $15.5 Million for Palo Alto and Menlo Park VA March 24th, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today that $15.5 million has been approved for the Palo Alto and Menlo Park VA facilities. The funding for several projects at each facility comes from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which Congress passed earlier this year. “Recovery is the work of the VA and I’m highly pleased that $15.5 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is directed to the VA in Palo Alto and Menlo Park. The resources will benefit the brave men and women who have protected our country for so many years. The funds will go towards purchasing equipment critical to the care of our veterans and repairing the facilities’ roads and buildings,” said Rep. Eshoo. The Menlo Park VA will receive $12.5 million for upgrades and renovations to their facilities. The Palo Alto VA will receive $3 million for patient lift equipment and repairs to the existing facilities. ###
03.23.2009	+ SHARE SLAC Receives $68.3 Million in Funding from Economic Recovery Package March 23rd, 2009 Washington, D.C-Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and SLAC Director Persis Drell released the following statements today after the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science (DOE-SC) announced that the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center (SLAC) National Accelerator Laboratory will be receiving $68.3 million in funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. “These significant DOE-SC funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act to SLAC will advance America’s scientific innovation and help shape a stronger economic future for our nation,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The funding will be invested in construction, scientific instrumentation, and research. It will allow scientists to continue their groundbreaking research that will lead to breakthroughs in green energy, medicine, and much more. I will continue to fight in Washington for investments in science because it creates jobs, improves our science facilities, and ensures that the United States remains competitive in the global economy.” “We are very excited that these funds will allow us to make new investments in SLAC and in the scientific future of our country,” said SLAC Director Persis Drell. “Because of the stimulus and the steadfast support of Congresswoman Eshoo and House Speaker Pelosi, we will be able to accelerate delivery of science from our premier new facility, the Linac Coherent Light Source. We will also be able to modernize our aging facilities and build progressive new ones. Rebuilding our scientific infrastructure will benefit society far into the future, while providing new hope and jobs to the local economy now.” ###
03.19.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on AIG Bonuses March 19th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1586, a bill that will hold companies that receive funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) accountable for bonuses paid to their executives. The legislation applies a separate income tax rate of 90 percent to bonuses received by individuals from companies who have received at least $5 billion from TARP. It would also apply to bonuses paid by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. “Every company that receives TARP funds should consider themselves a public fiduciary. The monies they received are not investor dollars, they are taxpayer dollars. Use of these funds for excessive bonuses to executives is outrageous and a slap in the face to the very taxpayers who are propping them up. This bill will force executives to pay back their bonus money to the Treasury before the end of the year. I’m committed to ensuring that the taxpayer dollars used to fund financial rescues are spent wisely and effectively, and I will continue to do everything I can to prevent any further abuses of the public trust.” ###
03.17.2009	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Inslee, and Barton Introduce Pathway for Biosimilars Act March 17th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D – CA), Jay Inslee (D – WA), and Joe Barton (R – TX) today introduced the Pathway for Biosimilars Act (H.R. 1548). The bill creates a process for approval of “biosimilars” or “follow-on biologics” while protecting patient health and safety, lowering health care costs, and providing adequate incentives for innovation. Representatives Eshoo and Inslee were the lead sponsors of two separate biosimilar bills during the 110th Congress, and now have one bill with Rep. Barton, ranking member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, to bring congressional stakeholders and interested parties to bipartisan consensus with this joint legislation. In 1984 the highly successful Hatch-Waxman Act was enacted, establishing a new market for generic versions of pharmaceuticals. Today, patients can buy generic drugs that are safe and save them money compared with brand name drugs. The Pathway for Biosimilars Act will accomplish the same thing for biologics. Many of the most exciting developments in medical science are occurring in the field of biotechnology. While ordinary pharmaceuticals primarily treat the symptoms of a disease or illness, the biotechnology industry has been developing biologics that can be manipulated to target the underlying mechanisms and pathways of a disease. The original patents on biologics are beginning to expire and Congress should act now to consider how the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will consider and approve these groundbreaking treatments. The pharmaceutical drug production process is easily replicated and a “generic” drug product is virtually identical to the original innovative compound. With biologics, the manufacturing process is unique to each biologic and is not generally disclosed as part of the published patent, making it impossible to “duplicate” the innovative biologic product. However, with sufficient safeguards for patient safety and incentives for innovation, the development of biosimilars has the potential to bring new competition, choices, and lower prices to the biotech industry. “Biotechnology can lead to cures for cancer, diabetes, and AIDS, and prevent the onset of deadly and debilitating diseases like Alzheimer’s, heart disease, and Parkinson’s,” said Eshoo. “But we need to preserve incentives to innovate and ensure that these therapies are safe and effective. Our bill accomplishes this. “This bill sets forth a straightforward, scientifically based process for expedited approval of new biologics based on innovative products already on the market. This new biosimilars approval pathway will promote innovation, competition, and lower prices, but also ensures that patients are given safe and effective treatments that have been subjected to thorough scrutiny and testing by the FDA.” “With this legislation, we can create a pathway to lower-cost copies of biotech drugs without sacrificing safety or eliminating incentives to create breakthrough medicines,” said Inslee, who serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and represents a Seattle-area district with a strong biotech sector. “This is not an either-or situation. We can deliver both safety and broader access to these life-saving medicines, while ensuring continued biotech innovation. And we must.” “Congress needs to finally act on this issue. Our bill promotes competition through biosimilars in a way that puts patient safety first and also encourages new therapies and medical advancement,” said Barton. “I want the Energy and Commerce Committee to take up this issue soon, and I hope we can pass legislation this year.” This legislation is supported by the academic and research community, patients, biotech companies, and the entrepreneurs who support the small start-up firms that form the basis of the biotechnology industry. To see the bill, click here . ###
03.11.2009	+ SHARE California’s 14th Congressional District Tops Gallup’s “Well-Being Index” March 11th, 2009 California’s 14th Congressional District topped Gallup’s well-being index this year. The San Francisco Chronicle wrote about Rep. Eshoo’s reaction to news that her Congressional District was the “most content” and had the highest job satisfaction in the nation. Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, the eight-term representative and the first woman ever elected to represent the district – which includes the cities of Sunnyvale, Mountain View, Santa Clara and Palo Alto – said that the news is welcome indeed in a time when, well, happy headlines are hard to come by. “There’s not a shred of good news around – but when I woke up and saw this on my BlackBerry, I let out an ‘all right!’ right in my bathroom,” said an ecstatic Eshoo in an interview on Tuesday. Eshoo said she has long bragged to her congressional colleagues that “I represent the most distinguished district in the entire nation” – but she noted that the new Gallup survey now confirms that there’s more than just bragging rights involved. “It is an extraordinary place,” she said of the region that boasts of Stanford University, the venture capital bastions of Sand Hill Road, Santa Clara University and the Google headquarters. In a region where her constituents include some of the country’s most innovative and successful high-tech entrepreneurs, she said, “change is not this year’s political promise … it’s a constant requirement and continuing expectation.” To see the full San Francisco Chronicle article, click here. To hear Rep. Eshoo’s KCBS interview, click here. To see the study, click here.
03.11.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo, Speier Statement on Meeting with San Mateo County Officials and Chairman Barney Frank March 11th, 2009 Washington, DC – Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) and Jackie Speier (D – San Mateo) attended a meeting this week with officials from San Mateo County and House Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank to discuss the use of Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds to purchase troubled assets held by local governments. “I’m grateful that Chairman Barney Frank committed to a public hearing on the issue of public funds lost due to the collapse of Lehman Brothers,” said Eshoo. “This is progress and I’m hopeful that San Mateo County and other public entities will be able to recover some of the dollars invested in conservative instruments. Our schools, public safety, and social services will suffer if we cannot return a portion of these dollars back to our local governments.” “Lehman Brothers was the only large financial institution allowed to fail and its failure cost state and local governments more than $2 billion,” said Speier. “I’m grateful that Chairman Frank has agreed to hold hearings on this important matter and I look forward to finding a solution that returns some of these taxpayer funds back to the public entities where they belong.” Representatives from San Mateo County in the meeting included Supervisor Rich Gordon, Supervisor Rose Jacobs Gibson, and Deputy County Manager Mary McMillan. San Mateo County officials also met with the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs, Senators Boxer and Feinstein, and the House and Senate Finance Committees.
03.10.2009	+ SHARE Politico: Which districts are happiest? March 10th, 2009 On Tuesday, March 10, the Politico published an article about a recent Gallup survey that found the 14th Congressional District the “most content” in the nation. Residents of the 14th Congressional District also had the highest job satisfaction in the nation, according to the survey. To read the full article, click here.
03.06.2009	+ SHARE Op-Ed: Great stimulus plan? Reform credit card industry March 6th, 2009 Rep. Eshoo authored an op-ed in the San Jose Mercury News on the reforms needed in the credit card industry. To see the op-ed, click here.
03.06.2009	+ SHARE Headline Press Release 1 March 6th, 2009 Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Ut lorem felis, elementum eget condimentum a, rutrum sit amet ligula. Mauris porta faucibus risus, at laoreet velit aliquam vel. Donec lacinia nisi ac tortor consectetur non condimentum purus lobortis. In condimentum gravida leo, at aliquet ligula tincidunt pulvinar. Vestibulum non facilisis tellus. Cras eget ligula a eros accumsan aliquet et a orci. Phasellus ullamcorper posuere suscipit. Praesent dictum diam lobortis nulla feugiat in condimentum eros consectetur. Aliquam pellentesque ipsum sit amet sapien mattis auctor. Proin et tortor massa, quis suscipit nisl. Duis turpis velit, elementum consequat scelerisque nec, vestibulum vitae lectus. Fusce eget tellus metus. Integer tempus, velit at euismod tristique, orci metus facilisis lectus, in interdum urna est quis nisl. Donec vitae nisi est, eget adipiscing eros. Nunc et nisl eget arcu ultrices convallis et ac ligula. Phasellus ante nibh, tristique pharetra ultrices vitae, laoreet nec nisi. Proin pretium lacinia tempor. Proin vel justo a sapien congue sodales. Ut vehicula tortor eget dui fringilla ultrices in non nisl. Vivamus cursus, turpis at fringilla vulputate, massa tortor iaculis turpis, nec consequat turpis dui sed erat. Nunc nisi augue, sollicitudin quis scelerisque suscipit, convallis a lorem. Fusce ac tellus urna. Mauris sollicitudin libero non elit placerat non molestie arcu ullamcorper. Sed suscipit sapien nec ipsum dapibus tincidunt. Vivamus laoreet neque facilisis odio mattis porta. Morbi porta risus a neque accumsan rhoncus. Nam id enim fermentum mauris fermentum tincidunt in ut enim. Pellentesque tempus enim in massa accumsan quis porttitor ante bibendum. Quisque vel sodales sapien. Sed porta, risus ac iaculis euismod, purus massa vehicula purus, quis dapibus mauris diam rutrum enim. In hac habitasse platea dictumst.
03.06.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Help Homeowners Faced With Foreclosure March 6th, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today voted for legislation that will help millions of Americans who face the foreclosure of their homes. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act will allow families facing foreclosure to work with the courts and their lender to make their mortgage payments affordable and keep them in their homes. “The collapse of the subprime mortgage market has put millions of families in danger of losing their homes,” said Eshoo. “This bill will help those struggling to pay their mortgage in rough economic times, and will not cost the taxpayer a single dollar. The legislation will decrease the number of foreclosures by 20% and help put a floor on plummeting home prices.” The bill reforms the Hope for Homeowners Act by reducing fees and interest rates that prevented homeowners from taking advantage of mortgage refinancing under this program. It gives lenders the confidence to modify loans by protecting them from some lawsuits. As a last resort, the bill allows families to file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy and work with a judge and the lender to modify their mortgage so they can make affordable payments that reflect their current economic state. This legislation is supported by the AARP, Center for Responsible Lending, Consumers Union, Attorneys General of 21 states, Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, National Federation of Community Development Credit Unions, and National Fair Housing Alliance. The bill passed the House by a vote of 234 to 191. ###
03.05.2009	+ SHARE Prime Minister Gordon Brown’s speech to the U.S .Congress March 5th, 2009 On Wednesday, March 4th, Rep. Eshoo had the privilege to attend a joint session of Congress to hear the address of British Prime Minister Gordon Brown. The following is the text of his inspirational words that the Congresswoman wants to share with her constituents. *** ‘We should seize the moment – because never before have I seen a world so willing to come together’ With faith in the future, We can build tomorrow today Madam Speaker, Mr Vice-President, distinguished members of Congress, I come to this great capital of this great nation, an America renewed under a new President to say that America’s faith in the future has been, is and always will be an inspiration to the whole world. The very creation of America was a bold affirmation of faith in the future: a future you have not just believed in but built with your own hands. And on January 20th, you the American people began to write the latest chapter in the American story, with a transition of dignity, in which both sides of the aisle could take great pride. President Obama gave the world renewed hope, and on that day billions of people truly looked to Washington D.C as “a shining city upon a hill”. And I hope that you will allow me to single out for special mention today one of your most distinguished Senators, known in every continent and a great friend. Northern Ireland is today at peace, more Americans have health care, more children around the world are going to school, and for all those things we owe a great debt to the life and courage of, Senator Edward Kennedy. And so today, having talked to him last night, I want to announce that Her Majesty The Queen, has awarded an honorary Knighthood for Sir Edward Kennedy. Madam Speaker, Mr Vice-President, I come in friendship to renew, for new times, our special relationship founded upon our shared history, our shared values and, I believe, our shared futures. I grew up in the 1960s as America, led by President Kennedy, looked to the heavens and saw not the endless void of the unknown, but a new frontier to dare to discover and explore. People said it couldn’t be done – but America did it. And 20 years later, in the 1980’s, America led by President Reagan refused to accept the fate of millions trapped behind an Iron Curtain, and insisted instead that the people of Eastern Europe be allowed to join the ranks of nations which live safe, strong and free. People said it would never happen in our lifetime but it did, and the Berlin Wall was torn down brick by brick. So early in my life I came to understand that America is not just the indispensible nation, it is the irrepressible nation. Throughout your history Americans have led insurrections in the human imagination, have summoned revolutionary times through your belief that there is no such thing as an impossible endeavour. It is never possible to come here without having your faith in the future renewed. Throughout a whole century the American people stood liberty’s ground not just in one world war but in two. And I want you to know that we will never forget the sacrifice and service of the American soldiers who gave their lives for people whose names they never knew, and whose faces they never saw, and yet people who have lived in freedom thanks to the bravery and valour of the Americans who gave the “last full measure of devotion”. Cemetery after cemetery across Europe honours the memory of American soldiers, resting row upon row – often alongside comrades-in-arms from Britain. There is no battlefield of liberty on which there is not a piece of land that is marked out as American and there is no day of remembrance in Britain that is not also a commemoration of American courage and sacrifice far from home. In the hardest days of the last century, faith in the future kept America alive and I tell you that America kept faith in the future alive for all the world. Almost every family in Britain has a tie that binds them to America. So I want you to know that whenever a young American soldier or marine, sailor or airman is killed in conflict anywhere in the world, we, the people of Britain, grieve with you. Know that your loss is our loss; your families’ sorrow is our families’ sorrow and your nation’s determination is our nation’s determination that they shall not have died in vain. And let me pay tribute to the soldiers, yours and ours, who again fight side by side in the plains of Afghanistan and the streets of Iraq, just as their forefathers fought side by side in the sands of Tunisia, on the beaches of Normandy and then on the bridges over the Rhine. And after that terrible September morning when your homeland was attacked, the Coldstream Guards at Buckingham Palace played the Star Spangled Banner. Our own British tribute as we wept for our friends in the land of the free and the home of the brave. And let me promise you our continued support to ensure there is no hiding place for terrorists, no safe haven for terrorism. You should be proud that in the hard years since 2001 you have shown that while terrorists may destroy buildings and even, tragically, lives, they have not, and will not ever, destroy the American spirit. So let it be said of the friendship between our two countries; that it is in times of trial – true, in the face of fear – faithful and amidst the storms of change – constant. And let it be said of our friendship – formed and forged over two tumultuous centuries, a friendship tested in war and strengthened in peace – that it has not just endured but is renewed in each generation to better serve our shared values and fulfil the hopes and dreams of the day. Not an alliance of convenience, but a partnership of purpose. Alliances can wither or be destroyed, but partnerships of purpose are indestructible. Friendships can be shaken, but our friendship is unshakeable. Treaties can be broken but our partnership is unbreakable. And I know there is no power on earth than can drive us apart. We will work tirelessly with you as partners for peace in the Middle East: for a two state solution that provides for nothing less than a secure Israel safe within its borders existing side by side with a viable Palestinian state. And our shared message to Iran is simple – we are ready for you to rejoin the world community. But first, you must cease your threats and suspend your nuclear programme. And we will work tirelessly with all those in the international community who are ready to reduce the threat of nuclear proliferation. Past British Prime Ministers have travelled to this Capitol building in times of war to talk of war. I come now to talk of new and different battles we must fight together; to speak of a global economy in crisis and a planet imperilled. These are new priorities for our new times. And let us be honest – tonight too many parents, after they put their children to bed, will speak of their worries about losing their jobs or the need to sell the house. Too many will share stories of friends or neighbours already packing up their homes, and too many will talk of a local store or business that has already gone to the wall. For me, this global recession is not to be measured just in statistics, or in graphs or in figures on a balance sheet. Instead I see one individual with their own aspirations and increasingly their own apprehensions, and then another, and then another. Each with their own stars to reach for. Each part of a family, each at the heart of a community now in need of help and hope. And when banks have failed and markets have faltered, we the representatives of the people have to be the people’s last line of defence. And that’s why there is no financial orthodoxy so entrenched, no conventional thinking so engrained, no special interest so strong that it should ever stand in the way of the change that hard-working families need. We have learned through this world downturn that markets should be free but never values-free, that the risks people take should never be separated from the responsibilities they meet. And if perhaps some once thought it beyond our power to shape global markets to meet the needs of people, we know now that is our duty; we cannot and must not stand aside. In our families and workplaces and places of worship, we celebrate men and women of integrity who work hard, treat people fairly, take responsibility and look out for others. If these are the principles we live by in our families and neighbourhoods, they should also be the principles that guide and govern our economic life too. In these days the world has learned that what makes for the good economy makes for the good society. My father was a Minister of the church and I have learned again what I was taught by him: that wealth must help more than the wealthy, good fortune must serve more than the fortunate and riches must enrich not just some of us but all. And these enduring values are the values we need for these new times. We tend to think of the sweep of destiny as stretching across many months and years before culminating in decisive moments we call history. But sometimes the reality is that defining moments of history come suddenly and without warning. And the task of leadership then is to define them, shape them and move forward into the new world they demand. An economic hurricane has swept the world, creating a crisis of credit and of confidence. History has brought us now to a point where change is essential. We are summoned not just to manage our times but to transform them. Our task is to rebuild prosperity and security in a wholly different economic world, where competition is no longer local but global and banks are no longer just national but international. And we need to understand what went wrong in this crisis, that the very financial instruments that were designed to diversify risk across the banking system instead spread contagion across the globe. And today’s financial institutions are so interwoven that a bad bank anywhere is a threat to good banks everywhere. So should we succumb to a race to the bottom and a protectionism that history tells us that, in the end, protects no-one? No. We should have the confidence that we can seize the opportunities ahead and make the future work for us. Why? Because while today people are anxious and feel insecure, over the next two decades literally billions of people in other continents will move from being simply producers of their goods to being consumers of our goods and in this way our world economy will double in size. Twice as many opportunities for business, twice as much prosperity, and the biggest expansion of middle class incomes and jobs the world has ever seen. And America and Britain will succeed and lead if we tap into the talents of our people, unleash the genius of our scientists and set free the drive of our entrepreneurs. We will win the race to the top if we can develop the new high value products and services and the new green technologies that the rising numbers of hard-working families across our globe will want to buy. So we must educate our way out of the downturn, invest and invent our way out of the downturn and re-tool and re-skill our way out of the downturn. And this is not blind optimism or synthetic confidence to console people; it is the practical affirmation for our times of our faith in a better future. Every time we rebuild a school we demonstrate our faith in the future. Every time we send more young people to university, every time we invest more in our new digital infrastructure, every time we increase support to our scientists, we demonstrate our faith in the future. And so I say to this Congress and this country, something that runs deep in your character and is woven in your history, we conquer our fear of the future through our faith in the future. And it is this faith in the future that means we must commit to protecting the planet for generations that will come long after us. As the Greek proverb says, why does anybody plant the seeds of a tree whose shade they will never see? The answer is because they look to the future. And I believe that you, the nation that had the vision to put a man on the moon, are also the nation with the vision to protect and preserve our planet earth. And it is only by investing in environmental technology that we can end the dictatorship of oil, and it is only by tackling climate change that we create the millions of new green jobs we need. For the lesson of this crisis is that we cannot just wait for tomorrow today. We cannot just think of tomorrow today. We cannot merely plan for tomorrow today. Our task must be to build tomorrow today. And America knows from its history that its reach goes far beyond its geography. For a century you have carried upon your shoulders the greatest of responsibilities: to work with and for the rest of the world. And let me tell you that now more than ever the rest of the world wants to work with you. And if these times have shown us anything it is that the major challenges we all face are global. No matter where it starts, an economic crisis does not stop at the water’s edge. It ripples across the world. Climate change does not honour passport control. Terrorism has no respect for borders. And modern communications instantly span every continent. The new frontier is that there is no frontier, the new shared truth is that global problems need global solutions. And let me say that you now have the most pro-American European leadership in living memory. A leadership that wants to cooperate more closely together, in order to cooperate more closely with you. There is no old Europe, no new Europe, there is only your friend Europe. So once again I say we should seize the moment – because never before have I seen a world so willing to come together. Never before has that been more needed. And never before have the benefits of cooperation been so far-reaching. So when people here and in other countries ask what more can we do now to bring an end to this downturn, let me say this: we can achieve more working together. And just think of what we can do if we combine not just in a partnership for security but in a new partnership for prosperity too. On jobs, you the American people through your stimulus proposals could create or save at least 3 million jobs. We in Britain are acting with similar determination. How much nearer an end to this downturn would we be if the whole of the world resolved to do the same? And you are also restructuring your banks. So are we. But how much safer would everybody’s savings be if the whole world finally came together to outlaw shadow banking systems and offshore tax havens? Just think how each of our actions, if combined, could mean a whole, much greater than the sum of the parts – all and not just some banks stabilised – on fiscal stimulus: the impact multiplied because everybody does it – rising demand in all our countries creating jobs in each of our countries – and trade once again the engine of prosperity, the wealth of nations restored. No one should forget that it was American visionaries who over half a century ago, coming out of the deepest of depressions and the worst of wars, produced the boldest of plans for global economic cooperation because they recognised prosperity was indivisible and concluded that to be sustained it had to be shared. And I believe that ours too is a time for renewal, for a plan for tackling recession and building for the future. Every continent playing their part in a global new deal, a plan for prosperity that can benefit us all. First, so that the whole of the worldwide banking system serves our prosperity rather than risks it, let us agree rules and standards for accountability, transparency, and reward that will mean an end to the excesses and will apply to every bank, everywhere, and all the time. Second, America and a few countries cannot be expected to bear the burden of the fiscal and interest rate stimulus alone. We must share it globally. So let us work together for the worldwide reduction of interest rates and a scale of stimulus round the world equal to the depth of the recession and the dimensions of the recovery we must make. Third, let us together renew our international economic cooperation, helping the emerging markets rebuild their banks. And let us work together for a low carbon recovery worldwide. And I am confident that this President, this Congress and the peoples of the world can come together in Copenhagen this December to reach a historic agreement on climate change. And let us not forget the poorest. As we strive to spread the values of peace, political liberty, and the hope for better lives across the world, perhaps the greatest gift our generation could give to the future, the gift of America and Britain to the world could be, for every child in every country of the world, the chance millions do not have today; the chance to go to school. For let us remember there is a common bond that unites us as human beings across different beliefs, cultures and nationalities. It is at the core of my convictions, the essence of America’s spirit and the heart of all faiths. And it must be at the centre of our response to the crisis of today. At their best, our values tell us that we cannot be wholly content while others go without, cannot be fully comfortable while millions go without comfort, cannot be truly happy while others grieve alone. And this too is true. All of us know that in a recession the wealthiest, the most powerful and the most privileged can find a way through for themselves. So we do not value the wealthy less when we say that our first duty is to help the not so wealthy. We do not value the powerful less when we say that our first responsibility is to help the powerless. And we do not value those who are secure less when we say that our first priority must be to help the insecure. These recent events have forced us all to think anew. And while I have learnt many things, I keep returning to something I first learned in my father’s church as a child. In this most modern of crises I am drawn to the most ancient of truths; wherever there is hardship, wherever there is suffering, we cannot, we will not, pass by on the other side. But working together there is no challenge to which we are not equal, no obstacle that we cannot overcome, no aspiration so high that it cannot be achieved. In the depths of the Depression, when Franklin Roosevelt did battle with fear itself, it was not simply by the power of his words, his personality and his example that he triumphed. Yes, all these things mattered. But what mattered more was this enduring truth: that you, the American people, at your core, were, as you remain, every bit as optimistic as your Roosevelts, your Reagans and your Obamas. This is the faith in the future that has always been the story and promise of America. So at this defining moment in history let us renew our special relationship for our generation and our times. Let us restore prosperity and protect this planet and, with faith in the future, let us together build tomorrow today. ###
03.05.2009	+ SHARE Healthy Americans Act Will Save Billions in Health Care Costs March 5th, 2009 Reps. Eshoo, Emerson, Cooper, Castle, Wasserman Schultz, and Harman Introduce Bill to Fix Broken U.S. Health Care System Washington, D.C. -Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA), Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), Jim Cooper (D-TN), Mike Castle (R-DE), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL), and Jane Harman (D-CA) introduced the Healthy Americans Act (H.R. 1321), legislation to provide affordable health care coverage for all Americans. Health care spending in the U.S. is increasing at a rate that is double that of inflation, with over two trillion dollars spent in 2008 alone. The Healthy Americans Act ensures that every American will be able to afford quality, private health insurance. It gives Americans a choice in where they get their care. It makes health care portable, so a job loss doesn’t mean the loss of health insurance. It promotes prevention and wellness, and reforms the insurance market so that insurers are forced to compete on price, benefits, and quality. All this has been scored by the Congressional Budget Office to be budget neutral by 2014. “The Healthy Americans Act will create a comprehensive health care plan that will cover every American for less than we spend on health care today,” said Eshoo. “In a country as wealthy in research, talent, and resources as the United States, it’s unacceptable that our health care system ranks dead last among other major industrialized nations for quality, access, and efficiency.” “The Healthy Americans Act is a bipartisan indication that we are taking the issue of health care reform seriously in Congress. The model of health insurance coverage in place isn’t working for millions of American families. We obviously need reform, and I think this legislation includes the good ideas that ought to at least inform a meaningful debate in which every member of Congress should participate. We all represent Americans who lack health insurance, and we all bear the obligation to improve the system,” said Emerson. “Record numbers of Americans are finding themselves out of work this year, which means they’re finding themselves out of health care too,” said Cooper. “You couldn’t have a clearer wake-up call: we need to reform our antiquated health care system so all Americans have affordable coverage. The Healthy Americans Act is bipartisan, it saves us money and it lets every American choose a plan with the same level of benefits I get as a member of Congress. Americans can’t wait for us to study the issue any longer. We should build off of this consensus bill and pass health reform now.” “By providing coverage for all Americans with market-driven health care choices like those that members of Congress have today, HAA is a starting point for the debate on how best to reform a crumbling system,” said Castle. “The bipartisan and bicameral support for HAA signals a commitment to prioritizing reform that ensures better access and quality in our health care system, improves individuals’ health, and lowers U.S. health care costs.” “It’s estimated that thousands of Americans die every year because millions of people don’t have health insurance,” said Wasserman Schultz. “This landmark legislation guarantees affordable, private health care for all Americans, saving not only money, but lives.” “As the daughter and sister of medical doctors, I’ve seen the best and worst of the US healthcare system. Now, as more Americans are losing their jobs and forced to cut essential expenses, the moment couldn’t be riper for universal coverage that is both comprehensive and affordable,” said Harman. “I look forward to working with my congressional colleagues and the Obama Administration on finally getting this right.” The Healthy Americans Act will pay for itself by eliminating administrative costs and reforming an outdated tax code that gives businesses write offs for even the most expensive health plans. Individuals and families will get a tax credit to purchase insurance and will be provided subsidies so that all Americans can afford coverage, regardless of their income. ###
02.27.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Reversal of Ban on Media Coverage of Soldiers’ Coffins February 27th, 2009 Thursday, February 26, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today after Defense Secretary Robert Gates announced an end to the ban on media coverage of returning military coffins. “President Obama and Secretary Gates’ decision to reverse the ban on media coverage of the returning remains of our nation’s heroes is highly commendable and long overdue. Our remembrance of them should be made visible to every American. My friend and constituent Karen Meredith, a Gold Star Mother, has dedicated herself to reversing the ban in honor of her decorated son, First Lieutenant Kenneth Ballard, who was killed in Iraq in 2004.” ###
02.27.2009	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo and Upton Introduce Arthritis Prevention Bill February 27th, 2009 Thursday, February 26, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA ) and Fred Upton (R-MI) introduced a bill today to address the nearly one in five adults and 300,000 children in America who suffer from arthritis. The Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act will make landmark investments in research and support services for those suffering from the disease.” Arthritis is already the leading cause of disability in the United States,” said Eshoo. “Many of those suffering are not receiving the care or the basic information they need to manage the disease. My legislation will help the millions of Americans with arthritis and other rheumatic diseases by helping to treat, cure, and ultimately prevent the disease that diminishes their quality of life and affects the lives of their caregivers and families.” “This important legislation takes the offensive in our effort to provide relief to the 46 million children and adults who suffer from arthritis each day,” said Upton. “We cannot be complacent – few realize arthritis is the leading cause of disability in the United States, inflicting severe, debilitating pain for one out of every five adults. We are long overdue in finding a cure for arthritis, and this measure will boost the scientific research needed to conquer this disease.” The bill enhances the National Arthritis Action Plan by supporting federal, state, and private arthritis prevention and management efforts. It also focuses attention on juvenile arthritis research by creating a juvenile arthritis population-based database and establishes education loan repayment and career development award programs to encourage more health professionals to enter the field of pediatric rheumatology. With more than 300,000 children suffering from pediatric arthritis in the United States, there are approximately only 200 pediatric rheumatologists in the country to treat them. There are nine states without even one doctor to diagnose and treat these children. “The foundation of this bill is loan repayment to physicians who agree to practice pediatric rheumatology in underserved areas. Children should not have to fly or drive hours and hours to see their doctor. This bill addresses this critical shortfall in care,” said Eshoo. Eshoo introduced the bill in the last Congress and it enjoys the support of the Arthritis Foundation, the American College of Rheumatology, and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
02.24.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Bill to Improve Medicaid Coverage for Alopecia Areata February 24th, 2009 Tuesday, February 24, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Alopecia Areata Medicaid Improvement and Parity Act, which will improve Medicaid coverage for those affected by Alopecia Areata. Alopecia Areata is an autoimmune disorder that results in the loss of body hair. Most Americans suffer from mild forms of the condition, but approximately 30,000 have Alopecia Areata Universalis or Totalis-complete loss of all body hair. There is no known cure for the disease and very few treatments are successful. “This legislation will improve the quality of life for the thousands of people who suffer from Alopecia. We can’t allow Americans who are suffering from the disease to continue enduring harassment and mistreatment because of the inadequate coverage by Medicaid,” said Eshoo. H.R. 1142 will improve Medicaid coverage for those suffering with the disease by reimbursing for one hair prosthesis a year. Based on these criteria, it is estimated that 5,000 of the nearly 50 million Medicaid beneficiaries will qualify for this assistance. ###
02.14.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act February 14th, 2009 Friday, February 13, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today voted for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Conference Report, legislation that will stimulate the economy by creating and saving millions of jobs, and provide an immediate tax cut to 95% of American workers. The bill makes targeted investments in key industries to shore up the American economy and transform it for future generations. “Today the American people and people around the world can take heart that our nation is acting to reverse course and begin the difficult work of rebuilding our economy, our infrastructure, and our confidence in our country’s future.,” said Eshoo. “This legislation responds to the pressing needs of today, creating and saving 3.5 million jobs by rebuilding America through new investments in roads, bridges, mass transit, energy efficient buildings, flood control, clean water projects, school construction, and other infrastructure projects.” The final House-Senate conference agreement of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will make investments to improve American competitiveness and establish energy independence. The bill includes $15 billion investments in science and innovation, an effort led by Rep. Eshoo to include these funds in the final version of the bill. These investments in basic science and research will provide the keys to new American-made technology, preventing and treating disease, and tackling urgent national challenges like climate change and dependence on foreign oil. To achieve energy independence, the bill will invest $30 billion in energy programs such as a new, smart power grid, advanced battery technology, and energy efficiency measures, plus another $20 billion in tax incentives for renewable energy and energy efficiency. The bill will also provide direct aid to states to prevent the discontinuation of critical state programs at a time when people need them most. According to the Federal Funds Information for States, California will receive $26 billion in economic recovery funding, which includes $6 billion for a State Fiscal Stabilization Fund. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act will also create or retain nearly 400,000 jobs in the state, including 7,500 jobs in the 14th Congressional District. “This economic recovery package is a bill filled with hope and belief – hope that the danger of the current crisis will be averted, new jobs will be created, and old jobs will be restored so that people will once again enjoy the dignity of a day’s work, and a belief that we recognize this opportunity to reinvigorate the great innovative spirit of our country that we love so much.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act passed by a vote of 246-183. To see Rep. Eshoo’s floor statement, click here . ###
02.14.2009	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Langevin, and Senators Dorgan and Snowe Introduce Bill to Raise Lifetime Insurance Caps February 14th, 2009 Friday, February 13, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Jim Langevin (D-RI) and Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced the Health Insurance Coverage Protection Act, a bill that will raise lifetime health insurance caps to $10 million. This is the second Congress that Rep. Eshoo and Senator Dorgan have introduced this legislation. Most people are unaware that their health insurance could expire when their healthcare costs have totaled a certain amount. More than half of all private health insurance policies in the U.S. have lifetime caps on benefits– once the cap is reached, these individuals are released from their healthcare plans and have few good options. They are forced to pay their health expenses out of pocket, spend down their assets to qualify for Medicaid, or try to seek free care from hospitals or other providers. This is a life-threatening problem for those who have disabilities or chronic illnesses. “This bill addresses a critical lack of coverage for those with disabilities or chronic illnesses,” said Eshoo. “It’s a travesty to think that people are job-hopping in order to switch insurance plans or quitting their job all together to access Medicaid. Increasing the minimum lifetime cap will result in a net savings for federal and state governments because individuals with high medical costs can maintain private health insurance. As medical treatment costs continue to increase, the issue of lifetime insurance maximums will become even more important. This legislation will protect individuals who are struggling to pay for the expensive medical treatments that are a result of a disability or chronic illness.” “As Co-Chair of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus, I have been troubled by too many stories of families that face financial ruin because their medical bills exceed the lifetime cap on their insurance policy,” said Langevin. “However, this is not just an issue that affects people with chronic and disabling conditions. Health care costs are rising for everyone, and in these challenging economic times it is more important than ever that lifetime insurance caps accurately reflect the costs of care in this country.” “Having an inadequate lifetime cap defeats the purpose of health insurance and forces those with disabilities and chronic illnesses into an impossible situation,” said Dorgan. “Low caps also end up costing the taxpayer because once people with illnesses hit their cap, they often turn to government programs for their care. This legislation will raise lifetime insurance caps and allow those with illnesses to focus on recovering – not worrying about how they are going to pay for their treatment.” “Low lifetime caps can mean financial disaster for people with chronic illnesses,” Senator Snowe said. “Overly restrictive lifetime caps on benefits can cause everyday Americans to go bankrupt and ultimately shift their health care costs to public programs, such as Medicaid. This legislation will provide the immediate financial and psychological relief to families who struggle to access healthcare in the midst of an expensive and life-threatening medical crisis.” ###
02.12.2009	+ SHARE Op-Ed: Science projects would boost ailing economy now February 12th, 2009 Thursday, February 12, 2009 Reps. Eshoo and Holt co-authored an op-ed in The Hill on the importance of science funding in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. To see the op-ed, click here.
02.05.2009	+ SHARE Editorial: A ‘down payment’ on health February 5th, 2009 The San Francisco Chronicle published an editorial applauding the reauthorization of the State Children’s Health Insurance Program. To see the editorial, click here .
02.04.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Postpone DTV Transition and Fix Coupon Program February 4th, 2009 Wednesday, February 4, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo today voted to postpone the date of the Digital Television (DTV) Transition to ensure that more households will be prepared for the switch. The DTV Delay Act pushes the deadline for terminating analog television broadcasts back approximately four months to June 12th and adds needed fixes to the DTV coupon program. “It’s become unfortunately clear that we are unprepared to transition to digital television on February 17th,” said Eshoo. “Nearly 6.5 million households are unprepared for the DTV transition and over 2 million coupons representing 1.2 million households are on a ‘waiting list’ that cannot be cleared before the February transition date, including 2,346 in the 14th Congressional District.” The DTV coupon program, which allows households to receive up to two $40 coupons to defray the cost of a converter box, ran up against its funding limit and stopped issuing coupons in early January. The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), which runs the coupon program, began a waiting list for consumers which quickly grew into the millions. Currently, the NTIA can only issue coupons to those on the waiting list as the coupons currently in circulation expire. “This bill will cure the major problems of the coupon program by clearing the backlog of consumers waiting for coupons, sending the coupons via first class mail and allowing consumers to reapply if their coupon has expired,” said Eshoo.Once completed, the DTV transition will improve picture quality for consumers and free up airwaves for public safety and new wireless broadband services. To see video of Rep. Eshoo’s remarks, click here . ###
02.04.2009	+ SHARE House Passes Critical Children’s Healthcare Legislation February 4th, 2009 Wednesday, February 4, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted for House passage of H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (SCHIP) to provide health insurance to 11 million low-income children. The bill the House passed today is expected to be signed into law this evening “After years of vetoes by President Bush, it is extremely gratifying to see legislation enacted to ensure healthcare for 11 million children in our country,” said Eshoo. “With rising unemployment rates, the loss of healthcare coverage for American families is devastating. In California alone, the SCHIP program is adding 30,000 new enrollees each month. In rough economic times, this bill will make sure that healthcare is provided to those who need it most.” SCHIP of 2009 will reauthorize the national children’s healthcare program for 5 years and cover 4 million additional children, including nearly 700,000 additional children in California. The legislation invests $32 billion over 5 years and is fully paid for by a tobacco tax, adding nothing to the federal debt. “We will not have healthy adults in our country unless we have healthy children. Providing health coverage for children is not only the right thing to do-it’s more cost-effective for taxpayers than using the emergency room as a primary healthcare provider.” The House approved H.R. 2 by a bipartisan vote of 290 to 135. Eshoo, a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, has been a champion of the SCHIP since Congress established the landmark program in 1997. To see a video of Rep. Eshoo’s remarks, click here . ###
01.29.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Create Jobs and Jumpstart American Economy January 29th, 2009 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) voted today for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, legislation which will create and save 3 to 4 million jobs and jumpstart the American economy with a $550 billion investment in targeted priorities and $275 billion in economic recovery tax cuts. “Credit markets are frozen, consumer purchasing power is in decline, and in the last four months we’ve lost nearly 2 million jobs, with another 3 to 5 million likely to disappear in the coming months. This bill is the first crucial step in a concerted effort to rebuild the American economy, making us more globally competitive and energy independent, and transforming our economy for long-term growth,” said Eshoo. The bill passed by the House today will create jobs and grow the economy by doubling renewable energy production, rebuilding crumbling roads, bridges, and schools, building 21st Century classrooms to help our children and workers succeed in a global economy, and investing in research and development to secure America’s role as a world leader in a competitive global economy. The bill will also protect vital services, such as law enforcement, education, and healthcare. “This legislation does more than create jobs and stimulate the economy. It invests $6 billion in broadband grants to elevate us from 16th in the world in broadband quality, behind countries like Slovenia, Latvia, and Denmark,” said Eshoo. “It invests $20 billion in Health Information Technology (HIT) to enhance patient safety, reduce medical errors, improve the quality of care, and importantly, reduce healthcare costs. The bill puts us on a path toward energy independence by making critical investments in the implementation of Smart Grid projects and promoting renewable energy research.” California is projected to receive over $32 billion in economic recovery funding under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Nearly $8 billion of this would go to the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund and more than $11 billion would go to increased Medi-Cal assistance for low-income families. ###
01.29.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act January 29th, 2009 Wednesday, January 28, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) continued the fight today against one of the nation’s leading cancer killers, Pancreatic Cancer. The Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act will establish a National Pancreatic Cancer Initiative to provide a greater focus on the disease and give the National Cancer Institute the necessary tools to discover ways to diagnose and treat pancreatic cancer in its early stages, and to one day prevent it. This is the second Congress Rep. Eshoo has introduced the legislation. “For too many people, pancreatic cancer is a death sentence,” said Eshoo. “We need to invest in research and early diagnosis of the disease. This legislation has the potential to make great strides in the direction of prevention and early diagnosis and we owe it to the thousands of Americans suffering from pancreatic cancer today as well as those who lost their lives to it.” More than 37,000 Americans will be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer this year and 75% of them will die within a year of the diagnosis. Pancreatic cancer remains one of the most lethal and overlooked types of cancer. As the overall mortality rate for other types of cancer in America has declined, the number of Americans dying from pancreatic cancer has increased. The Pancreatic Cancer Research and Education Act will provide renewed focus on research of the disease in addition to creating a National Pancreatic Cancer Initiative. The National Pancreatic Cancer Initiative will help to identify the research priorities, infrastructure needs, and workforce training requirements that are needed to make progress in pancreatic cancer research. ###
01.28.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Broadband Bonds Legislation January 28th, 2009 Wednesday, January 28, 2009 Rep. Eshoo Introduces Broadband Bonds LegislationBill Will Create Jobs and Spur Broadband Deployment Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) introduced the Advanced Broadband Infrastructure Bond Initiative Act, which will create one million new jobs and spur the deployment of advanced broadband networks throughout the U.S. “This week, the American economy lost over 70,000 jobs. We must act to generate jobs and jump-start the economy,” said Eshoo. “The inclusion of broadband investment in the recovery package is a good first step, but we can do better.” A recent Reuters/Cisco report ranked the United States 16th in the world in broadband quality, just ahead of Russia, but behind Slovenia, Latvia, Lithuania, Japan, and Korea. This legislation will create broadband bonds for investing billions of public and private capital in the most advanced broadband networks, returning the country that invented the Internet to a leadership position in communications. “Congress passed the Pacific Railway Act of 1862 which enabled the issuance of low-interest railroad bonds to finance the construction of the transcontinental railroad. Our national broadband infrastructure is the 21st Century equivalent to the railroad network that was constructed with government financing. Investing in broadband is investing in the future of our economy. My bill will spur investment in advanced broadband networks which will create thousands of new jobs and upgrade our lagging broadband infrastructure to make our country more competitive,” said Eshoo. A recent study by the Fiber-to-the-Home Council found that an investment of $30 billion in this broadband bond proposal would have a large impact on the economy, generating more than $30 billion in new investment in next generation broadband infrastructure and more than $100 billion in additional GDP over the next three years, and directly creating approximately 1 million new jobs over three years. ###
01.26.2009	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Obama Administration Reconsideration of California Emissions Waiver January 26th, 2009 Monday, January 26, 2009 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D- Palo Alto), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Barack Obama’s announcement that he will instruct the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to review the Bush Administration’s rejection of a waiver for California’s efforts to cut greenhouse gas emissions by mandating more fuel efficient cars. “California has always led the nation in promoting a cleaner environment and addressing climate change, but over the last eight years our efforts have been thwarted by an Administration beholden to the oil and gas industry. I’m highly pleased that President Obama has taken immediate action to remedy the Bush Administration’s denial of the Clean Air Act waiver for California’s greenhouse gas emissions law. Once the EPA reconsiders this waiver, California, the 13 other states that have also adopted strong emissions standards, plus the several states that indicated they would follow California’s lead if they received the waiver, will finally be able to take real action on climate change.” ###
01.23.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President Obama’s Executive Orders to Close Guantanamo Detention Facilities January 23rd, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement after President Barack Obama signed executive orders to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities within one year, as well as end the use of extreme interrogation methods, such as waterboarding. The executive orders implement many provisions of the Lawful Interrogation and Detention Act of 2009, which Rep. Eshoo introduced this month. “I applaud President Obama’s executive orders today on interrogation and detention. It is time now to restore our image abroad and support the rule of law our nation was founded on. I was the author of the Lawful Interrogation and Detention Act of 2009 earlier this year, which calls for the closure of the Guantanamo Bay detention facilities and for ending the extreme interrogation methods that have harmed U.S. efforts at home and abroad. My legislation also prohibits the CIA from using private contractors to conduct interrogations of detainees and provides the International Committee of The Red Cross with access to detainees. “These orders are the clearest statement that America is a nation that respects the rule of law and the dignity of humankind. I look forward to working with President Obama to ensure that these policies are implemented effectively.” ###
01.23.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Reform Security Clearance System January 23rd, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) has introduced legislation that will improve and reform the clearance process that national security professionals undergo in order to protect our country. Today, the number of federal employees and contractors holding clearances has grown to two and a half million, overloading the clearance system and creating tremendous backlogs. The security clearance process is a foundation of our national security establishment, and it has to work efficiently and effectively. A strong security clearance system keeps out those who pose a security risk while quickly identifying those who are trustworthy to work in the system. This legislation will get our clearance program back on track by ensuring accountability and best practices,” said Rep. Eshoo. The Intelligence Community Management Subcommittee, led by Rep. Eshoo in the last Congress, identified several problems with the security clearance system while completing a thorough review of the clearance process last year. The reforms contained in the Security Clearance Oversight and Accountability Act will address these shortcomings by requiring agencies to report annually to Congress on certain metrics related to the security clearance process. Where these metrics are inadequate or nonexistent, the bill requires the Administration to propose new metrics to Congress. Underscoring the need for action, the Government Accountability Office today included the Department of Defense personnel security program in its 2009 High Risk Series, which highlights major program challenges that are impeding effective government and costing billions of dollars each year. The original sponsors of the bill introduced today are Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Rep. Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA). ###
01.14.2009	+ SHARE House Passes Crucial Children’s Healthcare Legislation January 14th, 2009 Wednesday, January 14, 2009 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted for House passage of H.R. 2, the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2009 (SCHIP) to provide health insurance to 11 million low-income children. The legislation passed the House twice last year and was vetoed twice by President Bush. “As a society we have a collective responsibility to our most innocent population. Our nation’s children deserve access to the most basic needs, education and healthcare, regardless of what their parents can afford. With a new Administration comes the golden opportunity to address healthcare for the children of our country.” SCHIP of 2009 will reauthorize the national children’s healthcare program for 5 years and cover 4 million additional children, including dental care and mental health services. The legislation invests $32 billion over 5 years and is fully paid for, adding nothing to the federal debt. “Covering more eligible children is not only the right thing to do – it’s also much more cost-effective for children to receive preventative care and regular checkups rather than going to the emergency room whenever there’s a problem. “With rising unemployment rates, the loss of health coverage for American families is staggering, and SCHIP will reach those who need it most. This is a huge victory for our children and our country.” The House approved H.R. 2 by a bipartisan vote of 289 to 139. Eshoo, a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, has been a champion of the SCHIP since Congress established the landmark program in 1997. To see Rep. Eshoo speak on the House floor in support of the bill, click here . For a transcript of Rep. Eshoo’s remarks, click here . ### {sharethis}
01.09.2009	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Close Guantanamo Bay Detention Facilities and Ban Extreme Torture Methods January 9th, 2009 Washington, DC – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced abill that will provide for a legal, effective, and humane system ofgathering intelligence and holding suspected terrorists. Thelegislation will require the closure of the detention facilities atGuantanamo and require the CIA and all other intelligence agencies touse the 19 specific interrogation techniques that are authorized by theArmy Field Manual on Human Intelligence Collector Operations. “This legislation protects our country and U.S. servicemen abroad bybanning the use of cruel and inhumane interrogation methods and closingthe detention facilities at Guantanamo Bay. For years the documentedreports of detainee abuses at Guantanamo have undermined U.S. effortsat home and abroad. The bill also incorporates legislation that Iintroduced in the last Congress that bans extreme interrogationmethods, such as waterboarding,” said Eshoo. The Lawful Interrogation and Detention Act of 2009 will: • Require the closure of the detention facilities at Guantanamo withinone year. All individuals held at Guantanamo must be: o Charged with crimes and tried in the United States through thefederal criminal justice or the military justice system;o Transferred to an international tribunal, if one has jurisdiction tohold trials for such individuals; o Transferred back to their native country or to the custody of anothercountry; o If the other options can’t be followed and the individual isdetermined to pose no security threat, released; oro Held in accordance with the law of armed conflict. • Require the CIA and all other intelligence agencies to use only the19 specific interrogation techniques that are authorized by the ArmyField Manual on Human Intelligence Collector Operations. Thisrequirement would put intelligence interrogations under the same legalrequirement for all Department of Defense agencies, thus creating aclear, single standard across the U.S. Government; • Prohibit the CIA from using private contractors to conductinterrogations of detainees; and • Require the intelligence community to notify the InternationalCommittee of the Red Cross (ICRC) of any detainees being held, and toprovide the ICRC with access to those detainees. The original sponsors of the bill introduced today are Rep. Anna Eshoo(D-CA), Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), andJudiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers (D-MI). Companion legislationwas introduced this week in the Senate by Senator Dianne Feinstein(D-CA). ###
12.11.2008	+ SHARE House Passes Legislation to Rescue and Restructure American Auto Industry December 11th, 2008 December 11, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D- Palo Alto) released the following statement after the House approved a $14 billion bridge loan for General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler. The bipartisan legislation that passed the House today authorizes up to $14 billion in emergency bridge loan relief to the struggling American automakers. “I voted ‘yes’ today because I believe that the stakes are too high for our economy to not do anything,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Without the bridge loan to the American automakers, we will put the jobs of millions of Americans at risk and impose further strife on our economy. Their failure would reverberate far beyond the manufacturing sector and a bridge loan to keep these companies viable while they restructure is necessary to protect the economy in this financial crisis. “The ‘Detroit 3’ automakers have made numerous bad decisions in the past and no one has been more critical of them than I have. They have driven their companies looking through a rearview mirror and thought they saw the future. But allowing them to fail would cause a chain of events felt well beyond Detroit. A shutdown of the auto industry would have a catastrophic affect on an economy that is already in historic distress. That’s why prudent steps must be taken to prevent this from happening.” The legislation mandates the appointment of a ‘Car Czar’ to oversee the disbursement of funds and evaluate the automakers’ restructuring plans. The bill requires immediate repayment of the loan if a company has not made adequate progress in implementing a restructuring plan to achieve viability, international competitiveness, fuel efficiency, and reduced emissions. H.R. 7321, the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act, passed the House today by a vote of 237-170. ###
11.27.2008	+ SHARE India Terror Attacks Information Hotline November 27th, 2008 U.S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE For Immediate Release November 26, 2008 Consular Call Center Americans who have reason to believe that a relative or friend has been affected by the attacks in Mumbai, India should call: 1-888-407-4747. # # #
11.24.2008	+ SHARE Press Releases November 24th, 2008
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Around the world, revelers greet New Year with fireworks, singing, dancing November 12th, 2008 PARIS: From New York to Baghdad to Sydney, New Year's revelers welcomed 2008 with parties, fireworks and hopes for peace and prosperity. But reminders of violence were apparent as security was tightened in many nations. Fireworks were canceled in downtown Brussels, Belgium, where police detained 14 people Dec. 21 suspected of plotting to help an accused al-Qaida militant break out of jail. Festivities in Paris centered on the famous Champs-Elysees avenue and the Eiffel Tower, where about 4,500 police and 140 rescue officials patrolled the streets. In Thailand, an army spokesman said he believed that five bombs set off by suspected Muslim insurgents in a Thai-Malaysian border tourist town likely targeted New Year's revelers. The bombs, which wounded 27 people, exploded in the hotel and nightlife quarter of Sungai Kolok, spokesman Col. Akara Thiprote said. Baghdad witnessed something Iraq had not seen since before the invasion of 2003 — people publicly partying to welcome in a new year. The ballrooms of two landmark hotels — the Palestine and the Sheraton — were full of people for New Year's Eve celebrations. After years of car bombings, mortar fire and suicide attacks, Iraq's capital was sufficiently calm to warrant the two high-end parties in the once-posh hotels. Several European countries rang in the new year with new habits. The smoke-filled cafe became a thing of memory in France. Following up on a ban last year on smoking in many indoor locations, cigarettes were prohibited in dance clubs, restaurants, hotels, casinos and cafes. Fabienne Simon, a 27-year-old smoker, said the ban was "not that bad." "There is nothing better than to go to a nightclub, a coffee place where there are no cigarettes," she said. "You come out, it's great, you aren't smelling of cigarettes." Two European Union newcomers, Cyprus and Malta, started using the euro at the stroke of midnight. The Mediterranean islands, both former British colonies, were scrapping the Cyprus pound and Maltese lira to bring the number of countries using the shared currency to 15. In France, President Nicolas Sarkozy gave the first traditional New Year's greeting of his presidency, with a "message of hope, faith in life and in the future." In Russia, Vladimir Putin delivered the last New Year's Eve address of his eight-year presidency, boasting of economic improvements and claiming to have restored a sense of unity among Russians, who are likely to see him stay in power as prime minister after he steps down in a few months. In Moscow, thousands gathered in Red Square, watching a concert beneath the colorful onion domes of St. Basil's Cathedral, and fireworks above. An ailing Fidel Castro saluted the Cuban people for their "50 years of resistance" against the United States in a message that was read on state television. Though Cuba will mark the 50th anniversary of the Jan. 1, 1959, revolution that brought Castro to power a year from now, it is characterizing all of 2008 leading up to that date as the "50th year of the revolution." Along with the innovations, old traditions were maintained. More than a million revelers in New York's Times Square cheered at the 100th drop of a giant ball. A century ago the tradition began with a 700-pound ball of wood and iron, lit with 100 25-watt incandescent bulbs. This year's event featured an energy-efficient sphere clad in Waterford crystals, with 9,576 light-emitting diodes that generated a kaleidoscope of colors. In London, people gathered in Trafalgar Square and along the banks of the River Thames to watch a fireworks display and hear Big Ben — Parliament's iconic bell — welcome the New Year with 12 resounding bongs. Berlin held a massive fete: In a stretch leading from the city's famous Brandenburg Gate along Tiergarten park to the western part of town, officials set up three stages, 13 bands, a 40-yard tall Ferris wheel and over 100 beer stands and snack joints. In Vatican City, Pope Benedict XVI took a somber note, lamenting what he called the "trivialization" of sexuality and lack of faith among young people during a vespers' service in St. Peter's Basilica. China started its Olympic year with a New Year party including fireworks, singing and dancing put on by the organizers of the Summer Olympics. In Brazil, about 2 million people gathered at Copacabana Beach in Rio de Janeiro, witnessing a fireworks display that lasted nearly 20 minutes. In Sao Paulo, South America's biggest city, local media said 2.3 million people celebrated at the Avenida Paulista, Brazil's financial center.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE NASA targets shuttle launch for Feb. 7 November 12th, 2008 By Patrick Peterson, Florida TodayCAPE CANAVERAL — NASA is targeting Feb. 7 for shuttle Atlantis' launch to the International Space Station to deliver the European Columbus module. About two months after the original launch attempt, the extra time is needed to correct faulty fuel-level readings likely caused by an electrical connector that passes through the wall of the external tank. Waiting until at least Feb. 7 also would put the shuttle's arrival at the space station behind the docking of a Russian Progress cargo vehicle scheduled to launch the same day from Kazakhstan. NASA officials stressed Thursday that the date is tentative. "That date is now under evaluation," NASA spokesman James Hartsfield said. "There's not an official launch date yet."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Columbus | Kazakhstan | International Space Station | Atlantis | James Hartsfield | Russian Progress Today, technicians will install a new connector to replace the one thought to have caused intermittent readings from a low-fuel sensor. NASA plans to proceed to launch without fueling the shuttle to test the performance of the replacement part. "We're not scheduled to do a tanking test," NASA spokeswoman Candrea Thomas said. "That doesn't mean we can't do one later on."Copyright 2007, SPACE.com Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE U.S. military recruits on the Web November 12th, 2008 (IDG) — A sword embedded in a smoldering metal sphere rises from primordial mist. The comic-book-style illustration appears at the center of a stark black Web page as hand-lettered words fade in: "They are born in an inferno that tests both mind and body. Those who complete the challenge become beacons of honor, courage and commitment. What does it take to be one of the few? The answer lies within." If you enter, you reach the "processing" page: "Tell us a little about yourself and we'll tell you what it takes to become one of us." This is no superhero adventure. It's a recruiting site for the U.S. Marine Corps. The armed forces are in a recruiting crisis; even the popular Air Force may miss its enlistment goals for the first time in 20 years. And the Defense Department says the conflict in Kosovo has done nothing to inspire – or discourage – enlistment at the national level. All four branches of the U.S. military are turning to the Web for help. "We know our site is working because we had 2,000 visitors per day a year and a half ago and we're up to 5,000 visitors per day now," says Maj. Mike Shepherd, U.S. Army Recruiting Command chief of marketing communications. Growth in Web-generated leads has increased over the past 18 months "to the tune of about 200 percent," Shepherd says. URLs are now incorporated into broadcast ads, posters, CD-ROMs and printed brochures for the four branches of service. Launched in August 1998, www.navy.com has a patriotic feel. The homepage features a sailor saluting, the Blue Angels flying in formation and the waving Stars and Stripes. "It says honor, courage and commitment," says Paul Krygowski, creative director at Organic Online, the company that built the site with the Navy's ad agency, BBDO. The site aims to increase awareness of the Navy's extensive technical training and career opportunities, something that usually makes kids think "Air Force." One section features an interactive game, in which the player helps a Navy pilot complete his mission while learning about a variety of Naval careers. A redesign will place even heavier emphasis on education, training and travel opportunities, which are what interest potential recruits the most, focus groups show. In May, the Army will debut a redesign of its own. Originally launched in 1995 with the help of ad agency Young & Rubicam, the current site suffers from its own success. Each group within the Army wanted a piece of the homepage, and as a result, www.goarmy.com is an unfocused portal that channels visitors into separate sites for openings as diverse as the Army Chaplains and the Special Forces. The new site will maintain the breadth of job offerings but will have a more consistent look and more interactivity. "We want to show everyone pictures of people in action so that they can look at it and say, 'Hey, that could be me,'" says Shepherd.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Saint Louis holds Massachusetts to 59 points in rout November 12th, 2008 ST. LOUIS — Tommie Liddell and Kevin Lisch scored 16 points each and Saint Louis held high-scoring Massachusetts to its lowest point total of the season in a 71-59 victory Saturday. Massachusetts (14-7, 3-4 Atlantic 10) came into the game averaging 84.4 points, sixth-highest in the nation, and had scored at least 80 points 13 times this season. Saint Louis (12-9, 3-4) shut the Minutemen down from the start, holding them to 30 percent shooting, including 2-of-21 from 3-point range. Massachusetts was 9-for-36 in the second half, missing its final 10 shots. Gary Forbes had 20 points for Massachusetts, which had a previous low of 65 points in a 12-point loss to Xavier last Sunday. Saint Louis never trailed, leading by six at halftime then opening with a 10-4 run over the first 4:24 of the second half to take control at 44-32. Liddell was 6-of-11 from the field and grabbed nine rebounds. Lisch was 6-of-13 with four assists. Danny Brown added 14 points and seven rebounds off the bench for Saint Louis. Chris Lowe scored 14 points, Etienne Brower added 12 and Tony Gaffney had 10 rebounds for the Minutemen. Copyright 2008 by The Associated Press
11.12.2008	+ SHARE iPods Do Not Interfere With Cardiac Pacemakers, Study Shows November 12th, 2008 ScienceDaily (Feb. 13, 2008) — A new report refutes claims that portable music players, such as Apple's iPod, interfere with cardiac pacemakers. Howard Bassen, a researcher with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in Rockville, Md., led a research team that measured the magnetic fields produced by four different iPod models: a fourth-generation iPod and an iPod with video, and an iPod nano and iPod shuffle. They also measured the voltages delivered inside the pacemaker by the magnetic fields from the iPods. All measurements indicated there would be no effects on users with cardiac pacemakers. Over the past year, a spate of media reports speculated on iPod interference with cardiac pacemakers. These reports, however, were based on a single incident where a patient with a cardiac pacemaker suffered dizziness while using an iPod. Cardiologists operated an iPod during the patient's examination, and noted interference with the pacemaker. The cardiologists published their results in the medical journal, Heart Rhythm. After publication, there was talk of warning labels for portable music and video players, although a subsequent clinical study failed to show any dangerous connection between the music devices and patients with pacemakers. Now, Bassen's more detailed study demonstrates that iPods are not capable of producing electromagnetic interference in implanted pacemakers. Using a 3-coil sensor, the team measured the magnetic field produced by the iPod at a distance of around 5 to 10 millimeters. They obtained readings for the magnetic field at various specific and small regions 10 mm from an iPod. The peak magnetic field strength was 0.2 millionths of a Tesla, a value hundreds of times lower than the levels capable of interfering with a pacemaker. In addition, Bassen's team attempted to detect any voltages these fields might produce within the protective "can" of a pacemaker. The can was placed inside a simulated human torso used by pacemaker manufacturers for interference testing. Bassen and his team found that the voltage levels within the pacemaker can were well below the detection limits of their highly sensitive equipment. "Based on the observations of our in-vitro study we conclude that no interference effects can occur in pacemakers exposed to the iPods we tested," Bassen concluded. Journal reference: Low frequency magnetic emissions and resulting induced voltages in a pacemaker by iPod portable music players. Howard Bassen. BioMedical Engineering OnLine (in press)
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Genetic variants may be ‘trading’ one illness with another using new genes, Oxford research shows November 12th, 2008 A genetic trade-off between type 2 diabetes and prostate cancer has been identified by scientists, with the discovery of genes that can raise the risk of one condition while protecting against the other. The research suggests that the two very different diseases may be influenced by the same biological pathway, with people's risk rising or falling according to particular genetic variants they inherit. Picture of Chromosomes These insights will improve understanding of both the adult-onset form of diabetes and prostate tumours, and perhaps other cancers as well. This promises the development of new therapies, and should help scientists to avoid designing drugs aimed at one disorder that inadvertently trigger the other. The genetic trade-off has emerged from a major international search for genetic influences on type 2 diabetes, which has linked six new genes to the condition. One of these is a gene called JAZF1: people who carry one copy of a particular variant are about 15 per cent more likely than usual to develop diabetes, while those with two copies have a 30 per cent increased risk. A different variant of JAZF1, however, is also known to raise the risk of prostate cancer in men who have it. Research indicates that a raised risk of one disorder is probably balanced by a lower risk of the other. The findings are especially significant because another gene that has opposing effects on the two diseases, called TCF2, was identified last year by an Icelandic team. A third gene, CDKN2A, appears to raise the risk of type 2 diabetes when over-active, while raising the risk of cancer, particularly malignant melanoma, when under-active. Mark McCarthy, Professor of Diabetes at the University of Oxford and a leader of the JAZF1 study, said that while one “see-saw” gene could be a fluke, the discovery of three makes it more probable that there is a genuine interaction. “If you have one version of a gene, you have an elevated risk of diabetes, if you have another, you have an increased risk of prostate cancer,” he said. “It was an entirely unexpected finding when the link first emerged last year, and now we have found it again in a completely different gene. “It is interesting from a biological point of view, but it might also be important for drug design. It might tell you something about the collateral damage you might do with a drug that targets one condition or the other.”
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Olympic swimmer wouldn't let cancer dash his dream November 12th, 2008 ATLANTA, Georgia (CNN) — For Olympic swimmer Eric Shanteau, the last two months have been a whirlwind. "Full of the best moments and the scariest moments of my life," says the 24-year-old Olympic swimmer.Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. Eric Shanteau said he felt angry when he found out he had testicular cancer. "Getting to the Olympics was, has always been, my swimming dream since I was 8 or 9 years old. You know, right after I started swimming it was, 'I want to make an Olympic team. That's where I want to be'." In June, a week before the qualifying round of the Olympics he was told he had testicular cancer. "My initial reaction was probably anger more than anything else," he says. "I'm used to being in control of everything. I'm in control of how I train, how I race and then to all of a sudden have that control ripped away from me was tough." After weeks of tests to determine the "stage" or spread of the cancer, Shanteau's team of doctors cleared him to compete in the Beijing Olympics, which meant carefully monitoring his tumor but delaying treatment. Though putting off the surgery was controversial to some, Eric says it was an educated choice based on numerous doctor evaluations. "I hope people understand that if I was in a different position with my test results, then I wouldn't have put off having surgery." Video Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports from Eric Shanteau's surgery » He swam a personal best in the 200 meter breaststroke. He did not qualify for the finals. Cancer was a motivator, he says, because he knew it meant he could be facing his last competition. He put everything he had into that heat. "Leave it all in the pool, and I don't look back and regret anything as far as how I raced." Once back from Beijing, Shanteau invited CNN to spend time with him the night before his surgery in Atlanta, Georgia. Though admittedly a little scared, he spent the evening relaxing with his family, cooking dinner, walking the dog.Don't Miss * Olympic swimmer battles testicular cancer A source of inspiration, he says, were fans who shared their stories of beating cancer. "They send me their story and it helps me to learn that people are going through the same thing I am all over the world," says Shanteau. "They all affect me in a different way and it's been really encouraging to share in this experience with other people." Testicular cancer is diagnosed in about 1 in 300 men in their lifetime. It is the most common form of cancer for 15- to 34-year-olds. It is also one of the most curable if discovered early. Nearly 140,000 men in the United States are testicular cancer survivors. Shanteau says he experienced no symptoms of cancer and came across the tumor by chance. "I've been in a Speedo half my life," he says. "So I am really comfortable with my body. One day I just felt something that wasn't suppose to be there. I decided to go and get it checked out." He adds that although he had the "greatest excuse in the world" — an Olympic dream — to ignore the lump, he understood the importance of early detection. Shanteau's father Rick, is battling lung cancer and responding well to treatment. "A lot of guys, if they hear a rattle in their car, they're at the mechanic the next day," he says. "But if they feel something [physically] that they don't think should be there, it takes them a year to get to their doctor and that just is not smart. There's really no excuse, because it can save your life." Fast forward to Shanteau's recent operation at Emory University Hospital. CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta was with Shanteau during the surgery and spoke with the lead surgeon, Dr. Jeff Carney, moments afterward. "I think the operation went very well," Carney said. "Eric's a very healthy young man, very thin, in excellent shape. That makes my job easy."
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Stock selloff accelerates November 12th, 2008 NEW YORK (CNNMoney.com) — Stocks tumbled Wednesday afternoon as weak corporate results and forecasts – and slumping commodity prices – amplified fears of a broad recession. Global markets slid, with Asian and European stocks ending lower. Treasury prices rose, lowering the corresponding yields. The dollar was mixed versus other major currencies. Oil, gas and gold prices fell. With roughly an hour left in the session, the Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) had lost 373 points, or 4.1%, after having lost as much as 430 points earlier. The Standard & Poor's 500 (SPX) index lost 4.9% and the Nasdaq composite (COMP) lost 3.7%. Lending rates improved, helping to reassure investors that the efforts of world governments to stabilize financial markets are starting to work. But any relief about the improvement in the credit market was overshadowed by recession fears. In economic news, the number of layoffs impacting 50 workers or more rose to the highest level in September since the month of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Stocks fell Tuesday as weak quarterly results and forecasts underscored the depth of what many think is a recession. Wednesday's reports, including a big, surprise quarterly loss from bank Wachovia, added to those worries. There is an increased focus on results this week because 140 of the S&P 500 companies are reporting, giving investors the best sense yet of the health of corporate America. With 21% of S&P 500 companies already having reported results, third-quarter profits are currently on track to have fallen almost 10% from a year ago, according to the latest estimates from Thomson Reuters.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE What Your Cell Phone Knows About You November 12th, 2008 Can your cell phone tell if you're happy or overworked? Researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology think it can do that and more–separate the rich from the poor, the sick from the healthy, even the outgoing from the introverted. Sandy Pentland, director of MIT's Human Dynamics Research program, has focused his work on that unlikely task: using gadgets as simple as a cell phone to better understand the quirks and patterns of human behavior. Sandy Pentland Pentland's experiments began with what he calls a "sociometer," a simple badge-like device that hangs from a subject's neck and records his or her movements, tone of voice, and location. With just those signals collected from large groups of subjects, Pentland says he was able to perform a kind of data analysis he calls "reality mining," finding patterns that reveal a surprising range of information–from how a population breaks down into groups, to which groups are most social and productive, to the personality traits of single individuals, all based on measuring tone of voice and body language. In his most recent experiments, however, the sociometer hasn't been necessary. Instead, Pentland has tracked his subjects through their cell phones, which are carried by around four out of five Americans. Pentland spoke with Forbes.com about the benefits his tracking experiments could offer to society, the privacy problems they pose and how he hopes to strike a balance between the two. Forbes.com: What is "reality mining?" Sandy Pentland: Reality mining is about using sensors to understand human beings. The sensors could be security cameras, they could be devices that you wear on yourself, they could be cell phones. The point is it's about people. Data mining is about finding patterns in digital stuff. I'm more interested specifically in finding patterns in humans. I'm taking data mining out into the real world. What kind of reality-mining experiments have you actually performed? We developed this thing called a sociometer, a little badge that you wear around your neck that records your body language, your motion and your tone of voice–the tone, not the words. It gives us a nice little package for reality mining. We've done all sorts of interesting things with this. Just listening to peoples' tones of voice and how they move, we can measure interest level and attention, factors that account for 40% of the variation in the outcomes of things like salary negotiation, dating scenarios, closing a sale, pitching a business plan.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE More cities offer Wi-Fi on buses November 12th, 2008 View Larger Map CINCINNATI — Tim Harrington sits aboard the express bus from Mason, Ohio, to Cincinnati, his computer propped in his lap. He logs on, picks through his e-mail and begins his workday during the 30-to-40-minute rush-hour trip. His commuter bus and buses in more than 20 other cities now offer wireless Internet, according to an informal survey by the American Public Transportation Association (APTA). The service surfaced about four years ago. Mountain Metropolitan Transit in Colorado Springs first offered WiFi on buses in 2004, the APTA says. It is now available across the USA in cities such as San Francisco, Reno, Austin and Seattle. Not everyone's on board. A spokesman for the Washington (D.C.) Metropolitan Area Transit Authority said there are no plans to initiate wireless service. Wireless service is also on some commuter trains. The Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority added it to its 45-mile rail line between Worchester and Boston in January. Deputy Chief of Staff Kris Erickson said it's "probably the most well-received enhancement that we've ever done."FIND MORE STORIES IN: Washington | Internet | Boston | San Francisco | Seattle | Austin | Salt Lake City | Dayton | Colorado Springs | Wi-Fi | Reno | Department of Transportation | Mason | King County | Public Transportation Association | WiFi | Enquirer | Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority | Utah Transit Authority | Worchester New York City's Metropolitan Transportation Authority announced an agreement last September to wire the city's 277 subway stations in the next six years. The first should be wired in two years. The Utah Transit Authority began offering Internet service on 60 of its buses in January. In February, San Francisco unveiled the "Connected Bus." Cincinnati started its three-month wireless pilot program in March on a single route. APTA President William Miller predicts wireless Internet will become a service riders expect. "When I was a kid, you never thought of having an air-conditioned bus," he said. Outfitting a bus with wireless capability costs about $1,000 to $2,000, transportation officials said. In Cincinnati, Southwest Ohio Regional Transit Authority's Metro bus system, working with Dayton, Ohio-based HarborLink, paid $1,500 per bus for installation and nothing for the monthly service. In King County, Wash., wiring and installation on each bus cost $1,000, said Mike Berman of the county Department of Transportation's Metro Transit Division. The Utah Transit Authority reports the number of unique wireless users on its buses increased from about 500 in January's start-up to 2,500 by the end of March. David Parra, a computer engineer, uses the service on his 55-minute daily commute to and from Salt Lake City. "Having the WiFi has made a huge difference for me," he said.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Golf's Leaders Converge on Washington for National Golf Day November 12th, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C. April 16, 2008 The golf industry is the sports and entertainment worlds' largest contributor to the U.S. economy, generating $76 billion in direct economic impact according to a recent study discussed today by some of the nation's leading golf association executives. In a press conference at the National Press Club to commemorate the first National Golf Day, the golf leaders also discussed the industry's environmental stewardship and its multi-billion dollar annual contributions to charitable activities. "We are here as a very strong industry coalition to present data that demonstrates golf's extremely positive contributions to the economic health of our nation," said David B. Fay, Chairman, World Golf Foundation, and Executive Director of the USGA. "In addition, we want to highlight golf's environmental stewardship and the game's very positive charitable and human impact on our society. Our message is built around the fact that golf is a vital contributor to our nation's health on a number of significant levels."leadersofgolf.jpgClick Here for transcript of today's press conference at The National Press Club Joining Mr. Fay at the press conference were Tim Finchem, Commissioner of the PGA TOUR; Joe Steranka, Chief Executive Officer of the PGA of America; Steve Mona, Chief Executive Officer of World Golf Foundation; Joe Louis Barrow, Jr., Chief Executive Officer of The First Tee; and Libba Galloway, Deputy Commissioner of the LPGA. Representatives of the Golf Course Superintendents Association of America, National Golf Course Owners Association, Club Managers Association of America, Golf Course Builders Association of America and American Society of Golf Course Architects were also in Washington in recognition of National Golf Day. Each organization is a supporting member of World Golf Foundation. According to U.S. Census data, the $76 billion U.S. golf economy is larger than the motion picture and video industries and that golf facility operations generated $28 billion in revenue, exceeding revenues from all other professional and semi-professional spectator sports combined. The study, which was completed earlier this year, also found that golf generates more than $3.5 billion annually for charities across the country. A bipartisan Congressional resolution sponsored by U.S. Representatives Ron Klein (D-FL) and John Mica (R-FL) declared April 16, 2008 as National Golf Day. The golf leaders stressed that the game's impact on society could best be viewed through three perspectives: economic, environmental and human. Economic Impact A comprehensive study, the 2005 Golf Economy Report, commissioned by World Golf Foundation's GOLF 20/20 initiative and recently completed, determined that golf in the United States generated $76 billion in direct economic impact in 2005, up significantly from $62 billion five years ago. The five-year growth of approximately $14 billion represents an average annual growth rate of 4.1 percent, well ahead of the average annual inflation rate of 2.5 percent during the years 2000-2005. The study was conducted by SRI International.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Martin Luther King Jr.’s Civil Rights Dream at 40 November 12th, 2008 Martin Luther King Jr.’s Civil Rights Dream at 40 When we allow freedom to ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all God’s children—black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics—will be able to join hands and sing in the words of that old Negro spiritual: ‘Free at last! Free at last! Thank God Almighty, we are free at last!” King, the son of an Atlanta pastor, was born in 1929. He became an ordained Baptist minister at the age of 19. In 1955, shortly after civil rights activist Rosa Parks refused to obey Montgomery, Alabama rules mandating segregation on buses, King led black residents in a bus boycott. King soon gained national fame for his extraordinary oratorical skills, and for his courage. In the spring of 1963, he led mass demonstrations in Birmingham, Alabama, where local white police officials opposed integration. Violent clashes between unarmed black demonstrators and police armed with dogs and fire hoses generated newspaper headlines throughout the world. His message, however, was not confrontational, but instead emphasized racial reconciliation through non-violent means. This theme was at the core of his “I have a dream” speech. King was speaking directly to the 250,000 people, black and white, gathered on the Washington Mall that sweltering day 40 years ago. Perhaps more importantly, however, he knew he was also addressing the millions of people, most of them white, who were watching the speech live on television. “He created a reasonable argument that [white] Americans could embrace,” said Haynes. “He appealed to those Americans who didn’t see segregation as a major problem, but still thought it was unfair,” said Haynes. Ulysses Jenkins, another UC Irvine professor, who teaches African-American studies, says King had to convince white people of the benefits of racial reconciliation. “Whites feared that they had something to lose from racial equality,” said Jenkins. “King had to show them they would gain something from it.” The strong religious underpinning of King’s message, with its references to redemption and forgiveness, resonated with white Christians. King’s speech also tapped into America’s political soul. He said the ideals of American democracy had not been realized until there was racial reconciliation. “His message was larger than civil rights,” said Clayborne Carson, director of the Martin Luther King, Jr. Papers Project at Stanford University in Palo Alto. “King was fighting for justice.” But the speech also served as a warning. “King wanted people to act,” said Carson, who was 19 years old when he attended the march. “The underlying message was clear: As long as there was no change, the demonstrations would continue.” Launch in external player
11.12.2008	+ SHARE Debt-for-Nature Agreement to Conserve Peru's Tropical Forests (Video) November 12th, 2008 Washington, DC–The Governments of the United States of America and the Republic of Peru have announced an agreement to reduce Peru's debt payments to the United States by more than $25 million over the next seven years. In return, the Government of Peru has committed these funds to support grants to protect the country's tropical forests. Secretary Paulson welcomed the agreement with the Government of Peru under the U.S. Tropical Forest Conservation Act. "This agreement will build on the success of previous U.S. Government debt swaps with Peru and will further the cause of environmental conservation in a country with one of the highest levels of biodiversity on the planet. Such debt-for-nature agreements are a successful model of government and citizen cooperation to improve and expand conservation efforts," he said. Peru is one of the most biologically rich countries on earth. Funds generated by the debt-for-nature program will help Peru protect tropical rain forests of the southwestern Amazon Basin and dry forests of the Central Andes. These areas are home to dense concentrations of endemic birds such as the Andean Condor and Parakeet; primates including the Peruvian Yellow-tailed Woolly Monkey and Howler Monkey; other mammals such as the Jaguar, Amazonian Manatee, Giant Otter, Spectacled Bear and Amazon River Dolphin; as well as unique plants. Rivers supplying water to downstream settlements originate in many of these forests, and people living in and around the forests depend on them for their livelihood and survival. This agreement with Peru was made possible by the innovative Tropical Forest Conservation Act of 1998. It will complement an existing TFCA debt-for-nature program in Peru dating from 2002, a 1997 debt swap under the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative, and the United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement, which includes a number of forest protection provisions. With this agreement, Peru will be the largest beneficiary under the Tropical Forest Conservation Act, with more than $35 million generated for conservation. The new Peru agreement marks the 14th Tropical Forest Conservation Act pact, following agreements with Bangladesh, Belize, Botswana, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Jamaica, Panama (two agreements), Paraguay and the Philippines, as well as an earlier agreement with Peru. Over time, these debt-for-nature programs will together generate more than $188 million to protect tropical forests.
11.12.2008	+ SHARE USDA Rural Development Announces Small Minority Producer Grant Recipients (Video) November 12th, 2008 WASHINGTON, October 15, 2008 – Agriculture Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development Douglas L. Faulkner today announced the selection of eight recipients in five states and the Territory of Guam to receive $1.3 million through the Small Minority Producer Grant program. “The grants awarded today will help farmers, cooperative members and business owners better market their products and services and that will ultimately add profit and efficiency to their operations,” Faulkner said. In Hagatna, Guam, the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam has been selected to receive $175,000 to provide training and technical assistance to its members on farming practices and facilities management. Hawaii Rural Development State Director Lorraine P. Shin said “The Farmers Cooperative Association of Farmers was also assisted in its formation through the efforts of USDA’s cooperative development technical assistance program. In September 2005. we held a week-long training session in Guam for potential cooperative projects. Several of the initial incorporators of the Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam were in attendance where the idea of the cooperative was discussed with Agency staff. It is good to see the results of this planning effort pay off in helping Guam farmers with additional resources” The Winston County Self Help Cooperative in Louisville, Miss., will receive $145,000 to provide business planning services, feasibility analysis, and marketing and business formation assistance to its members. In Barry, Texas, the Navarro County Black Farmers & Ranchers League, Inc. will receive $174,600 to provide technical assistance for product improvement, marketing and customer service training. Small Minority Producer Grants are provided to cooperatives or associations of cooperatives to provide technical assistance to small, minority agriculture producers. Funding of individual recipients is contingent upon meeting the conditions of the grant agreement. Below is the complete list of recipients. Small Minority Producer Grant Recipients Recipient State Grant Amount Rio Culebra Lucero CO $174,922 Farmers Cooperative Association of Guam Territory of Guam $175,000 Mississippi Association of Cooperatives MS $175,000 Winston County Self Help Cooperative MS $145,000 Native American People Cooperative ND $175,000 InterTribal Bison Cooperative SD $175,000 Southwest Texas Goat Producers, Inc. TX $118,372 Navarro County Black Farmers and Ranchers League, Inc. TX $174,600 USDA Rural Development’s mission is to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural residents. Rural Development has invested more than $90 billion since 2001 for equity and technical assistance to finance and foster growth in homeownership, business development, and critical community and technology infrastructure. More than 1.7 million jobs have been created or saved through these investments. Further information on rural programs is available at a local USDA Rural Development office or by visiting USDA’s web site at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov USDA Rural Development is an Equal Opportunity Lender, Provider, and Employer. Complaints of discrimination should be sent to: USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Washington, D.C. 20250.
11.10.2008	+ SHARE Pilot Missing in Action From The Vietnam War is Identified November 10th, 2008 The Department of Defense POW/Missing Personnel Office (DPMO) announced today that the remains of a U.S. serviceman, missing in action from the Vietnam War, have been identified and will be returned to his family for burial with full military honors. He is Capt. Lorenza Conner, U.S. Air Force, of Cartersville, Ga. He will be buried Oct. 25 in Cartersville. On Oct. 27, 1967, Conner and his copilot flew an F-4D Phantom II fighter jet in a flight of four on a combat air patrol mission over North Vietnam where the plane was hit by anti-aircraft fire over Tuyen Quang Province, North Vietnam. The copilot ejected safely, was captured and later released by Vietnamese forces, but Conner could not eject from the aircraft before it crashed. In 1992, Vietnamese citizens told U.S. officials that they had information concerning the remains of missing U.S. servicemen and they turned over Conner’s identification tag. Between 1992 and 2003, several joint U.S./Socialist Republic of Vietnam (S.R.V.) teams, led by the Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC), investigated this incident, interviewed witnesses and surveyed the crash site. At the crash site, teams found aircrew-related equipment and aircraft wreckage consistent with an F-4 Phantom II. In 2007, another joint team excavated the site and recovered human remains. Among other forensic identification tools and circumstantial evidence, scientists from JPAC also used dental comparisons in the identification of Conner’s remains. For additional information on the Defense Department’s mission to account for missing Americans, visit the DPMO Web site at http://www.dtic.mil/dpmo or call (703) 699-1169
11.10.2008	+ SHARE DoD Announces Recruiting And Retention Numbers For Fiscal 2008 November 10th, 2008 The Department of Defense announced today its recruiting and retention statistics for the active and reserve components for fiscal 2008. Active Duty Recruiting Fiscal 2008. All services met or exceeded their recruiting goals for fiscal 2008. – The Army had 80,517 accessions, making 101 percent of its 80,000 goal – The Navy had 38,485 accessions, making 100 percent of its 38,419 goal. -The Marine Corps had 37,991 accessions, making 100 percent of its 37,967 goal. – The Air Force had 27,848 accessions, making 100 percent of its 27,800 goal. Active Duty Retention. Army and Navy exceeded their fiscal 2008 targets. Although the Marine Corps retained far more first term personnel than last year, it did not meet its ambitious first term reenlistment goals and it achieved 95 percent total retention. Air Force missed its end-of-year mission in each reenlistment zone. We expect to see Air Force retention rates improve gradually through fiscal 2009, and we anticipate that Air Force will meet its fiscal 2009 end strength mission. Reserve Forces Accessions Fiscal 2007. All six reserve components met or exceeded their accession goals for fiscal 2008. – The Army National Guard brought in 65,192 accessions, 103 percent of its 63,000 goal; the Army Reserve brought in 39,870 accessions, 106 percent of its 37,500 goal. – The Navy Reserve brought in 9,134 accessions, 100 percent of its 9,122 goal. The Marine Corps Reserve brought in 7,628 accessions, 100 percent of its 7,628 goal. – The Air National Guard brought in 10,749 accessions, 126 percent of its 8,548 goal, while the Air Force Reserve brought in 7,323 accessions, 105 percent of its 6,963 goal. Reserve Attrition. Losses in all reserve components remain within acceptable limits. (Note: This indicator lags by one month) Detailed information on specific recruiting data can be obtained by contacting the individual military recruiting commands at (502) 626-0164 for Army, (210) 565-4678 for Air Force, (703) 784-9454 for Marine Corps and (703) 697-8761 for Navy. The reserve components can be reached at the following numbers: National Guard Bureau (703) 607-2586; Army Reserve (404) 464-8490; Air Force Reserve (703) 697-1761; Navy Reserve (504) 678-6055; and Marine Corps Reserve (504) 678-6535.
10.31.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Palo Alto Police Chief Lynne Johnson October 31st, 2008 October 31, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) released the following statement in response to Palo Alto Police Chief Lynne Johnson’s public comments regarding a directive she issued to officers to stop and question African-Americans in the community relative to the spike in street robberies. “Using race as the only basis for criminal suspicion in the absence of any probable cause is not only unacceptable, it is unconstitutional and has no place in our community and our country. Chief Johnson’s comments send a destructive message which is harmful to our entire community and the directive she issued to the Department undermines civil liberties. “Regardless of how Chief Johnson’s comments might be defended or explained, she has demonstrated a profound lack of judgment and leadership that should be demanded of a top law enforcement official. “Chief Johnson should rescind her orders and her statements or resign.” ###
10.09.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement in Recognition of Filipino American Heritage Month October 9th, 2008 October 9, 2008 Washington, D.C. – In honor of Filipino American Heritage Month, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) released the following statement. “This month we celebrate Filipino Heritage Month and it is an honor to recognize the over 15,000 residents of my Congressional District who are of Filipino descent. Filipino Americans have made many great contributions to the 14th Congressional District and it is fitting to acknowledge their long and continued service to the state of California and the nation. “I want to especially honor Filipino Veterans for their heroic service to our country. Congress passed legislation this year to authorize a lump-sum payment to Filipino veterans, but this is only a down payment for what is owed to these courageous soldiers. Filipino veterans served honorably and sacrificed their lives side-by-side American soldiers during World War II and they deserve what we promised them over sixty years ago. I pledge to work with my colleagues until full equity is won for Filipino veterans.” ###
10.09.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds ACHP Decision on Hangar One October 9th, 2008 October 9, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement in response to the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation’s letter to Naval Secretary Donald C. Winter regarding the fate of Hangar One at the former Naval Air Station Moffett Field. “I’m thrilled with the ACHP’s letter to Secretary Winter. The ACHP clearly recognizes the strong support from our community for a complete restoration of Hangar One and recognizes the importance of NASA Ames in this process. “The public has made its voice heard and I’m proud of the collaboration between private citizens, local governments, and Members of Congress in this ongoing effort. The ACHP is acutely aware of the historical significance of Hangar One and the desires of my constituents. I’ve always been hopeful that a workable solution will be found and this decision has only fueled my optimism.” The Advisory Council’s response parallels the letter sent by Rep. Eshoo and twelve Congressional Colleagues to the Secretary of the Navy on September 17th calling for the Navy’s full commitment to working with NASA to restore Hangar One. The ACHP’s letter recommends that the Navy “develop a formal partnership with NASA to develop a single coordinated delivery schedule to re-skin the hangar and find a viable reuse for the building.” ###
10.03.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes for Passage of Economic Recovery Legislation October 3rd, 2008 October 3, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today voted for legislation that will shore up the nation’s financial markets, protect taxpayers and address some of the nation’s most critical health and energy independence needs. The House passed the bill by a vote of 263-171. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 gives Congress strict oversight over the purchase of mortgage-backed assets and institutes fiscally responsible reforms to ensure that taxpayers are first in line to be reimbursed once the plan begins to work. A similar bill failed to pass the House on September 29th by a vote of 205-228 and when it did the Dow Jones plunged by 777 points, the largest single drop in its history in one day. “Following the vote I returned home and saw in my District the negative effects of our financial turmoil,” said Eshoo. “Community banks told me they are not loaning to small businesses, auto dealers told me they are having trouble moving their inventory because customers can’t negotiate loans, and school districts and counties have lost millions of dollars of retirement funds because the sound investments they held went down with failed institutions. Our commercial and consumer credit markets are drying up and if we continue to do nothing, the ability for my constituents to obtain home mortgages, car loans, student loans, loans for small businesses, or even credit cards will become highly difficult or impossible. Even more financial institutions and businesses could fail and millions could lose their pensions and retirement savings, thousands of jobs could be lost, and large parts of our economy could cease to function. The repercussions would be far greater than the cost of a financial rescue program. “The vote I took earlier this week was as tough as any I’ve ever taken during my time in Congress and today’s vote was not any easier. I voted ‘yes’ because I believe it is in the best interest of my constituents and our country.” On October 1st the Senate passed economic rescue legislation, adding to the bill renewable energy tax incentives which are critical to creating and saving half a million green jobs and helping us achieve energy independence, tax cuts for 20 million families who will be hit by the Alternative Minimum Tax, an extension of the research and development tax credit, disaster relief, mental health parity to end coverage discrimination, and other provisions. The improved bill also importantly includes an increase in federal insurance coverage of bank deposits from $100,000 to $250,000, as well as Rep. Eshoo’s top priorities: Strong independent oversight, transparency, and accountability requiring Congressional review after the first $350 billion is disbursed; Limits on excessive compensation for CEOs and executives of participating financial institutions; Requiring a plan that would ensure taxpayers are repaid in full-or even make a profit; A $1000 tax break for 28 million American homeowners who don’t itemize and desperately need property tax relief; Requiring the government to steer mortgages in danger of foreclosure to loan workout programs to prevent the foreclosures that are driving down home values across America; Protection of school district and city/county investments. “The greatest risk to our country in the face of this financial crisis is doing nothing. Last month employers dropped 159,000 jobs, the biggest decline in five years. Yesterday, Governor Schwarzenegger warned Secretary Paulson that California may have to seek an emergency loan of $7 billion so that the state government can continue day-to-day operations. It has become clear that this credit crisis affects all of us, from those on the verge of retirement to new parents starting a college savings account for their child. It’s not the bankers or Wall Street titans who need this bill, it is the every day Americans who are struggling with stagnant wages and rising mortgage, student loan and credit card payments. My ‘yes’ vote today is to help Americans struggling financially on Main Street and ensure that the financial rescue effort protects my constituents and the taxpayer.” ###
09.29.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Votes to Stabilize Economy, Protect Taxpayers and Main Street September 29th, 2008 September 29, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep.Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) today voted for economic recovery legislation that reinvests in the financial markets to stabilize the economy and ensure that taxpayers are the first in line to recover their assets once the recovery plan begins to work. “This is as tough a vote as any I’ve ever taken during my time in Congress,” said Eshoo. “Today, I will vote ‘yes’ because I believe we’ve shaped a good bill which is fair to taxpayers and it is a plan to address the many critical issues plaguing the U.S. financial system. Having said this, I know that no legislation is perfect; it is a product of human beings. But doing nothing I believe is a higher risk to our country and would hurt millions of Americans across the nation. I didn’t come to Congress to hurt people. “This financial crisis is proof-positive of the failed economic policies of the Bush Administration which has engaged in ‘cowboy capitalism’ for too long. Wall Street has been allowed to run free withlittle oversight or regulation to protect the American taxpayer. My ‘yes’ vote is to allow the country to move forward, to protect taxpayers, to help Main Street, protect pensions, to protect 401Ks, and to restore our credit markets with no rewards for those whose greed and foolishness have so jeopardized our economy. The Emergency Economic Stabilization Act will allow the federal government, with strict oversight from Congress, to purchase mortgage-backed assets and institute fiscally responsible reforms to ensure that the investments will be paid back to the taxpayers. Specificallythe bill contains the following provisions: Ensures That Taxpayers Have an Equity Share in Any Profits Gives taxpayers an ownership stake and profit sharing of participating companies. Puts taxpayers first in line to recover assets if a participating company fails. Allows the government to purchase troubled assets from pension plans, local government, and small banks that serve low and middle-income families. Strong Independent Oversight and Transparency Establishes four separate independent oversight entities or processes to protect the taxpayer including: Establishment of an independent bipartisan board to provide oversight, review and accountability of taxpayer funds. A Government Accountability Office presence at Treasury to oversee the program and conduct audits to ensure strong internal controls, and to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse. An independent Inspector General to monitor the Treasury Secretary’s decisions. Have all transactions posted online for the public. Staging of Funds Rather than giving the Treasury all the funds at once, the legislation releases $250 billion immediately, and another $100 billion upon a Presidential certification of need. The final $350 billion could be made available if the President transmits a written report to Congress requesting the funds. Congress could pass a resolution disapproving the $350 billion. If no disapproval resolution is enacted, the next installment of $350 billion would be released 15 days after the President’s request. Limits on Golden Parachutes The bill provides that an institution that sells more than $300 million in assets to the Treasury be subject to additional taxes, including a 20% excise tax on golden parachute payments for compensation limits above $500,000. Home Foreclosures Allows the government to change the terms of mortgages to help reduce the 2 million projected foreclosures in the next year. Protection of School District and City/County Investments Assist school districts, cities and counties who had investments in failed institutions. “If we don’t act now, obtaining a home mortgage, a car loan, a student loan, a small business loans or even a credit card will become difficult or impossible for consumers. More financial institutions will fail and millions could lose their savings, thousands of jobs could be lost, and large parts of our economy could cease to function. The repercussions of this would be far greater than the potential cost of any financial rescue program,” said Eshoo. The legislation failed to pass the House by a vote of 205-228. ###
09.27.2008	+ SHARE House Passes Eshoo Arthritis Prevention Bill September 27th, 2008 September 27, 2008 Washington, D.C. – The House today passed legislation authored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) that will make landmark investments in research and support services for those suffering from arthritis. The Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act (H.R. 1283) helps the nearly one in five adults and 300,000 children in America that suffer from arthritis. “Arthritis is the leading cause of disability in the United States and affects the more than 46.3 million Americans who are living with this disease,” said Eshoo. “The bill invests in the critical needs of those suffering from arthritis and in research that will help future generations of Americans who are diagnosed with the disease.” The legislation makes critical investments in research and support services for those suffering from arthritis. The bill enhances the National Arthritis Action Plan by supporting federal, state, and private arthritis prevention and management efforts. It also focuses attention on juvenile arthritis research by creating planning grants for innovative research in that field and establishes education loan repayment and career development award programs to encourage more health professionals to enter the field of pediatric rheumatology. While more than 300,000 children suffer from pediatric arthritis, there are only 239 pediatric rheumatologists in the country that are able to treat them. There are eleven states without even one doctor to diagnose and treat these children. “The cornerstone of this bill is the loan repayment to physicians who agree to practice pediatric rheumatology in underserved areas.” The bill, which was passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, has the support of the Arthritis Foundation and the American College of Rheumatology. ###
09.26.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Bill to Protect National Forests, Diminish Effects of Climate Change September 26th, 2008 September 26, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) introduced a bill yesterday that will protect national forests, federal lands and wildlife refuges from aggressive logging practices that are destroying the native ecosystems in these habitats. The Act to Save America’s Forests (H.R. 7090) will preserve these national treasures for future generations by banning all clearcutting in national forests. The bipartisan bill will also mitigate the damaging effects of climate change. “This legislation bans logging practices that are decimating our nation’s forests,” said Eshoo. “The situation has reached a breaking point in America’s forests, federal lands and wildlife refuges and Congress must step in to protect the biodiversity of these ecosystems before it’s too late. The added benefit of decreasing carbon emissions amplifies the need to pass this legislation.” The Act to Save America’s Forests will allow for ecologically sustainable logging in federal lands, while ending logging altogether in core regions of the federal forest system. The legislation will also transfer the Giant Sequoia National Monument from the National Forest Service to the National Park Service. While under the jurisdiction of the National Forest Service, logging has continued in the Giant Sequoia National Monument, whereas when it is placed under the National Park Service logging will cease. The bill mitigates the damaging effects of climate change. More carbon emissions are produced each year by deforestation than by the burning of fossil fuels. Logging reduces the amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) that forests can absorb from the atmosphere, costing billions of dollars annually. Eshoo, a longtime proponent of protecting the nation’s forests, has introduced similar bills in the last four Congresses. The Act to Save America’s Forests has the bipartisan support of 70 Members of Congress. ###
09.24.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation for Pancreatic Cancer Research September 24th, 2008 September 24, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D – Palo Alto) introduced a bill today that will establish a National Pancreatic Cancer Initiative to provide a greater focus on the disease and give the National Cancer Institute the tools it needs to discover ways to diagnose and treat pancreatic cancer in its early stages and perhaps one day prevent it. “Pancreatic cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths in America and for too many it is a death sentence,” said Eshoo. “It is essential to invest in research and early diagnosis of the disease. This bill may not immediately result in a cure for pancreatic cancer, but it has the potential to make great strides in the direction of prevention and early diagnosis of the disease.” More than 37,000 Americans will be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer this year and 75% of them will die within a year of the diagnosis. Pancreatic cancer remains one of the most lethal and overlooked types of cancer. As the overall mortality rate for other types of cancer in America has declined, the number of Americans dying from pancreatic cancer has increased. The National Plan to Advance Pancreatic Cancer Research Act will provide renewed focus on research of the disease in addition to creating a National Pancreatic Cancer Initiative. The National Pancreatic Cancer Initiative will help to identify the research priorities, infrastructure needs, and workforce training requirements that are needed to make progress in pancreatic cancer research. ###
09.17.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo and Fellow Members of Congress Urge Navy to Step Up and Restore Hangar One September 17th, 2008 September 17, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) with the overwhelming support of the Northern California Delegation sent the following letter to Secretary of the Navy, Donald Winter. The full text of the letter is below. To see a PDF of the letter, click here . To see a PDF of California delegation’s 2006 letter to the Secretary of the Navy, click here . To see Center Director Pete Worden’s Palo Alto Daily News op-ed, click here . *** September 17, 2008 The Honorable Donald WinterSecretary of the NavyDepartment of Defense1000 Navy PentagonWashington, D.C. 20350 Dear Secretary Winter, We write once again about the fate of historic Hangar One at former Moffett Field Naval Air Station (NAS) in California. Recall we contacted you in June 2006 with our deep concerns about the preservation of this treasured landmark (copy enclosed). We applaud the Navy’s decision not to demolish this national treasure. However, we agree with the Palo Alto Weekly Editorial: Navy’s Half Step on Hangar One dated August 6, 2008, “…the idea of leaving a skeletal remain is both repulsive and non-responsive to the intent of laws and regulations covering base closures.” Our position on behalf of our mutual Bay Area constituents is as follows: The Navy is responsible for the remediation of environmental hazards. The health and well-being of our citizens must always be our priority. The Navy should cooperate with NASA to ensure that remediation and restoration are efficiently achieved. This includes providing a schedule for the Navy’s work. Enclosed is a copy of Center Director Pete Worden’s excellent column underscoring NASA’s willingness to work with the Navy dated September 10, 2008 in the Palo Alto Daily News entitled, “NASA Aims to Restore Hangar One’s Legacy.” Our constituents have overwhelmingly supported a re-skinning of Hangar One during the public comment period, and it is critical that we do everything possible to see that Hangar One is restored so that it remains an icon in the Bay Area. Citizens and community leaders alike have come together to support a re-skinning and remediation process that allows for a new covering for Hangar One. We thank you for your attention to this critical matter and we look forward to celebrating the rebirth of this one of a kind historic treasure.Sincerely, /s____________________________ /s _____________________________ Anna G. Eshoo Nancy PelosiMember of Congress Speaker of the House /s _____________________________ /s ______________________________ Zoe Lofgren Mike ThompsonMember of Congress Member of Congress /s _____________________________ /s ______________________________ Michael M. Honda Ellen O. TauscherMember of Congress Member of Congress /s _____________________________ /s ______________________________Barbara Lee Lynn WoolseyMember of Congress Member of Congress /s _____________________________ /s ______________________________ Fortney H. “Pete” Stark George MillerMember of Congress Member of Congress /s _____________________________ /s ______________________________ Jackie Speier Jerry McNernyMember of Congress Member of Congress /s _____________________________Sam FarrMember of Congress Enclosures cc: The Hon. B.J. Penn, Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Installations and the Environment Dr. Pete Worden, NASA Ames Center Director Chairman John L. Nau, Advisory Council on Historic Preservation ###
08.01.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Approve Pay Equity Legislation August 1st, 2008 August 1, 2008 Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) joined her House colleagues today in approving historic changes to the Equal Pay Act that will strengthen protections against pay discrimination based on gender . The legislation, the Paycheck Fairness Act, closes dangerous loopholes in current law that allow employers to avoid responsibility for discriminatory pay. “The wage gap between men and women has narrowed since the passage of the landmark Equal Pay Act in 1963, but women continue to make only 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man,” said Rep. Eshoo. “It’s time to close the gap and pass this law. This legislation will strengthen workplace discrimination laws and empower women to negotiate for equal pay.” The Paycheck Fairness Act closes a loophole that has allowed some employers to avoid liability in pay discrimination cases if they can name any factor that has determined the pay other than gender, even if it isn’t work-related. The bill will put gender-based discrimination sanctions on equal footing with other forms of wage discrimination by allowing women to sue for compensatory and punitive damages. The legislation will also prevent employers from punishing workers who discuss their wages with their fellow employees. “No matter what her job is, a woman’s work is just as valuable as a man’s,” said Rep. Eshoo. “Today we have taken another step toward eliminating the discrimination that diminishes and shortchanges women in the workplace.” # # #
08.01.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Navy’s Hangar One Proposal August 1st, 2008 August 1, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement in response to the Navy’s proposal to strip Hangar One in Moffett Field of its toxic siding and leave the structure’s steel frame in place. “I am cautiously optimistic about the Navy’s announcement today about the future of Hangar One. Having worked on this issue since 2003, today’s announcement is a great example of how a community can work together to save a historic landmark. “It is my hope that as we continue to work with the Navy, the community, and historic preservation authorities to find a workable final solution that respects the public’s overwhelming desire to restore Hangar One, that we will finally prevail.” # # #
07.26.2008	+ SHARE Live Webcast for Menlo Park Town Hall Meeting July 26th, 2008 Watch the live webcast of the Menlo Park Town Hall Meeting beginning at 1:00pm: Click here for Video (Recommended for High Speed/Broadband Connections) Click here for Audio Only (Recommended for Dial Up Connections) To view the live webcast you need Quicktime Player. To download the player, click here . Email AskAnna@mail.house.gov to ask a question during the town hall meeting Below, you will find a selection of the handouts Rep. Eshoo has made available for constituents attending and viewing this meeting. Each is available in Adobe PDF format. Anna’s Legislation Healthy Americans ActAnna’s Statement on the Introduction of the Healthy Americans Act (PDF) One Pager on the Healthy Americans Act (PDF) Summary of the Healthy Americans Act (PDF) CALM Act, Addressing excessively noisy television commercials CALM Act Statement (PDF) SF Chronicle CALM Act Article Waterboarding Ban LegislationAnna’s Statement on the Introduction of Waterboarding Ban (PDF) Anna’s Statements on Important Issues FISA Statement (PDF) Medicaid Cuts Statement (PDF) Net Neutrality Statement (PDF) Wireless Broadband Statement (PDF) First Amendment to Supplemental Statement (PDF) Second Amendment to Supplemental Statement (PDF) Third Amendment to Supplemental Statement(PDF) Palo Alto VA Hospital Statement (PDF) Anna’s Letters Letter to President Bush on Iraq (PDF) Letter to President Bush on California Fires (PDF) Letter to Chairmen Obey and Mollahan on Salmon(PDF) One Pagers/Summaries of Important Issues Veterans and Troops Progress Report (PDF) July 2008 Newsletter (PDF) AMT Relief Act Summary (PDF) Energy/Drilling/Gas Prices Summary (PDF) Education and Labor Accomplishments Pamphlet (PDF) DTV Transition Information DTV Transition FAQ DTV Coupon Application (PDF) Economic Stimulus Package Information Economic Stimulus Package FAQ Economic Stimulus Package Information for Social Security Recipients Economic Stimulus Package Information for Veterans Benefits Recipients Economic Stimulus Package Information for Railroad Retirement Recipients Economic Stimulus Package Information for Low-Wage Workers Economic Stimulus Package Information for Military Members Serving in a Combat Zone Economic Stimulus Package Information for Military Families Housing Information Mortgage Payments Sending You Reeling? Here’s What to Do. FTC Facts: Foreclosure Rescue Scams Making Sure Your Mortgage Payments Count Buying a Home FTC Consumer Alert: Deceptive Mortgage Ads
07.24.2008	+ SHARE Committee Approves Bill to Modernize Medical Records and Protect Patient Privacy July 24th, 2008 July 24, 2008 Washington, D.C. – This week, the Energy and Commerce Committee passed a landmark bill to modernize the medical records system and protect the privacy of patients. The bill, H.R. 6357, the “Protecting Records, Optimizing Treatment, and Easing Communication through Healthcare Technology Act of 2008” or the “PRO(TECH)T Act” is based largely on a bill introduced by Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) last year. The legislation will strengthen the quality of healthcare, reduce medical errors and costs and protect the privacy and security of patient health information in the electronic age. The bill promotes the nationwide adoption of a Health Information Technology (HIT) infrastructure and establishes incentives for doctors, hospitals, insurers, and the government to exchange health information electronically across the country. “This HIT bill has the potential to revolutionize the health care delivery system in our country and will have a powerful effect on enhancing patient safety, reducing medical errors and improving the overall quality of care. We live in the Information Age but healthcare remains mired in a pen-and-paper past. This legislation will accelerate the adoption of HIT and bring our healthcare system into the 21st Century,” said Eshoo. Rep. Eshoo introduced two amendments to the bill, both of which were adopted unanimously. The first amendment would direct the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct a thorough study on the potential of new and emerging health technologies that can better assist seniors and their caregivers while reducing health care costs. In the next decade, 76 million baby boomers will reach retirement age and technologies that allow them to remain independent and in their homes are essential. he second amendment addresses how HIT data should be secured. While the original bill mandated encryption as the preferred method, Rep. Eshoo’s amendment makes the bill technology neutral and allows for innovative ways to protect and secure medical records. The bill now heads to the House floor. # # #
07.23.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo to Host Town Hall Meetings in Scotts Valley and Menlo Park July 23rd, 2008 July 23, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) will hold Town Hall Meetings in Scotts Valley and Menlo Park Saturday, July 26th. She will discuss her work in Congress and on the House Intelligence Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee, including achieving energy independence, combating global warming, providing affordable health care coverage, American competitiveness, and the war in Iraq. All constituents are invited to attend and share their concerns with Rep. Eshoo. The Town Hall Meeting in Menlo Park will be webcast live at https://eshoo.house.gov and Rep. Eshoo will take questions from webcast viewers. Anyone with questions they would like to ask Rep. Eshoo during the Town Hall Meeting should email them to AskAnna@mail.house.gov . These locations are wheelchair accessible and have parking. For more information, including assistance with directions, please visit Rep. Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call her District Office at (650) 323-2984, (831) 335-2020 or (408) 245-2339. Saturday, July 26th Scotts Valley 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. Scotts Valley City Council Chambers 1 Civic Center Drive Scotts Valley, 95066 Menlo Park 1:00 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Menlo Park City Council Chambers 701 Laurel Street Menlo Park, CA 94025 # # #
07.23.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds President’s Signing of 9-1-1 Modernization Act July 23rd, 2008 Wednesday, July 23, 2008 Washington, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement today after President George W. Bush signed H.R. 3403, the New and Emerging Technologies 911 Improvement Act of 2008. The bill, which was cosponsored by Eshoo, will ensure the 911 system can process emergency phone calls made by Internet phone service providers. “As a co-chair of the Congressional E9-1-1 Caucus, one of my top priorities has been to ensure that people have access to our nation’s 911 system when they need it. This bill allows 911 call centers to process emergency calls from people with Internet phone service providers and from people with disabilities who utilize a text based phone system. “This legislation will provide a much needed modernization of the country’s 911 system. As we continue innovating in the field of phone technology, emergency call centers must keep up. The law the President signed today will allow people to access the closest emergency call center quickly and efficiently and it will save lives in the process.” ###
07.17.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Bill to Raise Lifetime Insurance Caps July 17th, 2008 Thursday, July 17, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Health Insurance Coverage Protection Act, a bill that will raise lifetime insurance caps to $10 million. Most people are unaware that their health insurance could expire when they’re healthcare costs have totaled a certain amount, even if it is spent over a lifetime. More than half of all private health insurance policies in the U.S. have lifetime caps on benefits and once the cap is reached, these individuals are released from their healthcare plans and forced to pay their health expenses out of pocket, try to qualify for Medicaid, or seek free care from hospitals or other providers. This is a life-threatening problem for those who have disabilities or chronic illnesses. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation’s 2007 Annual Survey of Employer Health Benefits, over half of employer-sponsored health plans set aggregate lifetime caps on covered benefits, which are most typically set at $2 -$3 million. “This bill addresses a critical lack of coverage for those with disabilities or chronic illnesses. It’s a travesty to think that people are job-hopping in order to switch insurance plans or quitting their job all together to access Medicaid. Increasing the minimum lifetime cap will result in a net savings for federal and state governments because individuals with high medical costs can maintain private health insurance.” “As medical treatment costs continue to increase, the issue of lifetime insurance maximums will become even more important. My legislation will protect individuals who are struggling to pay for the expensive medical treatments that are a result of a disability or chronic illness.” H.R. 6528, the Health Insurance Coverage Protection Act will phase in an increase in the lifetime caps placed on private group health insurance plans. Specifically, the bill: Stipulates the minimum level of a lifetime cap placed on a group health plan at $5 million for the first two years and $10 million in years three and four. Provides for an annual adjustment to a group insurance plan’s lifetime cap based on the consumer price index in subsequent years. Exempts health plans offered to businesses with less than 20 employees, but would require that health plans meeting the parameters of the bill be offered to a small business at the employer’s request. Calls for an Institute of Medicine study to determine the number of individuals that reach their lifetime caps. # # #
07.16.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo to Host Town Hall Meetings in Sunnyvale and Belmont this Saturday July 16th, 2008 July 16,2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) will hold Town Hall Meetings in Sunnyvale and Belmont on Saturday, July 19th. She will discuss her work in Congress and on the House Intelligence Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee, including achieving energy independence, combating global warming, providing affordable health care coverage, American competitiveness, and the war in Iraq. All constituents are invited to attend and share their concerns with Rep. Eshoo. These locations are wheelchair accessible and have parking. For more information, including assistance with directions, please visit Rep. Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov or call her District Office at (650) 323-2984, (831) 335-2020 or (408) 245-2339. Saturday, July 19th Sunnyvale 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. Sunnyvale City Council Chambers 456 West Olive Avenue Sunnyvale, CA 94086 Belmont 1:00 p.m. – 2:30 p.m. Belmont City Council Chambers One Twin Pines Lane Belmont, CA 94002 # # #
07.10.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Comprehensive Health Care Reform Legislation July 10th, 2008 July 10, 2008 Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) joined a bipartisan coalition of members of the House and the Senate to introduce the Healthy Americans Act, legislation to provide affordable health care coverage for all Americans. “The Healthy Americans Act will create a true universal healthcare plan that will cover every American for less than we spend on healthcare today. In fact, the CBO has concluded that this plan will be budget neutral by 2014 and will produce a cost savings thereafter. “In a country as wealthy in research, talent, and resources as the United States, it’s unacceptable that our health care system ranks dead last among other major industrialized nations for quality, access, and efficiency.” The Healthy Americans Act would ensure that every American can afford quality, private health insurance. The majority of people who have insurance today for themselves and their families are insured through their employer. This arrangement limits employees to policies that their employer picks for them. Under the new plan, every American will be able to choose from a wide range of insurance plans, including the very the same plans offered to Members of Congress. Each state, with financial support from the federal government and insurance companies, will establish a Health Help Agency (HHAs). HHAs will lower administrative costs by coordinating payments from employers, individuals and government and they will also provide consumers with unbiased information about competing private health plans and determine premium reductions to ensure that every American can afford their health plan. With the resources to compare plans based on quality, cost and service, individuals-rather than their employers-will be empowered to choose the health plan that works best for them and their families. Employers who wish to continue offering insurance directly to their employees will be allowed to do so as long as the plans are comparable to HHA offered plans. ####
06.20.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes FISA Amendments Act June 20th, 2008 June 20, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement regarding her vote against the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 293 – 129 Statement of Representative Anna G. Eshoo H.R. 6304, the FISA Amendments Act of 2008 U.S. House of Representatives June 20, 2008 Madam Speaker, first I want to commend the Chairman and the Majority leader for the work they’ve done to bring this legislation to the floor of the House. It has been a challenge for all of us on the Intelligence Committee and in the Congress. This legislation is a vast improvement over the previous law, and indeed over the Protect America Act passed by the House last August which I opposed. The bill very importantly establishes a process for electronic surveillance that includes prior approval by the independent courts, and in some respects, this legislation goes even further than the existing FISA statute or the House-passed RESTORE Act in protecting the civil liberties of U.S. persons. Under this bill the Administration would have to seek a court order before conducting surveillance on U.S. persons abroad. Until now and under the Protect America Act, the executive branch could conduct electronic surveillance of U.S. persons without prior judicial approval. This legislation also allows the lawsuits against the telecommunications companies to go forward in a limited fashion, which would not have occurred at all under current law. Having said this I must oppose this bill. Under the original structure of FISA, telecommunications carriers served an important gate-keeping function. They were not permitted to provide access to private communications in the United States unless the government made a lawful request to conduct surveillance, pursuant to a FISA order. For decades, the government has sought and obtained thousands of FISA warrants prior to beginning surveillance, or in urgent cases shortly thereafter. We all remember the shocking news when the President had to acknowledge that his Administration created an illegal, warrantless electronic surveillance program outside of the FISA legal framework. This legislation would essentially grant retroactive immunity to telecommunications carriers who relied on statements made by this Administration that the program was lawful. However, as we’ve seen in numerous instances, this Administration pushed new and aggressive interpretations of the law, including in this area. We all recall vividly the days following 9/11, and the urgency that prevailed, but suspending our laws and allowing the Attorney General to unilaterally issue a “get out of jail free card” is not appropriate under any circumstances. There should be at least some minimal inquiry into whether the telecommunications carriers reliance on the statements made by this Administration was reasonable. If so, then they would be able to assert their existing statutory immunity defenses. Throughout our nation’s history, the judiciary has been the most important check on an overzealous executive, and it is often through the judicial process that we uncover and remedy some of the most egregious executive misconduct. This legislation undermines and effectively nullifies the courts’ ability to hold the Administration accountable for its actions, which likely violated the Constitution. Our nation was founded on the principle of separation of powers. The executive branch should be subject to independent oversight by the judicial branch. This legislation does not go far enough to allow the judicial branch to conduct an independent, reasoned inquiry into this critical issue. Therefore, I must oppose this legislation. # # #
06.13.2008	+ SHARE Loud Commercials Muffled by Eshoo’s CALM Act June 13th, 2008 June 13, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced the Commercial Advertisement Loudness Mitigation Act (CALM Act) to address loud commercials. The bill would direct the FCC to enact within one year rules requiring that television advertisements not be excessively noisy. “Most Americans are not overjoyed to watch television commercials, but they are willing to tolerate them to sustain free over-the-air television. What annoys all of us is the sudden increase of volume when commercials are aired,” Eshoo said. “A TV program has a mix of audio levels. There are loud and soft parts. Nuance is used to build the dramatic effect. Most advertisers don’t want nuance. They want to grab our attention, and to do this, they record every part of it as loud as possible.” “My legislation will reduce the volume of commercials in order to bring them to same level as the programs they accompany.” ###
05.14.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Iraq War Funding, Exit Timeline May 14th, 2008 May 14, 2008 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement in conjunction with Amendment Number 1 to the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2008 which included Iraq War funding: Madam Speaker, I rise in strong opposition to continued war funding for Iraq. I voted against the war and have never wavered in my opposition to the Administration’s misguided policies in Iraq. It has been a long and painful five year journey for the people of our country since the Administration acted preemptively and unilaterally to invade and occupy Iraq. Military leaders, the best minds in foreign and economic policy, and the vast majority of the American people have been resoundingly clear: The Administration’s war-without-end policy is not a strategy for success. As Retired General William Odom, former Director of the National Security Agency under President Reagan and member of the National Security Council under President Carter stated, “Getting out of Iraq is the pre-condition for creating new strategic options.” I cannot support war funding without a clear exit strategy in sight. It is bad for our troops, our country, and our standing in the world. This Amendment failed to pass the House by a vote of 141 Yeas, 149 Nays, and 132 Present. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo issued the following statement in conjunction with Amendment Number 2 to the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2008 which included Iraq redeployment provisions: Madam Speaker, I rise in support of today’s second amendment that includes a clear path out of Iraq, a plan that my constituents and the vast majority of Americans are demanding. More than five years ago the President proclaimed “Mission Accomplished” in Iraq. Paradoxically, he insists on a permanent U.S. presence there. And what exactly has this Administration “accomplished” in Iraq? • More than 4,000 U.S. soldiers have been killed and almost 30,000 injured; • Tens of thousands Iraqi civilian deaths; • An emboldened Iran and new threats from Al Qaeda in the region; • $519 billion taxpayer dollars spent and a future expenditure of some $3 trillion; • A hobbled Iraqi government unable to provide clean water, medical care, jobs for its people, or pass critical oil sharing legislation; • A U.S. military on the verge of collapse and unable to press vigorously the critical fight in Afghanistan or respond to other crises in the world; • And still no exit strategy. With no end game in sight, the Administration and its supporters in Congress are complicit in a continuation of a failed policy which they insist on extending with a blank check policy to accompany it. The President owes it to our brave men and women in Iraq and their families, he owes it to the American people, and he owes it to the citizens of Iraq not to leave this mess for the next President to finish. This bill establishes a clear path out of Iraq. The language requires the Administration to begin redeployment 30 days after enactment and requires Secretary Gates to submit to Congress within 90 days a report detailing plans to reduce and redeploy troops from Iraq. It prohibits sending troops to Iraq that are not assessed as “fully mission capable” of performing their assigned mission, and outlaws the presence of a permanent U.S. base there. Additionally, this provision requires the Iraqi government to match every U.S. dollar spent for training and infrastructure construction and repair. Finally, it prohibits the intelligence community from subjecting detainees to interrogation techniques not authorized by the U.S. Army Field Manual. This will essentially abolish the use of water torture and begin to restore America’s standing in the world community. As a Member of the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence it is vital that we extend the ban on torture to the Intelligence agencies. The President has said he will veto any ban on torture, clearly demonstrating his desire to reserve for himself the right to subject detainees to these horrendous techniques. Congress has an obligation to make it clear that the American people do not believe in torture and will not allow it to continue. This amendment sets a decisive course out of Iraq and begins to shift responsibilities to the Iraqi government. I urge my colleagues to heed the demands of the American people and support this strategy. This Amendment passed the House by a vote of 227 to 196. ####
04.29.2008	+ SHARE Live Webcast for Menlo Park Town Hall Meeting April 29th, 2008 Watch the live webcast of the Menlo Park Town Hall Meeting: Click here for Video (Recommended for High Speed/Broadband Connections) Click here for Audio Only (Recommended for Dial Up Connections) To view the live webcast you need Quicktime Player. To download the player, click here . Click here to ask a question or email AskAnna@mail.house.gov Below, you will find a selection of the handouts Rep. Eshoo has madeavailable for constituents attending and viewing this meeting. Each isavailable in Adobe PDF format. Anna’s LegislationHealthy Americans ActAnna’s Statement on the Introduction of the Healthy Americans Act (PDF) One Pager on the Healthy Americans Act (PDF) Summary of the Healthy Americans Act (PDF) CALM Act, Addressing excessively noisy television commercialsCALM Act Statement(PDF) SF Chronicle CALM Act Article Waterboarding Ban LegislationAnna’s Statement on the Introduction of Waterboarding Ban (PDF) Anna’s Statements on Important IssuesFISA Statement(PDF) Medicaid Cuts Statement(PDF) Net Neutrality Statement(PDF) Wireless Broadband Statement(PDF) First Amendment to Supplemental Statement(PDF) Second Amendment to Supplemental Statement(PDF) Third Amendment to Supplemental Statement(PDF) Palo Alto VA Hospital Statement(PDF) Anna’s LettersLetter to President Bush on Iraq(PDF) Letter to President Bush on California Fires(PDF) Letter to Chairmen Obey and Mollahan on Salmon(PDF) One Pagers/Summaries of Important Issues Veterans and Troops Progress Report(PDF) July 2008 Newsletter(PDF) AMT Relief Act Summary(PDF) Energy/Drilling/Gas Prices Summary (PDF) Education and Labor Accomplishments Pamphlet (PDF) DTV Transition InformationDTV Transition FAQ DTV Coupon Application (PDF) Economic Stimulus Package InformationEconomic Stimulus Package FAQEconomic Stimulus Package Information for Social Security Recipients Economic Stimulus Package Information for Veterans Benefits Recipients Economic Stimulus Package Information for Railroad Retirement Recipients Economic Stimulus Package Information for Low-Wage Workers Economic Stimulus Package Information for Military Members Serving in a Combat Zone Economic Stimulus Package Information for Military Families Housing InformationMortgage Payments Sending You Reeling? Here’s What to Do. FTC Facts: Foreclosure Rescue Scams Making Sure Your Mortgage Payments Count Buying a Home FTC Consumer Alert: Deceptive Mortgage Ads
04.25.2008	+ SHARE House Passes Bill to Expand Federal Small Business April 25th, 2008 April 25, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Today the House of Representatives passed legislation to expand and reauthorize the Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs by a vote of 368 to 43. The SBIR/STTR Reauthorization Act (H.R. 5819) extends the programs for two years and implements important reforms to increase funding levels, clarify the eligibility of venture-backed small businesses, and target research projects that will address our nation’s critical energy needs. “The SBIR and STTR programs are vital to innovation and the growth of small business in America,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto). “This legislation updates these programs to ensure that small businesses and venture-backed firms continue to play a central role in our global competitiveness and in the preeminence of the U.S. research enterprise.” The bill clarifies that small businesses with venture capital funding will continue to be eligible to participate in the SBIR and STTR programs. Hundreds of companies in the 14th Congressional district have been competitively awarded more than $200 million in SBIR and STTR research grants over the past ten years. “The importance of fostering public-private partnerships cannot be underestimated,” said Eshoo. “The Speaker’s Innovation Agenda recognized the importance of these partnerships, as well as the roles of small business and venture capital in American competitiveness. Reauthorizing the SBIR and STTR programs ensures that the government provides the resources needed to transition scientific discoveries made in U.S. research labs into new therapies and technologies.” # # #
04.24.2008	+ SHARE House Passes Bill to Stop Medicaid Cuts with Veto-Proof Majority April 24th, 2008 April 23, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted for H.R. 5613, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act, which places a one-year moratorium on seven Medicaid regulations that would cut more than $50 billion dollars in Medicaid payments to states. Eshoo is a cosponsor of the bill, which passed the House by a veto-proof margin of 349 to 62. “I’m very pleased and relieved that the House passed this legislation by such a convincing margin,” Eshoo said. “The regulations adopted by the Bush Administration threaten states, communities and families with cuts which will compromise the healthcare system for families and children. Over 2,000 organizations and Governor Schwarzenegger support the effort.” “With today’s vote, we’ve sent the strongest ‘hands off’ message to the President: ‘Your veto pen will not stop this bill from becoming law.'” ###
04.16.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Free Wireless Broadband Legislation April 16th, 2008 April 17, 2008 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and Rep. Christopher Cannon (R- UT) introduced the Wireless Internet Nationwide for Families Act (WIN) which, if enacted, would foster the deployment of a new nation-wide wireless broadband network. The WIN Act mandates that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction certain spectrum that is currently lying fallow. The winner of the auction would be required to build and complete a network within 10 years that must provide coverage to at least 95% of our country. The licensee would also be required to provide service for free to consumers and public safety users. The WIN Act also requires the licensee to deny access to obscene and indecent material on the free service tier. “The cost of broadband service is a barrier for too many families who want broadband, with more than 100 million Americans without broadband at home,” Eshoo said. “By every measure, the U.S. is losing the international broadband race and our competitiveness as a nation is at stake. The Innovation Agenda made a commitment to spur affordable access to broadband and this bill will go a long way to providing universal broadband access.” “The results of the 700 MHz auction disappointed many of us who hoped that a new entrant would emerge. 70% of the spectrum auctioned went to only two carriers. While the auction required under this legislation is open to anyone, it is my hope that the bold conditions of requiring free, family friendly service will encourage the entry of a new kind of national broadband service provider.” ####
04.16.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Net Neutrality Statement for F.C.C. Hearing April 16th, 2008 April 17, 2008 Washington, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement in conjunction with today’s Federal Communications Commission hearing at Stanford University: “I’d like to extend a warm welcome to F.C.C. Chairman Martin, each of the Commissioners, the distinguished panelists, and my constituents of California’s 14th Congressional District. I regret not being able to be with you at Stanford due to the House of Representatives being in session. Today’s F.C.C. hearing on network management and access to emerging technology is extraordinarily important and there is no better place in our country to hold such a hearing than in the heart of Silicon Valley. I commend the Commission for holding these hearings throughout the country and for the leadership of Commissioners Copps and Adelstein who have done so much to take the Commission to communities throughout the country where dozens of media ownership public hearings have been held. These hearings have now become commonplace for the Commission and there are direct discussions with citizens who ultimately will be affected by the decisions they make. Net Neutrality and open access both embrace the value of openness which users of networks have enjoyed for years until recently. Openness of the Internet has actually been its hallmark since it was created – the ability of any person anywhere in the world to reach out and access any content that someone else has made available on the Web. Openness also permitted consumers to connect the phone of their choice to the old telephone network. The openness of the Internet revolutionized business, it changed our economy, and it has transformed our everyday lives. Even with all the rapid change we’ve seen in the development of the Internet, one thing hasn’t changed – most Americans have little choice over how they can get onto the Net. 98% of Americans have only their Bell or cable company as choices for broadband access. The failure of competition for high-speed broadband access permits broadband operators to take advantage of this chokepoint and dictate what content will be available to whom, and at what speeds. They want to control which sites consumers will be able to download music from, where they will be able to watch live video and which blogs will have full access to the best service. This threatens the very existence of today’s Internet. That’s why I believe that Net Neutrality legislation should be enacted. I applauded the Commission’s decision to mandate certain open access provisions for the C Block in the 700 MHz Auction which was won by Verizon. But the C Block represents only the smallest sliver of our public airwaves with this mandate. The F.C.C. should consider applying open access provisions on spectrum currently dedicated to mobile services. The Congress has granted the F.C.C. expansive authority which it has used sparingly to promote openness. The Commission should closely examine network management practices. There are reasonable needs today relative to managing the network to address congestion caused by insufficient bandwidth. But such intercession into a user’s access to the Internet should not result in the outright blocking of content or applications that do not harm the network. Today’s debate is important because the value of sharing information taps into a deep human desire to communicate with one another. Thank you for coming to the 14th Congressional District today. I look forward to the important outcomes of this hearing which will benefit my constituents and our country.” ###
04.09.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Halt Medicaid Cuts April 9th, 2008 April 9, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) joined her colleagues on the Energy & Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health in unanimously approving H.R. 5613, the Protecting the Medicaid Safety Net Act, which would place a one-year moratorium on seven Medicaid regulations that threaten to cut more than $50 billion dollars in Medicaid payments to states. Eshoo is a cosponsor of the bill. “In the current economy, states are hurting, and none more so than California which stands to lose $12.5 billion over five years under these regulations,” Eshoo said. “This meat cleaver approach would impact hospitals, families, and disabled kids in my congressional district by tens of millions of dollars. Governor Schwarzenegger, along with over 2,000 organizations, has urged Congress to pass this bill and I’m pleased we’ve taken this important initial step today.” The bill now moves to the full Energy and Commerce Committee where a vote is expected next week. The regulations which would take effect without the moratoria would: 1. Restrict Medicaid payments to government safety net providers. 2. Eliminate Medicaid payment for Medicaid-covered school-based administration and specialized medical transportation services for children. 3. Restrict payment for rehabilitation services, including eliminating currently-available coverage of rehabilitation services that help people with disabilities gain or maintain function. 4. Severely curtail the ability of states to provide case management services that enable people with disabilities to live in the community. 5. Eliminate all Medicaid payment for graduate medical education payments that fund training of physicians who care for the special needs of Medicaid beneficiaries. 6. Eliminate coverage of many hospital outpatient department services, including services that keep beneficiaries from unnecessary emergency room use. 7. Rewrite rules for allowable provider taxes. # # #
04.02.2008	+ SHARE House Votes to Expand Northern California’s National Marine Sanctuaries April 2nd, 2008 April 1, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday the House of Representatives unanimously passed legislation sponsored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to expand and add new protections for the National Marine Sanctuaries of Northern California. The Gulf of the Farallones and Cordell Bank National Marine Sanctuaries Boundary Modification and Protection Act (H.R. 1187), adds 1,200 nautical square miles to the two sanctuaries. The legislation also adds protective measures to the sanctuaries at the Gulf of the Farallones, Cordell Bank, and Monterey Bay. “This is an important achievement for our region’s precious marine habitats and coastal areas,” said Rep. Eshoo. “This legislation will preserve these natural landmarks for future generations.” The House legislation makes the existing prohibition on oil and gas drilling in the sanctuaries permanent, bans commercial aquaculture except for existing shellfish farms, and prohibits vessels from dumping waste and bilge into these sensitive areas. The provisions of the legislation will improve the water quality and ensure that we maintain thriving populations of fish, whales, migratory birds, and other wildlife. The bill does not add any additional fishing restrictions. “The National Marine Sanctuaries are an important resource that must be protected,” said Eshoo. “This year we have seen a disturbing collapse in the salmon population in Northern California, highlighting again the vital importance of maintaining the integrity of our marine habitats.” Supporters of the bill include the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Natural Resources Defense Council, Sierra Club, Environmental Defense, The Ocean Conservancy, Environment America, the Pacific Coast Federation of Fisherman’s Associations, and Trout Unlimited. # # #
03.14.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo, Barton Introduce Pathway for Biosimilars Act March 14th, 2008 March 13, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-California) introduced the Pathway for Biosimilars Act, legislation to create a regulatory pathway for FDA approval of “biosimilars” or “follow-on” biologics with Rep. Joe Barton (R-Texas), Ranking Member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee. “This legislation will establish a regulatory pathway for biosimilars that will promote competition and lower prices, and protect patient safety, drug efficacy and sound science,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The most exciting developments in modern medical science are occurring in the field of biotechnology, and this legislation will ensure that the amazing cures and treatments biotech delivers today will continue and more patients will have access to these revolutionary therapies.” Many of the original patents in the biotechnology industry are beginning to expire and several patient groups, biotech companies, and healthcare providers have called on Congress to provide a regulatory pathway for follow-on biologics or biosimilars to be approved by the FDA. The Pathway for Biologics Act provides an abbreviated pathway for approval of biosimilars based in part on the safety and efficacy record of an innovative reference product. The Pathway for Biologics Act permits the FDA to make a determination as to whether the biosimilar is interchangeable with the reference product, and gives the FDA the flexibility to determine what clinical testing – if any – is required for approval. To promote continued innovation in biotechnology, the legislation provides 12 years of data exclusivity to allow innovators to market their products and recoup their investments in research and development. Finally, to prevent uncertainty and delays over patent litigation, the bill establishes a process for resolution of patent disputes prior to the time biosimilar products are eligible to come onto the market. “This legislation will protect patients, promote innovation, and prevent unnecessary litigation,” said Eshoo. “I’m pleased to have my colleague Rep. Joe Barton as a partner on this important bipartisan effort and we will work together to enact this legislation before the end of this Congress.” # # # Read Rep. Eshoo’s introduction of the Pathway for Biosimilars Act here Read a summary of H.R. 5629, the Pathway for Biosimilars Act here Read the text of the bill here
03.12.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo calls for GAO Evaluation of Intelligence Community Security Clearances March 12th, 2008 March 12, 2008 Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Representative Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, and Representative Silvestre Reyes (D-TX), Chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, sent a request to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) asking for a formal evaluation of Intelligence Community security clearance processes and the Director of National Intelligence’s pilot project for security clearance reform. On February 27, 2008, the Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management held an open hearing on security clearance reform, receiving testimony from a number of government witnesses. Though the witnesses testified to improvements in security clearances, it remained apparent that significant work is left to be done to improve the clearance regime and congressional insight into it. Witnesses did not identify the metrics used to evaluate the quality of the current security clearance process in the Intelligence Community, nor of the pilot program. In subsequent testimony before the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Government Affairs, outgoing Comptroller General David Walker said that security clearances are “an area where I think we could add value, not just to the Congress, but to the DNI.” GAO considers clearances a “high-risk” area deserving of its attention and resources. “The slow pace of security clearances has cost our country a fortune, both in terms of talent lost and dollars spent. Prospective employees aren’t always willing or able to wait six months for a clearance. They find new jobs and this country is left holding the bag. We need to do better. Both the House and Senate have held hearings on this issue. Asking GAO to establish a baseline of where the IC stands is the right way to start,” said Representative Eshoo. “It’s time Congress took a hard look at Intelligence Community security clearances. GAO has already done work on DOD clearances, so it has the experience and the expertise needed to evaluate these processes. Congress and the IC will certainly benefit from this evaluation,” said Representative Reyes. The two requests are the first made by either of the Congressional Intelligence Committees since 2002, when the House and Senate Intelligence Committees requested that GAO review of the government’s ability to combat a WMD terrorist attack against the Unites States. # # #
03.12.2008	+ SHARE House Passes Eshoo Legislation to Increase 9-1-1 Awareness March 12th, 2008 March 11, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C. -Yesterday by a vote of 381-0 the House of Representatives passed a resolution sponsored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to increase national awareness about the importance and appropriate use of 9-1-1 services. The legislation, H.Res. 537, supports the designation of one month each year as “National 9-1-1 Education Month.” The designation would encourage the development of annual public awareness events, public advertising campaigns, targeted outreach to schools, and training activities for parents and teachers to ensure that all Americans can access these critical services in an emergency. “Calling 9-1-1 is the universal lifeline for people in distress and often provides the first alert to public safety professionals about natural disasters and national security threats,” said Eshoo. “This legislation will help everyone know how and when to use 9-1-1, including vulnerable populations.” Eshoo and Rep. John Shimkus (R-Illinois), the House co-chairs of the Congressional E9-1-1 Caucus, introduced the legislation on July 11, 2007 and it was cosponsored by 57 House Members. The legislation has the strong support of the E9-1-1 Institute; the National Emergency Number Association (NENA); the National Association of State 9-1-1 Administrators (NASNA); the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO); CTIA – The Wireless Association; 9-1-1 for Kids; and COMCARE-Emergency Response Alliance. # # #
02.14.2008	+ SHARE Reps. Eshoo, Thompson Introduce Waterboarding Ban February 14th, 2008 February 14, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA 14th), Chairwoman of the Intelligence Community Management Subcommittee of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, with Mike Thompson (D-CA 1st), Chairman of the Terrorism, Human Intelligence, Analysis and Counterintelligence Subcommittee, introduced a bill to ban waterboarding by the United States Government. “It’s time to make a clear statement for the world to hear and understand, and for the Bush Administration to obey: Waterboarding is torture and Americans will not participate in it. “For this reason, today we have introduced a bill to ban waterboarding once and for all. The bill makes clear that waterboarding is torture, and cannot be used by anyone in the United States government, including the CIA. “As General David Petraeus stated: ‘What sets us apart from our enemies . . . is how we behave. In everything we do, we must observe the standards and values that dictate that we treat noncombatants and detainees with dignity and respect. While we are warriors, we are also all human beings.’ “Senator John McCain stated: ‘People who have worn the uniform and had the experience know that this is a terrible and odious practice and should never be condoned in the U.S. We are a better nation than that.’ “We agree. But the Bush Administration has consistently refused to take waterboarding off the table permanently, and that’s why it’s time for Congress to step in. “Our bill will ban waterboarding once and for all. Anyone who waterboards in the future will be subject to criminal prosecution. Period. “Criminalizing waterboarding is not a new policy for the United States. In 1947, the United States prosecuted a Japanese military officer for carrying out a form of waterboarding on a U.S. civilian during the Second World War, securing a conviction and a sentence of 15 years of hard labor. The United States military has prosecuted American military personnel for subjecting prisoners to waterboarding, including sentencing a U.S. Army major to 10 years at hard labor for subjecting an insurgent to waterboarding in the Philippines during the Spanish-American War. “For those who might say that this bill will lead to the prosecution of officers who relied on the guidance of the Justice Department, we note that our bill is prospective. “Now, from this day forward, let the world know that the United States of America will practice what it has always been revered for: Dignity, democracy and the rule of law.” # # #
02.11.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo’s Statement on the Passing of Rep. Tom Lantos February 11th, 2008 February 11, 2008 Palo Alto, Calif. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today on the passing of her colleague Congressman Tom Lantos: “The Congress and our country have lost a great champion of human rights today. For almost three decades Tom Lantos was the most eloquent voice for the voiceless here and around the world. “Tom’s life story is an American story, having survived the Holocaust and become a Member of Congress. His leadership for working families and the environment earned him the regard of his constituents and the respect of his colleagues. “My prayers are with wife Annette, their daughters Annette and Katrina, and the entire Lantos family as well as his dedicated staff.” # # #
02.08.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces $31 Million for Construction Projects for the Palo Alto VA Hospital February 8th, 2008 February 8, 2008 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) announced today construction projects totaling $31 million have been approved for the Palo Alto and Menlo Park VA facilities. The funding for new construction was made possible by the largest single increase in the 77-year history of the Department of Veterans Affairs by Congress. “The Palo Alto VA is the jewel for the 14th Congressional District and I’m pleased to announce these funds will directly benefit our nation’s veterans in critical areas,” Eshoo said. “Our nation is protected every day by world-class men and women in uniform that deserve world-class medical treatment. The construction projects are a tangible result of the historic VA funding increases passed by Congress last year.” The funds address construction needs of the Polytrauma Rehabilitation Center (PRC) which is designed to care for the most seriously injured soldiers from Iraq and Afghanistan. Additionally there was funding included for Gero-Psychology Unit, Seismic upgrades to Building 51, and the Teleradiology facility. ###
01.15.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Talks Policy with Google Chairman and CEO Dr. Eric Schmidt January 15th, 2008 January 15, 2008 Mountain View, Calif. – Watch Rep. Anna Eshoo’s fireside chat with Dr. Eric Schmidt here.
01.15.2008	+ SHARE Eshoo Website Wins Award in House of Representatives January 15th, 2008 January 14, 2008 Washington, D.C. – The website of Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) was singled out today by the Congressional Management Foundation, a non-profit, non-partisan management consulting and research organization in Washington, D.C., for being one of the best in Congress. Of the 438 House Member Web sites analyzed, Eshoo’s website was judged to be in the top 10. Eshoo’s Web site (https://eshoo.house.gov/), was one of 618 evaluated in The 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill which analyzed Web sites of 537 House Members and Senators, 68 Committee sites, and 13 Leadership sites. “Today more than ever the Internet is used as the primary tool for millions of Americans to access information,” Eshoo said. “As a member of Congress, it’s important to provide a website that serves my constituents with timely information and a convenient way to contact me with questions or concerns. I’m proud that the Congressional Management Foundation has judged my website to be one of the best in Congress. My constituents certainly deserve the best.” The Gold Mouse Report and Awards are part of the Congressional Management Foundation’s broader research project “Connecting to Congress” funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, University of California-Riverside and Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. Websites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks that extensive research has identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. Using these building blocks, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners at Harvard, Ohio State, and the University of California-Riverside that would be fair and objective, while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor’s experience on a Web site. A full copy of the report, the 2007 Gold Mouse Report: Lessons from the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation’s Web site at www.cmfweb.org. # # #
01.04.2008	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Statement on Rep. Lantos’ Retirement January 4th, 2008 January 3, 2008 Palo Alto, Calif. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement today on the announcement by her colleague Congressman Tom Lantos that he is retiring at the end of his term due to illness: “It is with great sadness that I learned Tom will be retiring due to illness. Tom and I represent one of the most remarkable areas in our country.” “For almost three decades Congressman Lantos has been the most eloquent and respected voices in Congress for human rights. His leadership for working families and the environment has earned him the lasting regard of his constituents.” “My prayers are with Tom, his wife Annette, their daughters Annette and Katrina, and the entire Lantos family at this difficult time.” # # #
12.20.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation Strengthening Public Interest Obligations on Broadcasters December 20th, 2007 December 19, 2007Eshoo Introduces Legislation Strengthening Public Interest Obligations on Broadcasters December 19, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-California 14th) introduced the Broadcast Licensing in the Public Interest Act today. This bill would strengthen public interest obligations on broadcasters. “I’ve become increasingly concerned about the effect of media ownership on our democracy, Eshoo said. “The corporatization of our media and the massive consolidation of media outlets are the root cause of the erosion in public discourse in this country.” Television stations devote less than one half of one percent of total programming time to local public affairs. Four out of ten commercial TV stations surveyed in 2003 aired no local public affairs programs. 92% of the election coverage aired by the national networks in the two weeks before Election Day 2004 was devoted to the presidential contest leaving only 8% for local elections and referendums. Yesterday, the Federal Communications Commission relaxed its long-standing cross ownership rules amid public outcry to maintain the ban on owning a radio or television station and a newspaper in the same market. “I believe relaxed ownership rules and rubber-stamped postcard license renewals have contributed to the degradation of television and radio programming,” said Eshoo, a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. “When a broadcaster receives a license they are investing in public responsibility and service. I believe we need to reinvigorate the public interest requirement on broadcasters.” The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, requires broadcasters to serve the “public interest, convenience, and necessity.” However the Act does not specify how the “public interest” is best served. The Broadcast Licensing in the Public Interest Act requires broadcasters to demonstrate a dedication to specified public interest obligations. The bill requires broadcast licensees seeking a renewal to demonstrate that they have made a dedication to civic affairs of its community and to local news gathering. The bill also mandates that broadcasters air locally produced programming and make a commitment to provide a public presentation of the views of candidates and issues related to local, statewide or national elections. Finally, the bill mandates that broadcasters provide quality educational programming for children and reduces a broadcast license term from eight years to three. The three-year term will bring greater oversight and scrutiny to license renewals. # # #
12.20.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Strengthens Consumer Safety December 20th, 2007 December 19, 2007Eshoo Strengthens Consumer Safety December 19, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted today to pass H.R. 4040, the Consumer Product Safety Modernization Act. The bill passed the House 407 to 0 and is a significant step forward in protecting American consumers from dangerous products in the marketplace. “This has been called the ‘Year of the Recall’ because the Consumer Product Safety Commission has failed to keep harmful and sometimes lethal products off the market. Lax enforcement and a failure of leadership at the CPSC have let dangerous products reach the shelves of our nation’s stores and the homes of American families. This is unacceptable” said Eshoo. The bill enhances consumer protection by requiring mandatory safety standards for nursery products, third-party testing for children’s products, prohibiting the sale and export of recalled goods, improves public notice of recalls, banning industry-funded travel for the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC), and increasing CPSC funding to hire more staff and improve testing facilities. H.R. 4040 was voted out of the Energy and Commerce Committee on December 18th and included an important Eshoo amendment to provide the CSPC mandatory recall authority to keep the most harmful products away from consumers. “As our chief regulatory agency for product safety, the CPSC needs the muscle to protect consumers from the most egregious violations in a timely and effective way. The CPSC is often the only entity standing between consumers… kids, the elderly and others… and dangerous products that can harm or even kill them. The Commission should have every tool at its disposal to protect the public from imminent harm from consumer products,” said Eshoo. H.R. 4040 also sets new lead standards for children’s products, eventually lowering the acceptable level of lead in these products to 100 parts per million within four years. Representative Eshoo offered an amendment in Committee to set a stricter standard of 40 parts per million, in line with the recommendations of the American Academy of Pediatrics, but the amendment was rejected by a vote of 18-26. “H.R. 4040 responds to an epidemic of substandard and dangerous toys on American store shelves and in homes across the country,” said Eshoo. “I’m pleased the House acted today to protect consumers – especially children – and I look forward to getting a strong consumer protection bill signed into law.” # # #
12.19.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Hails Passage of Landmark Energy Bill December 19th, 2007 December 18, 2007Eshoo Hails Passage of Landmark Energy Bill December 18, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) lauded passage of sweeping energy legislation passed by the House today on vote of 314 to 100. The bill will now go to the President for his signature. “The bill the House passed today remains the most significant achievement in energy policy in a generation,” Eshoo said. “This bill makes an extraordinary contribution to national security by reducing our dependence on foreign oil through the first legislative increase in vehicle fuel economy standards in 32-years and a requirement for the use of new, renewable fuels for cars and trucks.” “These changes as well as significant energy efficiency requirements for appliances and buildings will also make the first down payment on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This includes a provision that I sponsored which improve the efficiency of computer data centers” “I’m disappointed that the Senate stripped out several important provisions, including a requirement that 15% of the electricity generated in the U.S. comes from renewable resources and that will repeal tax incentives for oil and gas companies and channel them into developing new sources of renewable energy. These provisions must be revisited and adopted.” These are the groundbreaking achievements in the energy policy: Strengthens National Security Increases vehicle fuel efficiency standard to 35 miles per gallon in 2020-the first congressional increase in 32 years. Slashes U.S. oil consumption by more than 4 million barrels per day by 2030-more than twice our daily imports from the Persian Gulf. Expands American-grown biofuels to 36 billion gallons in 2022. Reduces Global Warming Cuts greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 by up to 24 percent of what the U.S. needs to do to help save the planet. Increased vehicle fuel efficiency has the equivalent effect of taking 28 million vehicles off the road in 2020. Increases the efficiency of buildings, homes, appliances, and lighting, reducing emissions 75 percent as much as increasing vehicle efficiency. Makes an historic commitment to American homegrown renewable energy that reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Lowers Energy Costs Increased vehicle fuel efficiency will save American families $700 to $1,000 a year at the pump. New fuel efficiency standards will produce $22 billion in net annual savings for consumers in 2020. Building, appliance, and lighting efficiency will save consumers $400 billion through 2030. Creates Jobs Massive development of biofuels and cutting-edge energy research will create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Job training will prepare workers for 3 million new ‘green’ jobs over 10 years. Small businesses will be renewable energy leaders. # # #
12.06.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds Passage of Landmark Energy Bill December 6th, 2007 December 6, 2007Eshoo Lauds Passage of Landmark Energy Bill WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today praised the House of Representatives’ passage of H.R. 6, the Energy Independence and Security Act, on a vote of 235 to 181. Rep. Eshoo’s statement follows: “This is the first forward-looking energy bill to come before Congress in a generation and it is sorely needed because our nation and our planet are at risk because of our dependence on fossil fuel. We are doing nothing less than asserting America’s leadership in solving our own and the world’s most significant energy and environmental problems. Today, our national security is at risk because the U.S. is increasingly beholden to foreign governments for the energy that fuels our economy, and greenhouse gas emissions are contributing to greater global insecurity due to changes in the climate and their repercussions. Consumers see the effects of dependence in their pocketbooks each time they fill up. Our interests in the Middle East are dictated by our need for oil. Throughout the world we see the environmental impact of the dependence on fossil fuel on our environment … whether it’s an oil spill or more intense hurricanes or droughts. Today we’re taking a historic step in changing this dynamic. The auto fuel efficiency provisions in this bill reduce our oil consumption by more than 4 million barrels per day by 2030 – more than twice the amount of oil we currently import from the Persian Gulf. The bill will also reduce global warming pollution by the equivalent of 300 coal-fired power plants. By 2030 we will cut emissions by up to 35 percent of what scientific experts say we must achieve to prevent climate catastrophe. Many said it would be impossible to reach agreement on raising fuel economy standards and requirements for renewable energy, but this bill delivers. It raises fuel economy standards for cars and trucks to an average of 35 miles per gallon by 2020, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by the equivalent of 28 million cars, and saving consumers up to $1,000 once it is fully implemented. The bill also requires 15% of the electricity produced in the U.S. to be generated from renewable resources, and it sets goals for the use for renewable fuels – 36 million gallons by 2022. These are enormous steps, and combined with provisions on energy efficiency, including a provision I authored on computer data center efficiency, this bill will reshape energy production and consumption. It will foster the development of new energy development that could make the U.S. an exporter of energy technology instead of an importer of oil and gas. This is the bill I’ve been waiting 15 years to vote for and I’m thrilled the moment has arrived.” The bill now moves to the Senate. After Senate passage it will go to the President for his signature. # # #
12.06.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Chairs Hearing on the Director of National Intelligence’s 500-Day Plan December 6th, 2007 December 6, 2007Eshoo Chairs Hearing on the Director of National Intelligence’s 500-Day Plan December 6, 2007 WASHINGON, D.C. – The Intelligence Community Management Subcommittee of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI), chaired by Anna Eshoo (D-California 14th) today received testimony on the Director of National Intelligence’s 500-Day plan. “Director McConnell established a plan for making progress on intelligence reform. While I’m pleased that the DNI is pursuing a good set of priorities, progress towards achieving them has been mixed. Most of the initiatives in the 500-day plan are simply that, plans – we want to see results.” Eshoo said. In 2004 Congress passed legislation that created a Director of National Intelligence (DNI) to lead this operational and cultural integration. Shortly after he was confirmed as DNI, Director Mike McConnell published a 100-Day Plan “to demonstrate progress and build momentum for integration and transformation across the Community.” In today’s hearing, Eshoo’s subcommittee examined the accomplishments under that plan as well as progress to date towards the goals of the DNI’s follow-on “500-Day Plan.” The Subcommittee heard testimony first from Dr. Don Kerr, the Principal Deputy DNI, and Mr. David Shedd, the Deputy DNI for Policy, Plans, and Requirements, who spoke on the DNI’s progress on the 500-day plan. The Subcommittee then heard testimony from outside experts on the DNI’s progress in achieving the goals established by the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004. These witnesses included: former Indiana congressman Tim Roemer, who served on the 9/11 Commission; Ambassador Robert Hutchings, diplomat-in-residence at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs at Princeton and former Chair of the National Intelligence Council; Ms. Suzanne Spaulding, former HPSCI minority staff director, the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence’s deputy staff director and general counsel, and member of various commissions that have studied the intelligence community; and Mr. Samuel Visner, the Deputy Chairman of the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association’s (AFCEA) Intelligence Committee. “Providing careful oversight of these issues is critical,” observed Eshoo. “That is why members of the Subcommittee are committed to working together to track progress and support the efforts of the Intelligence Community to transform its way of doing business.” # # #
11.26.2007	+ SHARE Retired U.S. Commander of U.S. Forces in Iraq Backs Withdrawal November 26th, 2007 November 25, 2007 Retired U.S. Commander of U.S. Forces in Iraq Backs Withdrawal November 25, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Lieutenant General Ricardo S. Sanchez, U.S. Army, retired, who served as the top American commander of U.S. Armed Forces in Iraq following the U.S invasion in March 2003, spoke in support of Democratic plans for withdrawal on Saturday. In the Democratic weekly address, General Sanchez acknowledged the Bush administration’s recent security gains in Iraq but called for a new direction towards regional stability focusing on diplomacy and political strategy: “Under the Administration’s recently announced plan, U.S. force levels in Iraq in July 2008 will be at about the same level they were in November 2006, when the American people demanded a change in direction in our Iraq policy. “Our Army and Marine Corps are struggling with changing deployment schedules that are disrupting combat readiness training and straining the patience and daily lives of military families. It will take the Army at least a decade to repair the damage done to its full spectrum readiness, which is at its lowest level since the Vietnam War. In the meantime, the ability of our military to fully execute our national security strategy will be called into doubt, producing what is, in my judgment, unacceptable strategic risk. “Although we cannot withdraw precipitously from Iraq, we must move rapidly to minimize our force presence. Shifting the primary mission of our troops away from combat will lead to a smaller U.S. military presence, and a greater obligation on the part of the Iraqis to take the lead in solving their country’s problems. Having fewer American troops in Iraq will also allow us to devote more resources to refit our ground forces to respond to different contingencies in other parts of the world. However, for as long as we have troops in Iraq, the American people must insist that our deploying men and women are properly trained and properly equipped for the missions they will be asked to perform. “The funding bill passed by the House of Representatives last week, with a bipartisan vote, makes the proper preparation of our deploying troops a priority and requires the type of shift in their mission that will allow their numbers to be reduced substantially. Furthermore, the bill puts America on the path to regaining our moral authority by requiring all government employees to abide by the Army Field Manual on interrogations, which is in compliance with the Geneva Conventions. America must accept nothing less. “It is well past time to adopt a new approach in Iraq that will improve chances to produce stability in the Middle East. I urge our political leaders to put aside partisan considerations and unite to lessen the burden our troops and their families have been under for nearly five years now. Strengthening America’s security is a burden that must be shared by all Americans. “America must mobilize our diplomatic, political, and economic power to achieve the reconciliation necessary to roll back DeBaathification and to advance the political progress in Iraq. Anything less is a dereliction of duty. “This is retired Lieutenant General Ricardo S. Sanchez, and thank you for listening.” # # #
11.16.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Presses US Coast Guard for San Mateo County Coastside Monitoring November 16th, 2007 November 15, 2007 Eshoo Presses US Coast Guard for San Mateo County Coastside Monitoring November 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna Eshoo has called for an immediate and full evaluation of the impact of the Cosco Busan oil spill on San Mateo County beaches and bayside property and has urged the Coast Guard to conduct a full evaluation of the status and the risks facing the county’s marine assets. Following several conferences between Eshoo and her staff and Coast Guard officials, Rear Admiral Craig Bone, commandant of the Coast Guard’s Bay Area operations, has directed flyovers of San Mateo County today and has sent assessment teams as far south as Año Nuevo State Reserve, widely known as the breeding ground for the endangered elephant seal. Initial reports are there is no damage to the San Mateo County Coast from the oil spill, but Congresswoman Eshoo has pressed the Coast Guard to maintain continuous monitoring of the beaches and bay fronts. “The San Mateo Coastline is known the world over for the Fitzgerald Marine Reserve, surfing, fishing, and the home of the elephant seals at Año Nuevo. With the swift tidal action in the Bay, I think we need to have the Coast Guard operating in a proactive role.” “Additionally, many volunteers have gathered information for us to relay to the US Coast Guard.” San Mateo County residents and officials expressed concern about reports of oil balls on the Pacifica coast. While most of the oil went north of San Mateo County, a deep concern remains about the threat to local marine reserves Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, a leader in the House of Representatives on environmental protection and a former Member of the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission (BCDC) and the Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee, has been monitoring the impacts of the Cosco Busan Oil Spill since it happened. Rep. Eshoo attended the tour and briefing organized by Speaker Pelosi on November 12th with the agencies responsible for the response. Multiple investigations are ongoing as to how this could have happened including congressional oversight ###
11.13.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Stop Tax Increase on 109,964 Families in the 14th District November 13th, 2007 November 9, 2007Eshoo Votes to Stop Tax Increase on 109,964 Families in the 14th District November 9, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for legislation to prevent nearly 109,964 families in the 14th Congressional District from paying higher income taxes next year under the alternative minimum tax (AMT). The House approved H.R. 3996, the Temporary Tax Relief Act of 2007, by a vote of 216 to 193. The AMT was enacted in 1969 to ensure that taxpayers with very high-incomes could not escape paying taxes through loopholes and tax shelters. Because it was never indexed for inflation, the AMT threatens millions of middle-class taxpayers each year with a growing tax burden. “The AMT is a tax run amok because it now targets middle-class families who were never intended to be subject to this tax,” Eshoo said. “While this bill isn’t the ultimate solution, it will reduce or eliminate taxes under the AMT for 109,964 families in my district and would prevent an additional 15 million across the country from having to pay the AMT next year.” Families in the 14th District are especially vulnerable to the AMT. The District had the third-highest percentage of taxpayers subject to the AMT in 2005 (11%) and the third-highest additional tax liability ($7,951 per return). H.R. 3996 also extends several tax provisions to enable working families to keep more of what they earn. The bill will: Provide 30 million homeowners who don’t itemize their returns with a standard deduction for property taxes. Help 12.5 million families with children by expanding eligibility for the refundable Child Tax Credit. Benefit 11 million families by extending the optional deduction for state and local sales taxes. Help 4.5 million families afford college with a tuition tax credit for qualified education expenses. Promote innovation and high-paying jobs by extending the R&D tax credit for one year. ##
11.07.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Protect Americans from Employment Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation November 7th, 2007 November 7, 2007Eshoo Votes to Protect Americans from Employment Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation November 7, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for historic legislation to protect Americans from employment discrimination based on sexual orientation. The House voted 235 to 184 to approve H.R. 3685, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA). “Sexual orientation should never be a factor in deciding whether to hire, fire, promote, demote or compensate an employee,” Eshoo said. “Passing ENDA is a major victory for the civil rights of all Americans and one that helps fulfill the Constitution’s guarantee of equality.” Eshoo has been an original cosponsor of ENDA since it was first introduced in 1994 and has supported the legislation ever since then. Federal law currently prohibits workplace discrimination based on race, religion, gender, national origin, age and disability. Yet in 30 states it remains legal to fire an otherwise qualified employee based on their sexual orientation. A recent study in the Journal of Applied Psychology found that 37 percent of gay and lesbian workers have faced discrimination based on sexual orientation. ENDA prohibits employers, employment agencies and labor unions from discriminating in employment decisions based on actual or perceived sexual orientation. The legislation also prohibits preferential treatment on the basis of sexual orientation. A Gallup Poll found that nearly 90 percent of Americans support equal treatment for gays and lesbians when it comes to employment opportunities. 9 out of 10 Fortune 500 companies have also adopted nondiscrimination policies based on sexual orientation. ##
10.30.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Seven-Year Extension of Internet Tax Moratorium October 30th, 2007 October 30, 2007Eshoo Applauds Seven-Year Extension of Internet Tax Moratorium October 30, 2007 | Video WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, the House leader in the fight to keep the Internet free of new taxes, voted today for final passage of legislation to extend the current Internet tax moratorium for seven years, the longest extension ever approved by Congress. “No one should have to pay a tax just to access the Internet,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “Extending the moratorium for seven years is an important step forward to bolster innovation and enhance broadband policy in our country.” Congress first instituted a temporary moratorium on Internet taxes in 1998 to encourage the growth of online commerce. The moratorium was extended in 2001 and 2004 and is scheduled to expire on Thursday, November 1st. In January, Eshoo, a Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, introduced H.R. 743, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act, to permanently ban Internet access taxes and discriminatory taxes on Internet commerce. H.R. 743 attracted 240 bipartisan cosponsors but was not considered by the full House. Instead, the House voted on October 16th to approve H.R. 3678, the Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act of 2007. It initially extended the moratorium for only four years and included a loophole that would permit new taxes on e-mail and other Web-based services. Eshoo was one of only two Members who voted against the bill on October 16th. “I opposed the bill because it included only a four-year extension of the moratorium and language that could have opened up the possibility of new taxes on Internet services like e-mail and music downloading,” Eshoo said. “I knew we could do better and today we did.” Senate amendments to H.R. 3678 extended the moratorium to seven years and closed the tax loophole Web-based services. The House voted 402 to 0 to approve the Senate amendments and send the bill to the President for his signature. {moseasymedia media=http://www.youtube.com/v/IFAXXtXE8pw&rel=0} ##
10.25.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Again to Provide Health Insurance to Millions of Low-Income Children October 25th, 2007 October 25, 2007Eshoo Votes Again to Provide Health Insurance to Millions of Low-Income Children October 25, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Continuing to fight for children’s healthcare, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted Thursday to pass revised, bipartisan legislation to provide health insurance to 10 million low-income children. The House overwhelmingly approved H.R. 3963, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act, by a vote of 265 to 142. “Ten million reasons still exist to pass this legislation,” said Eshoo, a cosponsor. “The legislation addresses every significant objection without compromising on the goal to insure children, and it does so in a fiscally responsible way.” As with the CHIP reauthorization bill vetoed by the President, H.R. 3963 renews and improves CHIP by investing $35 billion over five years to provide healthcare coverage to 10 million low-income children. The bill is fully paid for with a 61-cent increase in the tobacco tax. The bill includes several provisions added to meet concerns of a minority of House Members who voted against overriding the veto. The provisions exclude adults from CHIP coverage; clarify that non-citizens are ineligible for the program; prohibit federal matching funds to cover children in families earning above 300% of poverty; and reduce the potential to substitute CHIP coverage for private insurance. The Senate is expected to pass the legislation next week and send it to the President’s desk. ##
10.25.2007	+ SHARE Report Says Web Services Could be Taxed Under Bill Eshoo Opposed October 25th, 2007 October 25, 2007Report Says Web Services Could Be Taxed Under Bill Eshoo Opposed October 25, 2007 WASHINGTON – According to the Congressional Research Service (CRS), language included in the House-passed Internet Tax Freedom Act Amendments Act of 2007 (H.R. 3678) could allow for the taxation of e-mail and other web-based services. Under the current Internet tax moratorium, any service that enables users to access content can not be taxed. Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, the House leader on making a strong Internet tax moratorium permanent, was one of two members to vote against H.R. 3678. “The report of the CRS that recent House legislation with a limited moratorium falls short is deeply troubling,” said Eshoo. “That’s why I voted against it and that’s why there’s a continuing, permanent case to be made for a comprehensive, permanent ban on Internet taxes.” “I am not going to quietly sit by and let millions of consumers be exposed to huge new taxes on their Internet usage,” said Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Oregon. “Innovation is the key to our economy. We need to be opening doors, not closing them.” The CRS assessment came in a memo addressed to Wyden, who authored the original Internet tax moratorium in 2001 with now SEC Chairman, Christopher Cox. The memo indicates that by limiting the Internet tax moratorium to “a service that enables users to connect to the Internet,” services that connect users to the Internet could not be taxed; however services accessed once connected to the Internet could be. As the memo explains “if an Internet user utilized one provider to connect to the Internet and another paid provider of, for instance, email services, the connection provider would be covered by the moratorium but not the paid email provider. Under the current moratorium, each would be covered.” Earlier this year, Eshoo and Wyden introduced identical Senate and House legislation, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2007 (H.R. 743 and S.156). The bills would make permanent the current Internet tax moratorium, which is schedule to expire on November 1. CRS Memo on House-Passed Internet Tax Bill More on Eshoo and Internet Taxes ##
10.18.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Override President’s Veto of Children’s Health Insurance Bill October 18th, 2007 October 18, 2007Eshoo Votes to Override President’s Veto of Childrens’ Health Insurace Bill October 18, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted to override the President’s veto of H.R. 976, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2007.” The House vote of 273 to 156 fell 13 votes short of the two-thirds required to override the veto. Eshoo made the following statement during the debate. “Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of this effort to override the President’s veto of H.R. 976, the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Reauthorization bill. “Virtually everyone with a stake in public health and healthcare is calling for this bill to be passed. There are 270 groups supporting this bill: 43 Republican and Democratic governors, including Governor Schwarzenegger, the American Medical Association, AARP, America’s Health Insurance Plans, the Healthcare Leadership Council, and Catholic Charities, among others. “There are at least 10 million reasons to insure the children of our nation because 10 million children don’t have healthcare coverage today. “The bill provides dental care, mental health benefits, and other medically necessary benefits that are part of the program. “The bill provides coverage to expectant mothers. “The bill allows states to provide assistance for CHIP-eligible kids to secure private insurance through a parent’s employer-sponsored coverage. “The bill is fully funded by a 61-cent per pack increase in the tax on cigarettes. “The opponents of this bill are hiding behind the thinnest arguments. “They say there are only 500,000 uninsured kids who are eligible for CHIP that we need to enroll. This is incorrect. According to the Urban Institute, there are more than 6.6 million low-income children who qualify for CHIP but are yet to be enrolled. This bill provides states with the resources and incentives to ensure these kids get the coverage they’re eligible for. “The President says the program will cover children in families with incomes of up to $83,000 a year. Senator Grassley, the Ranking Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, disputes this charge, saying ‘the president has been served wrong information about what our bill will do.’ In fact, the bill provides incentives for states to enroll children below 200% of poverty and any state that chooses to provide more generous coverage must get approval from the Administration. “Opponents assert that the bill increases taxes on ‘working people.’ The truth is it increases taxes on smokers. Not only does this help pay for the program, but according to the Institute of Medicine, by increasing the tobacco tax, there will be a decrease in tobacco use, particularly among young people. “Opponents assert the bill will cover adults not children. Although the program has been used to cover adults in the past, this practice will be phased out over the next two years. “Opponents assert that the bill gives coverage to undocumented aliens. There is nothing in the bill that would provide such coverage. In fact, the bill says, ‘nothing in this act allows federal payment for individuals who are not legal residents.’ “The moment has arrived for the House of Representatives to override the President’s veto of the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and when we do, we will stand next to the children and on the side of a brighter future for them and our entire country.” ##
10.11.2007	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo to Host Town Hall Meetings in Scotts Valley and Redwood City October 11th, 2007 October 11, 2007Rep. Eshoo to Host Town Hall Meetings in Scotts Valley and Redwood City October 11, 2007 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) will hold Town Hall Meetings in Scotts Valley and Redwood City on Saturday, October 13th. She will discuss her work in Congress and on the House Intelligence Committee and the Energy and Commerce Committee, including providing health care coverage to low-income children, making college more affordable, increasing funding for veterans’ health care, achieving energy independence, combating global warming, American competitiveness, and the war in Iraq. All constituents are invited to attend and share their concerns with Rep. Eshoo. These locations are wheelchair accessible and have parking. For more information, including assistance with directions, please visit Rep. Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov/ or call her District Office at (650) 323-2984, (831) 335-2020 or (408) 245-2339. Saturday, October 13th Scotts Valley9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m.Scotts Valley City Council ChambersOne Civic Center Drive Directions Redwood City1:00 p.m. – 2:30 p.m.San Mateo County Board of Supervisors’ Chambers DirectionsHall of Justice & Records400 County CenterDirections ##
10.10.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Accelerate Adoption of Health Information Technology October 10th, 2007 October 10, 2007Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Accelerate Adoption of Health Information Technology October 10, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, introduced H.R. 3800, the Promotion of Health Information Technology (HIT) Act to accelerate the adoption of health information technology and increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the U.S. healthcare system. “We live in the Information Age, but health care, one of the most information-intensive segments of our economy, remains mired in a pen-and-paper past. This is a disservice to patients and to our healthcare system,” said Eshoo, a senior Member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee. “Speeding the adoption of health information technology will have a powerful effect on enhancing patient safety, reducing medical errors, improving the quality of care and reducing healthcare costs,” Eshoo said. “The Promotion of Health Information Technology Act will ensure that the federal government will foster the development and implementation of advanced Health IT networks and technologies in our country.” Expert panels, including the Institute of Medicine and National Committee on Vital and Health Statistics, support the implementation of HIT to modernize the U.S. healthcare system. But the deployment of HIT and the adoption of important patient tools such as electronic heath records (EHRs) have not kept pace with technological advances in other industries. The bipartisan Promotion of HIT Act will increase the deployment of HIT by streamlining the process for the adoption of HIT interoperability standards. It requires the federal government to abide by those standards, and it authorizes funding to promote HIT adoption nationwide. The bill also includes strong patient protections. Specifically, the legislation: Establishes the position of National Coordinator for HIT within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to facilitate the exchange of interoperable health information and coordinate the government’s HIT activities and procurement. Creates the Partnership for Health Care Improvement, a public-private advisory body to recommend or endorse appropriate HIT interoperability standards and timeframes for adoption. All federal HIT procurement and all federal agencies that collect health data electronically will be required to comply with the standards endorsed by the partnership. Authorizes funding for grants to assist state and local governments adopt and promote HIT within their states. It also provides incentives for utilizing broadband to deliver HIT in underserved areas and authorizes funding to train qualified HIT professionals. Protects patients and their sensitive medical information by establishing a system to certify EHR products. Patients are guaranteed the right to inspect and obtain a copy of their EHR and to correct any inaccurate or fraudulent information. H.R. 3800 has been referred to the Energy and Commerce Committee. Bill Information Eshoo Statement PHIT Summary PHIT Section-by-Section PHIT Bill Text Endorsements Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (HIMSS) HealthIT Now! Business Roundtable IBM Siemens PHIT ITI Council Letter Divided We Fail American Electronics Association
10.04.2007	+ SHARE Bay Area Delegation Applauds Grants for BART Extension into Silicon Valley October 4th, 2007 October 4, 2007Bay Area Delegation Applauds Grants for BART Extension into Silicon Valley October 4, 2007 Washington, D.C. – Bringing BART to Silicon Valley is one step closer after the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) released funding for several key phases of the Silicon Valley Rapid Transit (SVRT) Project. Two grants totaling $8.85 million will help fund preliminary engineering to build the 16.1-mile extension of the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) rail line. Congress approved the funding at the request of the Bay Area delegation in 2005 and 2006. Combined with funding secured in 2003 and 2004, the federal government’s contribution to the BART extension is $11.25 million. Once completed, the project will link BART’s regional rail system with the cities of Milpitas, San Jose and Santa Clara. FTA awarded the grants to the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) to reimburse it for work the agency has already completed. Bringing BART to San Jose has been a top priority for the Bay Area delegation. “The FTA’s continued support for the Silicon Valley Rapid Transit Project as demonstrated by the release of $8.85 million is good news for our region,” said Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “The SVRT will help relieve road congestion so that residents spend less time stuck in traffic and more time driving global innovation.” “I am pleased the FTA gave a vote of confidence to a project critical to our region’s economic competitiveness,” said Rep. Mike Honda, D-San Jose, who was a member of the House Transportation Committee leading the fight for Congress to approve the funds. “Transportation and housing, two issues that are intimately related, are critical to our region and the reason why this project has been a priority for our entire area’s congressional delegation.” “I’m delighted to see federal grant funds helping our community move the BART project forward,” said Rep. Zoe Lofgren, D-San Jose. “I will continue working with my colleagues in the House to identify and deliver federal resources for local transportation initiatives. Silicon Valley has always had a reputation for its ‘outside the box’ thinking, perhaps its time we start thinking ‘outside the car.’ ” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Sen. Diane Feinstein have been instrumental in securing federal support for this project as well. SVRT was approved in 2000 by more than 70 percent of the region’s voters. VTA is currently preparing the project for environmental impact studies, which will be reviewed by the FTA. More About Bart to Silicon Valley ##
09.25.2007	+ SHARE House Passes Bipartisan Children’s Health Insurance Legislation September 25th, 2007 September 25, 2007House Passes Bipartisan Children’s Health Insurance Legislation Eshoo urges President to sign bill to cover 10 million low-income kidsSeptember 25, 2007 | Video WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted for final House passage of legislation to provide health insurance to 10 million low-income children, and she urged the President to sign the bill into law. “This is a matter of priorities,” Eshoo said. “This bill enables low-income children to have healthcare coverage by investing $35 billion over five years without charging it to our national credit card. The President says it is too expensive; however, $10 billion a month is being spent in Iraq. “The President should sign this bill and open the doctor’s office door to millions of kids,” Eshoo said. “There couldn’t be a better investment in the future of our country.” The House approved H.R. 976, the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act, by a bipartisan vote of 265 to 159. The bill is the result of a strong bipartisan compromise between House and Senate negotiators and supported by 43 Republican and Democratic governors and more than 270 organizations representing a broad range of Americans. H.R. 976 reauthorizes and improves SCHIP, which is scheduled to expire on September 30th. The legislation preserves healthcare coverage for 6.6 million children enrolled in the program now and provides resources for states to identify and enroll an additional 4 million uninsured kids. The bill also: Provides quality dental coverage to all children enrolled in SCHIP. Ensures states will offer mental health services on par with medical and surgical benefits covered under SCHIP. Protects medically necessary benefits for low-income children. Provides health care coverage to expectant mothers. Provides $100 million to simplify and streamline enrollment of eligible children. Allows states to provide premium assistance for SCHIP-eligible kids to secure private insurance through a parent’s employer-sponsored coverage. H.R. 976 will raise $35.7 billion over five years with an increase in the tobacco tax and will not add a cent to the deficit or the national debt. Eshoo, a Member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health, has been a champion of the SCHIP since Congress established the landmark program in 1997. {moseasymedia media=http://www.youtube.com/v/GceRsYKmTE4&rel=0} ##
09.20.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Questions DNI McConnell on FISA September 20th, 2007 September 20, 2007Eshoo Questions DNI McConnell on FISA September 20, 2007 | Video Washington, D.C. — During a hearing today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, a Member of the House Intelligence Committee, questioned Michael McConnell, the Director of National Intelligence, about his decision to disclose classified information to a reporter. Eshoo also asked McConnell to explain his remark that “some Americans are going to die” because Congress publicly debated changes to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. {moseasymedia media=http://www.youtube.com/v/H1ll5whCrkc&rel=0} ##
09.19.2007	+ SHARE House Approves Passage of Landmark FDA Reform Bill September 19th, 2007 September 19, 2007House Approves Passage of Landmark FDA Reform Bill Includes Eshoo Legislation to Improve Pediatric Drug-Testing LawsSeptember 19, 2007 | Video WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted for final passage of H.R. 3580, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Amendments Act of 2007, a bill to reauthorize and reform vital FDA functions such as drug and medical device approval and safety monitoring. The House voted 405 to 7 to send the bill to the Senate. H.R. 3580 includes provisions based on Eshoo’s bill (H.R. 2589, Improving Pharmaceuticals for Children Act) to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). Eshoo’s legislation makes significant improvements to these successful programs, increasing the quality and the quantity of lifesaving pharmaceutical therapies available to children. “Children are not small adults. They have specific medical needs that have to be considered when drugs are used,” Eshoo said. “This legislation will benefit our nation’s children by increasing access to drugs that are clinically proven to be safe and effective for them.” Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, has championed these programs for nearly a decade. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, only 25% of drugs used in children have been appropriately tested and labeled for use in kids. By necessity, pediatricians often have to prescribe drugs for “off-label” use, because the drug has not been studied in appropriate FDA-approved pediatric clinical trials. In some tragic cases, children have died or suffered serious injury as a result of taking drugs that are safe for adult use but have had different results on children. H.R. 3580 improves drug safety for children in two ways. First, under BPCA the bill provides an incentive of an extra six period of marketing exclusivity for a drug if the innovator company agrees to undertake comprehensive pediatric studies requested by the FDA. Second, under PREA, the FDA is granted authority to require studies when there is a demonstrated need. Also, PREA requires drug companies to submit a pediatric assessment each time they apply to market a new drug or change an existing drug’s purpose. The reauthorization legislation will increase the availability of pediatric information to doctors, parents, and researchers. Transparency and accountability of pediatric drug testing programs at FDA will be improved, and post-market surveillance of pediatric drugs enhanced. H.R. 3580 also reauthorizes the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFMA), both of which have been successful in speeding up FDA approval of new drugs, biologics and medical devices. The legislation also implements new post-market safety requirements for drugs that may cause serious side effects in certain populations, and establishes a national clinical trials database. {moseasymedia media=http://youtube.com/v/utI_LROPgI0&rel=0} ##
09.14.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on President’s Speech on Iraq September 14th, 2007 September 14, 2007Eshoo Statement on President’s Speech on Iraq September 14, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, released the following statement in response to President Bush’s speech on Iraq: “The President confirmed in no uncertain terms that he intends to remain in Iraq. This despite the analysis of the most recent National Intelligence Estimate, the Jones Commission Report, the Report of the Government Accountability Office and the Comptroller General, all reporting to Congress that violence in Iraq is up and political reconciliation is nil. “The President went further by stating he’s made a commitment to the Iraqi government for a long-term commitment of American resources and troops. “He is not listening to the American people. He very purposefully intends to stick the next President with his calamitous policy and the ruins of it. Congress must act clearly and decisively to bring our troops home in an orderly and safe way, and the Iraqis must step up to quell their own sectarian strife.” ##
09.14.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes President’s Plan for Unlimited Military Commitment in Iraq September 14th, 2007 September 13, 2007Eshoo Opposes President’s Plan for Unlimited Military Commitment in Iraq September 13, 2007 PALO ALTO, Cal. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, responded in an interview with KCBS Radio to President Bush’s plan for an open-ended military commitment in Iraq to last far beyond his term in office. Lisent to the interview.
09.07.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Historic Increase in College Financial Aid September 7th, 2007 September 7, 2007Eshoo Votes for Historic Increase in College Financial Aid September 7, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for final passage of historic legislation she cosponsored to make college affordable for millions of students and their families. H.R. 2669, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act, makes the single largest investment in higher education since the GI Bill in 1944 and at no additional costs to taxpayers. “Education is the most important investment we make in the future of our country. That’s why this legislation is so important because it helps students and their families pay for the rising cost of a college degree, without accumulating mountains of debt once they graduate,” Eshoo said. “With passage of this bill, barriers to higher education are eliminated and doors of opportunity are opened to more students than ever before.” The College Cost Reduction and Assistance Act: Boosts college financial aid by more than $20 billion over five years. The bill pays for itself by reducing excessive federal subsidies to lenders in the college loan industry. Increases the maximum value of the Pell Grant Scholarship by more than $1,000 to $5,400 in 2012. Nearly 6 million low- and moderate-income students will benefit from the increase. Cuts the interest rate in half on need-based student loans. The typical student borrower will save $4,400 over the life of a loan once the rate cut from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent is fully phased in after four years. Caps student loan repayments at 15 percent of a borrower’s annual discretionary income and allows borrowers in economic hardship to have their loans forgiven after 25 years. Provides tuition assistance for excellent undergraduate students who agree to teach in U.S. public schools. The House approved the Conference Report for H.R. 2669 by vote of 292 to 97 to send the legislation to the President for his signature. Fact Sheet ##
09.07.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Landmark Patent Reform Bill September 7th, 2007 September 7, 2007Eshoo Votes for Landmark Patent Reform Bill September 7, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted for and the House approved legislation to strengthen the U.S. patent system and improve the quality of patents which are vital to America’s ability to compete globally in the 21st Century. The vote was 220 to 175. Eshoo is a cosponsor of H.R. 1908, the Patent Reform Act of 2007. The bill modernizes the patent system for the first time in 55 years and creates a more effective process for considering patent challenges to deter frivolous, costly litigation. “Patents and intellectual property are the cornerstone of the Information Economy. That’s why it’s essential that the U.S. patent system continues to foster ideas and innovation which fuel our economy and keeps America competitive,” Eshoo said. “Unfortunately, the patent system has been subject to abuse. Unscrupulous opportunists have exploited the rights granted to legitimate patent holders to target innovative companies with groundless lawsuits.” Technology companies have become particularly enticing targets of litigation. A single piece of high-tech equipment can contain hundreds of patents, and any one of them can be used to sue for the value of the entire product. Just one company in Silicon Valley – Cisco Systems – spent $45 million this year to defend patent infringement cases. “The Patent Reform Act restores balance to the patent system by rewarding novel ideas and cutting edge innovation, not successful litigation strategies,” Eshoo said. The Patent Reform Act of 2007: Establishes a “first-to-file” system which grants patent rights to the first person to file an application with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, rather than the first to invent. This new standard creates greater certainty for inventors and harmonizes U.S. law with other countries; Creates safeguards to ensure more thorough review of patent applications and prevent illegitimate patent claims from being granted; Ensures that fair compensation for patent infringement is granted that reflects the true value of the patents involved; and Prevents forum-shopping which has created a preferred court for patent plaintiffs in a single U.S. District Court. The bipartisan legislation enjoys broad support throughout the technology industry, leading universities, including the University of California, as well as the Consumer Federation of America, Consumers Union, and U.S. PIRG. ##
08.27.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Resignation of Attorney General Gonzales August 27th, 2007 August 27, 2007Eshoo Statement on the Resignation of Attorney General Gonzales August 27, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, released the following statement today on the resignation of Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. “The resignation of Attorney General Gonzales is long overdue. Under his watch, the integrity of the Justice Department was undermined by a rampant politicization, a willful disregard for civil liberties, and repeated instances of providing false and misleading testimony to the Congress. “The President’s nominee for Attorney General should have the character and commitment to restore the trust of the American people by ensuring that the Justice Department upholds the Constitution and administers our nation’s laws in a fair and impartial manner.” ##
08.27.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Joins Commission to Help Reunite Divided North Korean Families August 27th, 2007 August 23, 2007Eshoo Joins Commission to Help Reunite North Korean Families August 23, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, joined the House Commission on Divided Families. The Commission is a liaison between the United States and the Democratic People’s Republic of North Korea (DPRK) and will submit names of Korean-Americans seeking to reunite with family members in North Korea whom they may not have seen for over five decades. “This Commission could help thousands of Korean-Americans who just want to know if their relatives are alive after years of being isolated from the outside world,” Eshoo said. Millions of Korean families were separated after the division of the Korean peninsula in 1945 and the 1950-53 Korean War. North Koreans have been cut-off from the rest of the world since then without access to mail, telephone service, or international media. Korean-Americans searching for lost loved ones through “family-reunion brokers” are often prime targets for extortion and bribery. The Commission will legitimize the process and attempt to eliminate the red tape and bureaucracy in North Korea when searching for family members. Please contact the office of Rep. Eshoo if you would like assistance in locating family members in North Korea. Korean Family Unification Form. ##
08.05.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Lauds Passage of House Energy Bills August 5th, 2007 August 4, 2007Eshoo Lauds Passage of House Energy Bills August 4, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for legislation to promote American energy independence and reduce global climate change. The two bills, H.R. 3221, the New Direction for Energy Independence, National Security, and Consumer Protection, and H.R. 2776, the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Act, passed the House by votes of 241 to 172 and 221 to 189, respectively. “Today’s action by the House marks a distinct change in direction of our nation’s energy policy,” Eshoo said. “Instead of providing costly incentives to oil companies and appealing to purely parochial interests, we will actually reduce fuel prices, move us closer to becoming energy independent, and address the growing threat of global warming.” The energy package represents the work of 10 House committees, including the Energy and Commerce Committee, which Eshoo is a Member of. Under an amendment that Eshoo supported, the bill establishes a national Renewable Electricity Standard (RES) that would require 15% of the electricity generated in the U.S. to come from renewable sources of energy. The bill also will raise 43 efficiency standards for appliances and buildings and includes a provision authored by Eshoo to improve the efficiency of computer data centers. Once fully implemented, the bill will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 10 billion tons, more than the emissions of all the cars on the road today. The package also includes a provision championed by Eshoo to end the tax loophole that gives businesses a $25,000 tax deduction for the purchase of SUVs weighing more than 6,000 pounds. Eshoo introduced the first legislation to close this loophole in 2003. The provision will save nearly $800 million over the next ten years that will be used to promote incentives for renewable energy and efficiency. “The SUV tax break makes absolutely no sense and provides a perverse incentive for small businesses to purchase some of the most fuel-inefficient passenger vehicles on the road,” said Eshoo. “Finally, we are taking steps to close this irresponsible loophole.” The bill also: Provides up to a $4,000 tax credit for plug-in hybrid vehicles. Eliminates the $2,000 cap on the tax credit for consumers to install solar and fuel cell generation at their homes. The credit can be used to offset the Alternative Minimum Tax. Creates an energy efficiency block grant to assist localities in taking innovative steps to improve energy efficiency. Allows employers to offer a tax-free fringe benefit to employees who commute to work by bike. The House legislation must now be reconciled with similar legislation moving through the Senate. The House will also consider more comprehensive climate change legislation later this year. ##
08.03.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Welcomes EPA Report on Data Center Energy Efficiency August 3rd, 2007 August 3, 2007Eshoo Welcomes EPA Report on Data Center Energy Efficiency August 3, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, welcomed the recommendations of an EPA Energy STAR study she sought which identifies steps to significantly increase the energy efficiency of government and commercial data centers. “Data centers are essential to our ability to process, store and transmit information in the digital age,” Eshoo said. “They consume enormous amounts of energy. That’s why we have to ensure they operate at the highest level of efficiency. “The EPA Energy STAR study provides sound policy recommendations and strategies to increase data center energy efficiency which will result in significant financial savings, reduce demands on power generators, and have a smaller impact on the environment,” Eshoo said. Eshoo sponsored legislation (H.R. 5646) approved in the 109th Congress which required EPA’s Energy STAR program to undertake the data center energy efficiency study, which was released today. Data centers significantly increase economic productivity, but as our economy increasingly relies on them, their efficiency and operating costs will become more critical. Data centers currently consume about 1.5 percent of U.S. electricity, a figure that will increase to 2.5 percent by 2011 without measures to increase energy efficiency. On June 28th, the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which Eshoo is a member of, approved her legislation to create a voluntary national information program to disseminate information about energy savings that can be achieved in data centers. Eshoo’s legislation would call for the development of metrics and measures for data center efficiency – a key recommendation of the EPA report. The legislation was included in the Committee’s energy legislation package which is awaiting consideration by the full House. Report to Congress on Server and Data Center Energy Efficiency ##
08.02.2007	+ SHARE Silicon Valley Members Salute Passage of Key Innovation Bill August 2nd, 2007 August 2, 2007Silicon Valley Members Salute Passage of Key Innovation Bill August 2, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Silicon Valley Representatives Anna G. Eshoo, Zoe Lofgren and Mike Honda joined together in saluting final House passage of legislation making major investments in education, science and technology to ensure America’s global economic competitiveness for generations to come. The House voted 367 to 57 to approve the conference report on H.R. 2272, the America COMPETES Act of 2007. The legislation implements key elements of House Democrats’ Innovation Agenda: A Commitment to Competitiveness, a set of policy proposals developed as a result of extensive consultations and meetings with industry and academic leaders across the country that began in September 2005 at Stanford University. “Americans have always accepted it as an article of faith that the United States leads the world in invention, ingenuity, and innovation,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, a member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. “But our nation is in serious danger of failing behind our global competitors in the critical fields of innovation and technology. This legislation boldly responds to the challenges we face with investments that will lay the groundwork for regaining our economic footing and ensuring that the 21st Century is an American Century.” “As one of the Members who originally worked with Speaker Pelosi to draft the precursor to today’s bill, The Innovation Agenda, I’m delighted to see H.R. 2272 pass,” said Lofgren, D-San Jose, a member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. “I salute Speaker Pelosi for her outstanding dedication to these issues and leadership that has brought us to this point today. The effort to craft The Innovation Agenda, and now pass the H.R. 2272 conference report today, is a bold response to the global economic challenges our country faces. And, I know that my Silicon Valley district will enthusiastically employ the tools and investments put forth in this bill to help ensure that America remains the most competitive and innovative nation in the world.” Honda, D-San Jose, a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice and Science and the Committee on Science and Technology Subcommittee on Technology and Innovation, noted, “H.R. 2272 will provide America’s next generation of innovators the tools they need to keep America the world leader in science and technology. At an innovation summit I hosted in San Jose, the participants emphasized America’s unique ‘outside of the box’ approach to innovation which has enabled us to become world technology leaders. I am pleased that the conference report includes a provision I authored that will help us learn about the traits of particularly innovative people and to ‘teach innovation’ as we carry out the Democrats’ Innovation Agenda.” The America COMPETES Act ensures that American students, teachers, businesses, and workers are prepared to continue leading the world in innovation, research and technology. The legislation: Invests in 25,000 new teachers and ensures more highly qualified teachers in math, science, engineering, technology and foreign languages. Doubles authorized founding for the National Science Foundation (NSF), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP). Establishes the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Energy (ARPA-E) to nurture innovation in energy research. This legislation is supported by numerous groups and companies, including: the Association of American Universities (AAU), the Business Roundtable, the Business Software Alliance (BSA), the Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA), IBM, the Information Technology Association of America (ITAA), Symantec, TechNet, and Technology CEOs Council. Senate approval of the Conference Report, expected this week, will send H.R. 2272 to the President for his signature. Eshoo’s Floor Statement ## Return to Top
08.02.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Provide Health Insurance to 11 Million Children August 2nd, 2007 August 1, 2007Eshoo Votes to Provide Health Insurance to 11 Million Children August 1, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for legislation she championed to provide health insurance for 11 million low-income children and strengthen Medicare for America’s seniors. The House approved H.R. 3162, the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act of 2007, by a vote of 225 to 204. “This is one of the most rewarding days for me since coming to Congress,” said Eshoo, a member of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “With passage of the CHAMP Act, America meets an obligation to the most vulnerable members of our country, low-income children, and I’m proud to have fought for this critical legislation.” The CHAMP Act reauthorizes and improves the landmark State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), which is due to expire on September 30th. The legislation preserves healthcare coverage for 6 million low-income children enrolled in the program now and provides resources for states to identify and enroll an additional 5 million uninsured kids. California has the largest SCHIP program in the country with 1.4 million low-income children. The CHAMP Act will provide the state with the ability to enroll over 1 million additional children. The CHAMP Act strengthens Medicare by preventing a scheduled 10 % cut to physician reimbursements so that seniors can continue to see the doctors of their choice. It also includes legislation sponsored by Eshoo and Rep. Sam Farr, D-Santa Cruz, to provide new patients with access to Medicare services in Santa Cruz County. Geographic-based low reimbursement rates prompted Santa Cruz County doctors to stop taking new Medicare patients in June 2006, forcing seniors to drive significant distances to adjacent counties to receive care. CHAMP increases reimbursements to Santa Cruz County doctors for three years beginning January 1, 2008. “Seniors deserve the same access to Medicare services no matter where they live,” Eshoo said. “This legislation helps Santa Cruz County seniors now and brings us one step closer to a permanent solution.” The CHAMP Act is fully paid for with new revenues from tobacco products and savings from wasteful overpayments to private Medicare insurers, and will not add a cent to the deficit or the national debt, Eshoo said. Eshoo’s Floor Statement on the CHAMP Act. ##
07.26.2007	+ SHARE House Approves Eshoo Amendment to Fund E9-1-1 Grants July 26th, 2007 July 25, 2007House Approves Eshoo Amendment to Fund E9-1-1 Grants July 25, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives voted 340 to 87 today to approve an amendment by Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, co-Chair of the Congressional E9-1-1 Caucus, to provide $5 million for grants to upgrade 9-1-1 call centers to trace the location of emergency calls made with mobile phones. “With the increasing number of emergency calls being made with mobile phones, 9-1-1 call centers have to be able to quickly identify the location of callers in crisis situations,” Eshoo said. “This funding will upgrade and enhance 9-1-1 centers with the technology necessary to respond to mobile phone users who need emergency help.” Eshoo sponsored the ENHANCE 9-1-1 Act, which became law in 2004 and created a grant program to pay 50% of the cost of upgrading 9-1-1 call centers so they can provide the most precise location of an emergency call from a mobile phone. Since 1995, the number of 9-1-1 calls made by mobile phones has more than doubled to over 50 million a year. The program was authorized to provide up to $1.25 billion in grants over five years but Congress has yet to fund the program, leaving significant coverage gaps in many communities across the country. Approximately 1,200 counties nationwide have 9-1-1 call centers that cannot call back or locate an emergency call from a mobile phone. The funding in Eshoo’s amendment would provide grants to 54 smaller counties to upgrade their wireless E9-1-1 capabilities or to up to 17 counties with populations over 100,000. The amendment to H.R. 3093, the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008, is endorsed by the National Emergency Number Association and the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials. ##
07.19.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges Attorney General to Resolve Cheney-Classified Info Impasse July 19th, 2007 July 19, 2007Eshoo Urges Attorney General to Resolve Cheney-Classified Info Impasse July 19, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, Chair of the House Intelligence Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, wrote to Attorney General Alberto Gonzales this week urging him to determine whether the Office of the Vice President is required to comply with government-wide regulations on handling classified information. Since 2004, the Office of the Vice President has refused to submit to routine compliance audits of its handling of classified information. Vice President Cheney’s office asserted that it was not bound by regulations on classified information security because it is not an “entity within the executive branch.” The National Archives’ Information Security Oversight Office (ISOO), which ensures compliance of the regulations, asked the Attorney General in January 2007 to rule on whether the regulations apply to the Vice President’s office. To date, the Attorney General has not responded to the ISOO’s request. “The Attorney General is clearly responsible for determining whether the Office of the Vice President is governed by the same regulations that apply to the rest of the executive branch for securing classified information,” Eshoo said. “Yet for six months, the Attorney General has been silent on the issue and allowed this impasse to fester. “Because the Office of the Vice President is deeply involved with classified programs, it is critical for the Attorney General to uphold the integrity of the system that safeguards classified information,” Eshoo said. Eshoo wrote to the Attorney General on Wednesday in response to concerns raised during a July 12th subcommittee hearing she held on issues related to classified information and the implementation of Executive Order 12958, which establishes the regulations governing classified material. Rep. Rush Holt, D-N.J. and a member of the subcommittee, joined Eshoo in the letter to the Attorney General. • Eshoo’s letter to the Attorney General. ##
07.17.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Secures Vital Funding for 14th Congressional District July 17th, 2007 July 17, 2007Eshoo Secures Vital Funding for 14th Congressional District House Legislation Now Moves to Senate July 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, announced that the House of Representatives has approved several of her requests for energy and environmental related funding in the 14th Congressional District. The funding is part of H.R. 2641, the 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Act, which the House passed today by a vote of 312 to 112. The House approved the following requests: $2.58 million for the San Mateo County Harbor District to complete the repair of the Pillar Point Harbor Breakwater. The repair will ensure the integrity of the breakwater and forestall the need for more costly repairs in the future. $1 million for fuel cell research and development by Nanosys, Inc., of Palo Alto. The funding will be used to develop a prototype for a fuel cell membrane assembly to enhance fuel cell effectiveness and reliability. The assemblies will be used in fuel cells to power consumer electronics such as laptop computers. $750,000 for fuel cell research and development by Direct Carbon Technologies, Menlo Park. The funding will be used to develop a prototype fuel cell to significantly increase the efficiency at which electricity is generated from coal while helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. $500,000 for the California Coastal Conservancy’s South San Francisco Bay Salt Pond Restoration. The funding will continue Army Corps of Engineers studies for flood control activities related to the restoration of the South Bay Salt Ponds acquired from Cargill, Inc. in 2003. H.R. 2641 now goes to the Senate for consideration. ##
07.17.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Legislation to Ease Passport Backlog July 17th, 2007 July 17, 2007Eshoo Votes for Legislation to Ease Passport Backlog July 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted Monday to enable the State Department to temporarily rehire retired Foreign Service workers to help process the massive backlog of passport applications which has forced millions of Americans to delay or cancel their overseas travel plans this year. “Three million Americans, including thousands of my constituents, have had to postpone or cancel their business trips and vacations because the Bush Administration vastly underestimated the increase in passport applications triggered by new security rules for travel in the Western Hemisphere,” Eshoo said. “This bill will bring relief to the current crisis by temporarily increasing the State Department’s workforce, but it’s only a first step,” Eshoo said. “The State Department has to take additional steps to increase its capacity to efficiently and securely process applications as the demand for passports continues to grow.” Passport applications surged by 33 percent this year and processing time doubled to three months after new security rules took effect in January. The rules require U.S. citizens to have a passport to fly to Canada, Mexico and Bermuda. The backlog hit California travelers particularly hard and overwhelmed the San Francisco Passport Office, where pending applications were stacked floor-to-ceiling in the office’s lunch room. On Monday, the House unanimously passed S. 966, the Passport Backlog Reduction Act, which gives the State Department the authority to hire retired former Foreign Service workers who are trained and authorized to process passport applications. Current law denies retirement benefits to these retirees if they exceed strict caps on wages and work hours. S 966 temporarily waives the caps to enable these workers to be rehired. On June 22nd, Eshoo led 46 bipartisan members of the California Congressional Delegation in writing to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to urge her to deal with the current crisis and come up with a systematic plan to meet the future demand for passports. Rice has not responded to the letter. Read Rep. Eshoo’s Letter to Secretary Rice. ##
07.13.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Again to End the War in Iraq July 13th, 2007 July 13, 2007Eshoo Votes Again to End the War in Iraq Supports House Bill to Responsibly Redeploy U.S. Troops July 13, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, released the following statement after voting for H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act, which the House passed by a vote of 223 to 201. The vote came on the same day as the release of the White House Interim Report on Iraq. The Report indicates that the Iraqi government has failed to meet key benchmarks endorsed by the President in January and that political reconciliation in Iraq is non-existent. “On Thursday, July 12th I voted once again to bring the war in Iraq to an end. The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act (H.R. 2956) requires the redeployment of U.S. troops in Iraq to begin within 120 days and to end no later than April 1, 2008. This proposal is consistent with the advice of our nation’s top military and foreign policy experts and it ensures the safety of our troops who are still in harm’s way. Very importantly, it reflects the will of over 70% of the American people who want a redeployment of our troops from Iraq. “I voted against going to war in 2002 and I’ve made every effort since then to bring about policy change in Iraq. Since the beginning of this year, I have voted for and the House has passed legislation to reject the President’s proposal for a surge in Iraq, set a timeframe for withdrawing troops, and establish clear, binding benchmarks for the Iraqi government to meet. “We need a bipartisan effort to end what I believe is the worst foreign policy blunder in the history of our country and bring our troops home. They are the ones who have suffered the brunt of funerals and injuries and their families have sacrificed mightily. “We need to create a way home for them, rebuild alliances in the region, and reestablish our nation’s credibility.” Related information: Text of H.R. 2956, the Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. More on Rep. Eshoo and the Iraq War. ##
07.12.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Chairs Intelligence Hearing to Examine Classification of National Security Information July 12th, 2007 July 12, 2007Eshoo Chairs Intelligence Hearing to Examine Classification of National Security Information July 12, 2007 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, chair of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management, convened a hearing today to examine issues regarding the classification of national security information. Eshoo opened the hearing with the following statement. I would like to begin by noting how rare it is for this Committee to hold an open hearing. Much of our work must be held in closed session to protect national security. However, where we can, we strive to have open hearings so that the American people can see their government at work. The subject of today’s hearing is the classification of national security information. One of the lessons of the 9/11 attacks was that our government did not effectively share information about the terrorists who were plotting the attacks against us. Information-sharing was – and, in some ways, remains – a major weakness of our nation’s national security apparatus. Over-classification, improper classification, the inability to share information across agencies, excessive compartmenting of information – these practices all contribute to a culture that says, “I can’t share with you. It’s my information, not yours.” Our intelligence community was established during the Cold War when compartmenting of information was deemed necessary to stop Soviet espionage activities. We no longer face the Soviet Bear. We face a networked adversary that uses information to its strategic advantage … and exposes the seams in our system to attack us. We need to close those seams by reducing the barriers to information sharing. And although we must always protect our sources and methods, we need to balance this with “the need to share.” As the 9/11 Commission recommended, the government must develop “incentives for sharing to restore a better balance between security and shared knowledge.” Even today, information may be so highly compartmented that analysts and senior policymakers may not have access to it. For example, the most recent Iraq National Intelligence Estimate was compartmented so that policymakers without those clearances were unable to read it, including many congressional staff. Today’s hearing will focus on several issues: (1) the consequences of and proposals to reduce over-classification; (2) changes to the executive order governing classification over the past decade and the government’s compliance with it; and (3) potential changes to the executive order. The system for safeguarding classified national security information is governed by Executive Order 12958. Over the years, this Executive Order has been modified, shifting the balance between secrecy and openness. Our witnesses have been acute observers of these changes over the years, and will be able to enlighten the committee on how the order has evolved. As part of the DNI’s 100-day plan, the White House and OMB are reviewing the DNI’s authorities with regard to the declassification process and considering modifications to Executive Order 12958. I hope they will keep in mind that increased secrecy makes it more difficult to achieve an environment where critical information is shared freely among policymakers. Such compartmentation would be the opposite of the recommendations made by the 9/11 commissioners and could well hobble our nation’s attempts to prevent another attack. I think it is unfortunate that the Director of National Intelligence declined to provide a witness to appear at this hearing. Many of the issues we discuss today have important implications for the intelligence community. I hope the witnesses will be able to propose solutions to encourage broader dissemination of national security information to policymakers. And I hope Mr. Issa will join me in inviting the DNI to respond for the record. I look forward to the testimony from our witnesses, and now recognize Mr. Issa for any remarks he wishes to make. ## Return to Top
07.12.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation to Increase 9-1-1 Awareness July 12th, 2007 July 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, co-chair of the Congressional E9-1-1 Caucus, announced the introduction of legislation to increase national awareness about the importance and appropriate use of 9-1-1 services. The legislation, H.Res. 537, supports the designation of one month each year as “National 9-1-1 Education Month.” The designation would encourage the development of annual public awareness events, public advertising campaigns, targeted outreach to schools, and training activities for parents and teachers to ensure that all Americans can access these critical services in an emergency. The legislation, H.Res. 537, supports the designation of one month each year as “National 9-1-1 Education Month.” The designation would encourage the development of annual public awareness events, public advertising campaigns, targeted outreach to schools, and training activities for parents and teachers to ensure that all Americans can access these critical services in an emergency. “Calling 9-1-1 is the universal lifeline for people in distress often provides the first alert to public safety professionals about natural disasters and national security threats,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “This legislation will help everyone know how and when to use 9-1-1, including vulnerable populations. Through education, children, senior citizens, the deaf and hard of hearing, and those with limited English skill will learn how to access emergency services when they need them.” Over 200 million emergency calls are made each year through 6,000 9-1-1 public answering points (PSAPs) serving 3,000 counties and parishes throughout the United States. With new communications technologies and the establishment of numerous other N-1-1 non-emergency numbers, 9-1-1 education is more critical than ever. Eshoo and Rep. John Shimkus, R-Ill., the House co-chairs of the Congressional E9-1-1 Caucus, unveiled the legislation at a Capitol Hill news conference. H.Res. 537 was introduced with 17 co-sponsors. The legislation has the strong support of the E9-1-1 Institute; the National Emergency Number Association (NENA); the National Association of State 9-1-1 Administrators (NASNA); the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials (APCO); CTIA – The Wireless Association; 9-1-1 for Kids; and COMCARE-Emergency Response Alliance. The bipartisan, bicameral Congressional E91-1 Caucus was established in 2003 to educate lawmakers, constituents and communities about the importance of citizen-activated emergency response systems. Eshoo and Shimkus are founding co-chairs of the caucus. Text of H.Res.537. ### Return to Top
07.11.2007	+ SHARE House Passes Major FDA Reform Bill July 11th, 2007 July 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives voted 403 to 16 today to approve H.R. 2900, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Amendments Act of 2007, a bill to reauthorize and reform vital FDA functions such as drug and medical device approval and safety monitoring. The bill includes provisions based on a bill introduced by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). Eshoo’s legislation makes significant improvements to these successful programs, increasing the quality and quantity of lifesaving pharmaceutical therapies available to children. “Simply put, these laws will benefit our nation’s children by increasing access to drugs that are clinically proven to be safe and effective for them,” Eshoo said. Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, has championed these programs for nearly a decade. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, only 25% of drugs used in children have been appropriately tested for use in pediatric populations. By necessity, pediatricians have to prescribe drugs for “off-label” use, meaning most drugs prescribed to children have not been studied in appropriate FDA-approved pediatric clinical trials. In some tragic cases, children have died or suffered serious injury as a result of taking drugs that are safe for adult use but have had different results on children. Reauthorizing BPCA and PREA will increase the number of drugs tested and labeled for children “Children are not small adults,” Eshoo said. “They have specific medical needs that have to be considered when drugs are used.” Congress responded to these problems in 1997 with the initial passage of BPCA, and again in 2003 with enactment of PREA. Specifically, BPCA provides a voluntary incentive for drug manufacturers to conduct clinical trials in children. PREA gives FDA the authority to require pediatric studies of drugs. These two laws have established a “carrot and stick” approach to pediatric drug testing that has been extraordinarily successful. The reauthorization legislation will increase the availability of pediatric information to doctors, parents, and researchers. Transparency and accountability of pediatric drug testing programs at FDA will be improved, and post-market surveillance of pediatric drugs enhanced. The legislation also makes permanent the FDA’s authority to require pediatric studies of drugs. H.R. 2900 also reauthorizes the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) and the Medical Device User Fee Act (MDUFMA), both of which have been successful in speeding up FDA approval of new drugs, biologics and medical devices. The legislation also implements new post-market safety requirements for drugs that may cause serious side effects in certain populations, and establishes a national clinical trials database. The Senate passed similar legislation earlier this year. Differences between the bills will need to be resolved through a Conference Committee. ### Return to top
07.05.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 2007 Congressional Arts Competition Winner July 5th, 2007 July 5, 2007 Palo Alto, Calif. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo announced that Viral Shah of Redwood City has been chosen as the 2007 Congressional Arts Competition winner for the 14th Congressional District. “The Congressional Arts Competition provides a wonderful opportunity for student-artists across the country to gain recognition for their work,” Eshoo said. “Viral’s mixed-media work, ‘African Woman,’ is a beautiful portrait and an outstanding example of the talent and creativity of the students in the 14th Congressional District. I’m very proud of Viral and all the students who participated in this year’s competition.” “African Woman” was selected by a panel of distinguished local artists and will be on display in the U.S. Capitol through June 2008. Rep. Eshoo recently welcomed Viral and his family to the Capitol where they spent a day touring Washington and meeting other young artists. Shah, 18, is a 2007 graduate of Sequoia High School where he was one of two valedictorians and served as president of the Associated Student Body. He is an active community volunteer and a member of the San Mateo County Youth Council of the American Cancer Society. He will attend Stanford University in the fall. Rep. Eshoo invites students to participate in the Congressional Arts Competition, which was initiated in 1981. Every year high schools from throughout the District receive information and applications for the contest. Additional information about the competition and an image of “African Woman” are available on the Student Resources section of Rep. Eshoo’s Web site at https://eshoo.house.gov/. Works by the 14th District finalists are also on display on the Web site of the Pacific Art League at http://www.pacificartleague.org/. Congressional Arts Competition Information ###
06.29.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Faults IG Report on Pentagon Program June 29th, 2007 June 28, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, faulted a report from the Inspector General (IG) for the Department of Defense for failing to conduct a comprehensive examination of a program that collected and stored information on anti-war protests in Santa Cruz and around the country. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, requested the IG examination in January 2006 after press reports that the Pentagon kept a database with information on anti-war protests, including a peaceful demonstration in April 2005 at the University of California, Santa Cruz. The Threat and Local Observation Notice (TALON) database program was established in 2001 to collect raw but unsubstantiated reports and tips of suspicious activity around military bases. “The TALON program raises serious concerns about the potential for the military to violate the civil liberties of U.S. citizens exercising their First Amendment rights,” Eshoo said. “Unfortunately, the Inspector General chose to take a very narrow review of TALON and failed to examine the most fundamental issues about the program. “The IG report does not assess who is accountable for violations of Defense Department regulations or explain why they occurred in the first place. The report neglects to assess whether adequate safeguards are now in place to protect the public. The report also fails to recommend whether TALON should be continued. “By failing to address the most basic and important questions, the IG report creates the impression that there are no consequences for failing to protect the civil liberties of American citizens,” Eshoo said. Eshoo’s response to the Inspector General’s report was signed by five other Members of the House Intelligence Committee. Read Eshoo’s letter to the Inspector General. Read the Inspector General’s Report on TALON. ###
06.29.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Congressional Investigation of VP’s Role in Fishing Disaster June 29th, 2007 June 28, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, is calling for a Congressional investigation into Vice President Cheney’s role in the diversion of water from the Klamath River Basin. The diversion preceded the largest commercial salmon fishing disaster in U.S. history and devastated commercial and recreational fishing in San Mateo and Santa Cruz Counties. Eshoo and 36 Members of Congress from California and Oregon made the request for hearings Wednesday to House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Nick Rahall, D-W.V., after the Washington Post reported that Vice President Cheney pressured mid-level bureaucrats in the Department of the Interior to divert water from the Klamath River Basin to benefit Republican political prospects among Oregon farmers. “This smells as bad as 80,000 dead salmon,” Eshoo said. “Those who depend on salmon for their livelihood, including many of my constituents, deserve to know exactly what the Vice President did to implement a water policy that circumvented the Endangered Species Act and devastated commercial, sport and tribal fishing in California and Oregon.” The diversion orchestrated by the Vice President led to the death of 80,000 salmon in 2002 and still contributes to low returns of salmon to the Klamath. In 2006, low returns to the Klamath forced the closure of most commercial and recreational salmon fishing along the Pacific Coast, devastating fishermen at Pillar Point Harbor in San Mateo County. Eshoo and her colleagues pressed Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez to declare a fishing disaster for the West Coast, and last month secured $60 million to help the fishing industry recover. “The Vice President is not above the law or immune from Congressional oversight,” said Eshoo, a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “It’s time for the Vice President to come clean with the American people.” Letter to Chairman Rahall. ### Return to Top
06.29.2007	+ SHARE Committee Approves Eshoo Legislation to Improve Data Center Energy Efficiency June 29th, 2007 June 28, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved legislation authored by Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, to promote greater energy efficiency in the operation of private and government data centers. “Data centers are vitally important because they enable us to communicate and share information. As we increasingly rely on information technology, the energy consumption and costs of operating data centers are becoming bigger factors,” Eshoo said. “This legislation will enable the growing information technology sector and the federal government to operate data centers more efficiently.” Eshoo’s legislation improves data center efficiency by creating a voluntary national information program to disseminate information about energy savings that can be achieved in data centers. A key function of the program will be the development of metrics and benchmarks by an outside entity with expertise in data center efficiency designated by the Department of Energy (DOE) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The metrics and benchmarks will be adopted by the Energy STAR program and DOE Federal Energy Management Program to guide private consumers and the federal government in procurement decisions. Eshoo’s legislation was included as a provision in a broader energy bill marked-up by the Committee on Wednesday. The legislation builds on a 2006 law sponsored by Eshoo and Rep. Mike Rogers, D-Michigan, authorizing the EPA to conduct a study of data center efficiency. ###
06.26.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Immediate Action on Passport ‘Meltdown’ June 26th, 2007 June 22, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, and 45 Members of the California Congressional Delegation, sent a bipartisan letter today to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice calling for immediate action to eliminate the massive passport application backlog causing hardships for millions of U.S. travelers. “Our passport system is in meltdown,” Eshoo said. “Despite having two years to prepare for its new security rule, the Bush Administration isn’t even close to being ready to enable Americans to secure the passports they need to comply. “This is an urgent problem for Californians and Americans across the country who travel internationally for business and vacation, and it deserves an urgent response from the Administration,” Eshoo said. The Administration’s new security rule requiring Americans to have passports to travel to Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean took effect on January 23rd, two years after it was first announced. Despite the long lead time, the U.S. State Department now has a backlog of 3 million passport applications, including 500,000 that were submitted over three months ago. Processing time has doubled from six weeks to three months. Eshoo’s letter urges Secretary Rice to do “everything in your power to address the issues that led to this crisis and to prevent future ones.” The letter recommends opening more passport processing centers across the country and enabling “qualified travelers” to renew their passports on-line. The bipartisan letter was signed 46 Members of the California Congressional Delegation, including 31 Democrats and 15 Republicans. The State Department has temporarily relaxed the North American air rule until September 30th to allow travelers to fly from the United States with a valid government-issued photo I.D., such as a driver’s license, as well as proof of having applied for a passport. Click here to read Eshoo’s letter to Secretary Rice. ### Return to Top
06.22.2007	+ SHARE Key Committee Passes Eshoo Bills Improving Pediatric Drug-Testing Laws June 22nd, 2007 June 22, 2007 Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee unanimously approved legislation based on a bill introduced by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, to reauthorize the Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act (BPCA) and the Pediatric Research Equity Act (PREA). Eshoo’s legislation makes significant improvements to these successful programs, increasing the quality and quantity of lifesaving pharmaceutical therapies available to children. “The timely reauthorization of these laws will benefit our nation’s children by increasing access to drugs that are clinically proven to be safe and effective for them,” Eshoo said. Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, has championed these programs for nearly a decade. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, only 25% of drugs used in children have been appropriately tested for use in pediatric populations. By necessity, pediatricians have to prescribe drugs for “off-label” use, meaning most drugs prescribed to children have not been studied in appropriate FDA-approved pediatric clinical trials. In some tragic cases, children have died or suffered serious injury as a result of taking drugs that are safe for adult use but have had different results on children. Reauthorizing BPCA and PREA will increase the number of drugs tested and labeled for children “Children are not small adults,” Eshoo said. “They have specific medical needs that have to be considered when drugs are used.” Congress responded to these problems in 1997 with the initial passage of BPCA, and again in 2003 with enactment of PREA. Specifically, BPCA provides a voluntary incentive for drug manufacturers to conduct clinical trials in children. PREA gives FDA the authority to require pediatric studies of drugs. These two laws have established a “carrot and stick” approach to pediatric drug testing that has been extraordinarily successful. The reauthorization legislation will increase the availability of pediatric information to doctors, parents, and researchers. Transparency and accountability of pediatric drug testing programs at FDA will be improved, and post-market surveillance of pediatric drugs enhanced. The legislation also makes permanent the FDA’s authority to require pediatric studies of drugs. The legislatIon incorporates recommendations of public health professionals at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Leading child care advocates, including the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) and the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, strongly endorse the legislation. Seven other bills were also considered at Thursday’s Full Committee markup, all aimed at improving the safety and efficacy of pharmaceuticals, biologics and medical devices. The bills are scheduled to be considered by the full House before July 4th. ###
05.24.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on House Amendments to the Iraq War Funding Bill May 24th, 2007 May 24, 2007 Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement regarding the House amendments to H.R. 2206, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Care, Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability Appropriations Act. “I received the following statement today from House Appropriations Chairman David Obey of Wisconsin. I completely agree.” *** Statement by Congressman Dave Obey Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee On the Iraqi War Issue “There are two sets of issues before us. “1. The President’s request for almost $100 billion to finance the cost of the war in Iraq for the remainder of this fiscal year which ends October 1st. “2. And another set of urgent needs for this year. Pandemic flu protection for the country, Additional funding for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program to prevent many thousands of poor children and some of their parents from losing health coverage, Gulf Coast recovery from Katrina, and Drought relief for farmers in the 70% of U.S. counties that the president named as disaster areas, “And other areas where we believe we must do more than the President wants. Defense Health, such as efforts to provide more help for veterans with traumatic brain injury, Veterans Health, to overcome the ridiculous backlogs, Homeland Security to strengthen our ports, our borders and our cargo inspection systems, Full funding for BRAC, the base realignment requirements, Additional funding for military housing needs, and Greater resources to root out Al Qaeda in Afghanistan. “Dealing with these issues is complicated by the fact that this country and this Congress are deeply divided on our involvement in the Iraqi civil war which has dragged on now for more than four years. “Several weeks ago House Democrats tried to use the President’s funding request to establish a process to responsibly end our involvement in that Iraqi civil war. “To that end, we passed and sent to the President a plan that: Spent almost $4 billion more than the President wanted on the health and safety of our troops, Established limits on how much sacrifice could be asked of U.S. military units while no one else, except for military families are appreciably sacrificing anything in this so-called war effort, and Set standards for judging the success or failure of Administration policy. “Why did we do that? “Because we agree with virtually every general who has said that this civil war will not be resolved militarily. It will be resolved only politically and diplomatically by Iraqi factions making the compromises necessary to bring it to a conclusion. “The President vetoed that proposal. To override that veto we needed 2/3 of the House and Senate to concur. We didn’t get it because Democrats do not have 2/3 of the seats in the Congress. “So next we tried to send another proposition to the President. It gave the President a limited amount of money and tried to set another more flexible set of standards for proceeding with this war. That proposal failed in the Senate. “On Friday, we met with the Administration and offered to drop all domestic items if the Administration would accept meaningful benchmarks and timelines for ending our involvement in that civil war. They flatly refused. “That left us with the Senate passed plan which sets a much weaker set of benchmarks than those passed by the House. It is clear that we do not have the 60 votes necessary to end debate in the Senate and force a policy change on the Administration using the fiscal year 2007 supplemental. “Because there are only 4 months left in the fiscal year, no serious person expects that it is possible to begin to redeploy our troops during that time. “So the question becomes how do we continue to press for an end to our involvement in that war on a reasonable timeframe. The proposition that we expect will shortly be before the Congress shifts that debate to the President’s budget request for the next fiscal year which begins on October 1st. “Weak as it is, the Senate adopted Warner amendment with its 18 new benchmarks does at least end the totally blank check that previous Congresses have provided. “Weak as it is, it does at least give members of Congress whose feet are not firmly planted in the status quo another opportunity to review the futile administration policy by establishing a requirement for two reports to the Congress – one in July and one in September. “The proposal before us will mean that in September, using the required reports, the Congress will have an opportunity to decide what course of action to take on this war. That decision will be just four months away. “Meanwhile, we have also insisted that the President accept the fact that there are other pressing needs to which we must respond. “The proposal will contain a long overdue increase in the minimum wage for America’s lowest paid workers, a wage which unconscionably has been frozen for a decade. “It will contain $17 billion above the President’s package for: added defense and veterans healthcare, Base Realignment and Closure, Military housing, Homeland security, Katrina, Gulf Coast recovery, Drought relief, and The State Children’s Health Insurance Program. “Some items it should contain, it does not, including: Low Income Home Energy Assistance and funding for the pandemic flu. “This proposition falls far short of containing everything that it should on both the Iraqi war and our own domestic needs, but I take some comfort in the knowledge that even Babe Ruth struck out more than 1,300 times. “But, weak as it is, this proposition does provide a structure and a process to continue the fight and it recognizes reality. “I will vote for the first proposition, which contains the minimum wage and $17 billion of the $21 billion that we sought to respond to crucial national needs. “I will vote against the second proposition that contains the President’s military request and the Warner benchmarks because I believe they are far too weak and I believe it is important to maximize the pressure on Iraqi politicians to compromise by having as many votes as possible for a stronger proposition. “This proposition will transfer the Iraq fight to September. At that time, after the reports required by the Warner Amendment – but before consideration of the President’s fiscal 2008 Defense Supplemental request – it will require a vote as to whether or not funds appropriated be used to redeploy troops on a responsible time schedule. “This proposition is the best that we can achieve given the votes that we have. “It is my fervent hope that when those votes occur in September, that a firm majority in both houses will see through the smokescreens being produced by the administration and send an unequivocal message to both the administration and Iraqi political leaders that our patience is over. “Some news stories have said that democrats have “given up” on a timeline. That is patent nonsense. There has never been a chance of snowball in hell that Congress would cut off funding to the troops in the field. “Some people say to us ‘why don’t you do what you did in Vietnam and simply cut off the funds even while troops are in the field?’ but that is not what Congress did in Vietnam. I know, I was here. When Congress passed the Addabbo amendment there were less than 500 troops left in Vietnam. What the Addabbo amendment did was to cut off American aid to the South Vietnamese government. “Even if the Congress were to cut off aid to troops in the field the President would not abide by that. He would simply assert his Commander in Chief authority to manage the troops any way he wanted and we would be in court for months, long past the time period covered by this fiscal year 2007 supplemental. “The last proposal we sent the Senate attempted to limit the amount of money available to the President to two months operating expenses – fencing the rest to try to force a policy change. All we are doing by this arrangement is to slip the timetable an additional two months from that proposal – shifting the debate from the 07 supplemental to the 08 supplemental. That means that our Republican friends who continue to support the President on this misbegotten war will have to face votes in July and in September on this same issue. We are not giving up, we are simply recognizing that no one believes that it is possible, given the Senate’s inability to produce 60 votes to shut down debate, to change course during the remainder of this fiscal year…the president and his allies need to face the fact that they are following a dead end policy which we will continue to make every possible effort to change.” ### Return to Top
05.23.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo to Vote ‘No’ on Iraq Funding Without Timelines May 23rd, 2007 May 23, 2007 Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement regarding H.R. 2206, the Iraq supplemental funding bill. “On Thursday, May 24th I will vote against legislation that supports funding of President Bush’s failed policy in Iraq. The bill lacks timelines for the redeployment of troops and, while it contains benchmarks, they are not enforceable.” ###
05.22.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Testifies in Senate for Permanent Internet Tax Moratorium May 22nd, 2007 May 23, 2007 Washington, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo made the following statement today in testimony before the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation in support of H.R. 743, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2007, which she introduced in the House January. “Good morning Mr. Chairman. I’m pleased to be here to testify about my legislation, H.R. 743, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2007. This legislation has strong bipartisan support in the House, with 70 cosponsors. “It’s an honor to join with my friend and your colleague, Senator Ron Wyden, in this effort, as well as Rep. Bob Goodlatte in the House. Senator Wyden has been a leader on this issue since the first moratorium was signed into law by President Clinton in 1998, and he continues to be a great champion for the Internet, innovation, and technology. “When this issue first came to prominence in the late 1990’s, my congressional district which is home to Silicon Valley, was bustling with activity in the burgeoning Internet sector. “From the end of 1997 to the end of 1998, the number of Internet users more than doubled from 70 to 147 million, and the 2 millionth domain name was registered in May of 1998. “In September of ’98 a small, start-up company was also incorporated in a garage in Menlo Park – Google, Inc. “Congress and President Clinton recognized the promise of the Internet and the need to foster its growth and development by maintaining an open architecture with limited barriers to entry, and minimal regulatory and administrative burdens. “Of particular concern was the potential for Internet access and services to become a target for government taxing authorities seeking new sources of revenue. “We recognized at that time that it wouldn’t serve our country well to interfere with the growth of this exciting and invaluable tool for information, communications, and commerce, and we prohibited new and discriminatory taxes on the Internet. “The moratorium has served us well and the Internet is now an integral part of everyday life. Americans across the country utilize the Internet for communication, commerce, business, education and research. “Now is not the time to reverse course and kill GoldenGoose.com. It’s more critical now than at any time since the moratorium was established to protect the Internet from new taxes and fees. “The country that invented the Internet no longer leads the world in Internet access and use. According to the most recent data, the U.S. now ranks 15th in broadband penetration among all industrialized countries. “I believe Congress should make a commitment to provide universal broadband access to all Americans. Universal broadband isn’t just something we should do … it’s something we must do if we are to remain competitive in the 21st Century global economy. “Broadband services are expanding and more American consumers are subscribing to it but we still lag behind most of our global competitors, particularly regarding true high-speed broadband service that will allow the U.S. to remain a leader in communications technology. “Access to these high-speed services and applications will revolutionize business, healthcare, entertainment, and education in our country, but only if all Americans have affordable access to advanced broadband service. “I can’t think of a faster way to retreat from this important goal than to permit new taxes on Internet access and services. “These taxes are also inherently regressive and would hit low-income households the hardest, widening the breach of the “Digital Divide.” “According to economic studies, only 11 percent of households with incomes below $30,000 have broadband service, compared to 61 percent of households with incomes above $100,000, and high prices prevent consumers from upgrading to broadband. “Some have argued that we should enact another temporary moratorium rather than establish the certainty that a permanent moratorium would provide. The basis for these arguments seems to be that state and local taxing authorities should be given time to streamline and simplify the various sales taxes assessed by the 7,500 taxing jurisdictions throughout the country. “These arguments simply don’t hold water. First, nothing in this bill prohibits states and local governments from collecting use taxes from their residents on purchases made on the Internet, over the phone, or by mail order. It simply leaves in place the status quo that distant businesses cannot be forced to calculate and collect these taxes for them. “The promise of streamlining and simplification is also illusory. These discussions have been underway for over a decade, and little or no progress is evident. In fact, the multi-state discussions on a simplified nationwide sales tax system have dwindled to 15 states, not including any of the nation’s six most populous states: California, Texas, New York, Florida, Illinois, and Pennsylvania. “It’s hard to see how these discussions will bear fruit and it’s difficult to justify tying the enactment of a permanent moratorium on new and discriminatory Internet taxes to this debate. “It’s critical for Congress to enact a permanent moratorium: 1. To reflect our commitment to universal broadband in America; 2. To provide certainty to the entire Internet community that access to the Net will remain tax free; 3. To ensure e-commerce will remain free of discriminatory taxes. “Thank you again for the opportunity to testify before you today. I look forward to working with you to enact this important legislation. ### Return to Top
05.11.2007	+ SHARE Director of National Intelligence Supports Climate Change Intel Assessment May 11th, 2007 May 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a letter to Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, the Director of National Intelligence Michael McConnell informed her of his support to have the National Intelligence Council (NIC) assess the national security implications of global climate change. Eshoo, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote McConnell on April 18, 2007, encouraging him to support the production of an National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on the security implications of global climate change and to integrate the impacts of global warming into NIE’s and the National Intelligence Strategy. “I believe it’s entirely appropriate for the National Intelligence Council (NIC) to prepare an assessment on the geopolitical and security implications of global climate change,” McConnell said in a letter received by Eshoo Friday. “I’m very pleased that Director McConnell shares my concerns and those of the majority of House members that the U.S. Intelligence Community has to be prepared to deal with the national security implications of global warming,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. Eshoo received McConnell’s letter less than 24 hours after House Republicans failed to remove a provision from H.R. 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, to direct the NIC to produce an NIE on global climate change. Eshoo, who chairs the Subcommittee on Intelligence Management, led the floor fight to keep the NIE in the authorization bill. The House voted to sustain the climate change NIE, 230 to 185, before passing the authorization bill, 225 to 197. On April 16, the non-profit CNA Corporation released a report from its Military Advisory Board entitled National Security and the Threat of Climate Change. The report recommended that climate consequences be integrated into the National Intelligence Strategy and National Intelligence Estimates. Click here to read the correspondence between Rep. Eshoo and DNI McConnell. ###
05.09.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Completion of East Palo Alto Levee Repairs May 9th, 2007 May 9, 2007Eshoo Applauds Completion of East Palo Alto Levee Repairs May 9, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, applauded the completion of repairs to a critical levee protecting one third of the City of East Palo Alto. “I’m thrilled that the repairs are finished and that the residents of East Palo Alto are now better protected from catastrophic flooding,” Eshoo said. “Thanks to the extraordinary effort and collaboration of city, county and state officials, the levee was repaired before real harm was done.” The levee, which protects East Palo Alto from San Francisquito Creek, was found to be seriously cracked and eroded during the severe storms of February, March and April, 2006, prompting the City to declare a local state of emergency. Local officials reported that a failure of the levee during a major storm could flood up to one third of the City, endangering the lives of residents and causing millions of dollars in property damage. In March 2006, Eshoo responded to the damage by asking Gov. Schwarzenegger for state funds to assist the City in expediting the repairs. The Governor agreed to provide state funding to reimburse 75 percent of the City’s cost to make permanent levee repairs. He also granted Eshoo’s request to provide advance funding so the repair work could begin immediately. Eshoo also sought a commitment from San Mateo County to share its technical expertise and advisors with East Palo Alto to expedite the repairs. East Palo Alto officials said permanent repairs to the levee have been completed and engineers have certified that the levee can provide sufficient flood protection for local residents. Eshoo is continuing to work to secure federal funding for the Army Corps of Engineers for a flood plan that will provide a solution to permanently protect all the communities along San Francisquito Creek. ## Return to Top
04.27.2007	+ SHARE House Approves Eshoo Bill Prohibiting Genetic Discrimination April 27th, 2007 April 26, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House of Representatives voted 420 to 3 today to approve H.R. 493, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) which will prevent abuses of genetic information for workforce and insurance decisions. “There are already genetic tests for over 1,000 diseases, and hundreds more are under development. But sadly, the threat of genetic discrimination is making too many Americans less likely to be tested and to participate in clinical trials,” Eshoo said. “This legislation removes these threats and encourages more patients to take advantage of this life-saving technology,” she said. Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, is a lead cosponsor of H.R. 493 and has championed the need to safeguard genetic information for more than a decade. Under the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act, health insurers will be prohibited from: Using genetic information to impose enrollment restrictions or to adjust premium or contribution amounts; Requesting genetic testing or results except as necessary for treatment, payment, or health care operations; and Requesting or requiring the use of genetic information for the purposes of insurance underwriting. The legislation requires employers to protect the confidentiality of genetic information and prohibits them from: Discriminating against an individual or depriving an individual of employment opportunities base on genetic information; and Collecting genetic information except where necessary to monitor the effects of toxic substances in the work place, when authorized by the employee or as required by law. H.R. 493 has 224 bipartisan cosponsors and the endorsement of over 200 companies, organizations and universities. ###
04.27.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Calls for Prompt Action On The Innovation Agenda April 27th, 2007 April 24, 2007Eshoo Calls for Prompt Action on The Innovation Agenda April 24, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, who played a key early role in developing House Democrats’ Innovation Agenda, called on the House to take prompt action this week to approve the first Agenda-related legislation of the 110th Congress. “Our nation faces enormous competitive challenges in the 21st century and we cannot afford to ignore them,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “The Innovation Agenda responds to these challenges by investing in our citizens and providing them with the tools to compete in an increasingly complex global economy. “My constituents in Silicon Valley know that America’s future depends on its leaderships in science, technology and other fields where innovative thinking is essential to making new discoveries and developing cutting-edge products,” Eshoo said. “We owe it to future generations to take bold action now to make this future possible.” Eshoo, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, joined other senior House Democrats at a press conference on Tuesday to promote the adoption of the Agenda during the 110th Congress. The Innovation Agenda: A Commitment to Competitiveness to Keep America #1 was first unveiled in November 2005 after House Democrats, led by then-House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, held a series of roundtable discussions with business and academic leaders in technology hubs across the country. Eshoo organized and cohosted the first of these roundtables at Stanford University in her Congressional District on September 12, 2005. The Innovation Agenda will: Create a new generation of innovators: an educated, skilled workforce in the vital areas of science, math, engineering and information technology. Make a sustained federal research and development commitment that promotes private sector innovation. Spur affordable access to broadband technology. Achieve energy independence, strengthen our national security, and protect our planet by developing emerging technologies for clean and sustainable alternatives. Provide small business with the tools to encourage entrepreneurial innovation and job creation throughout our economy. The first legislation from the Innovation Agenda will reach the House floor this week. On Tuesday the House will consider bipartisan measures to increase the number of highly qualified math and science teachers in K-12 (H.R. 362) and to support young researchers to foster the most innovative scientific research (H.R. 363). A bipartisan measure (H.R. 1332) to make capital more accessible for small businesses, which are catalysts for technological innovation, will be on the House floor on Wednesday. The House will consider additional legislation under the Innovation Agenda later this year, including measures to make America more energy independent and to promote universal broadband. Read the Innovation Agenda Brochure. Learn more about the Innovation Agenda. ##
03.29.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Fiscal 2008 House Budget Resolution March 29th, 2007 March 29, 2007Eshoo Statement on Fiscal 2008 House Budget Resolution March 29, 2007 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for H.Con.Res 99, the Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2008, and submitted the following statement for the record. “Madam Speaker, today we are living up to the promise we made at the beginning of the new Congress to bring discipline to the federal budget. “By passing this Resolution, we will take an important step toward balancing our nation’s budget, begin generating a budget surplus by 2012 , and provide resources for critical undertakings in our country. “It’s been a long time since we’ve talked about budget surpluses. Back in 2001, a $5.6 trillion surplus was projected by 2011. In two short years, that surplus disappeared and instead $2.8 trillion was added to the national debt. It now stands today at more than $8.8 trillion. “Today we’re turning the corner by upholding the principle of pay-as-you-go. Any new spending has to be offset by cuts to other parts of the budget and new tax cuts must be paid for. “This budget addresses several important national priorities: “It provides relief to the middle-class from the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) which is causing an increasing number of Americans to absorb a higher tax burden, as well as imposing an enormous paperwork burden on taxpayers who must determine whether or not they have to pay this tax. In my Congressional District, 11% of taxpayers are subject to the AMT. On average, they pay $8,000 in additional taxes each year because of it. “This budget allows for the extension of expiring middle-class tax provisions, including the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, the 10 percent bracket, and the deduction for state and local sales taxes. “It provides up to $50 billion to expand the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to cover a million more uninsured children in our country. “Because we’re committed to fiscal responsibility, each of these priorities will be paid for. “The budget also provides funding for priorities that have been neglected for too long: “It provides $3 billion in additional funding for education, including the No Child Left Behind Act and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. “It provides funding for the victims and communities devastated by Hurricane Katrina. “It provides $5.4 billion for health care for veterans. “This Budget Resolution provides funding to carry forward the Innovation Agenda that House Democrats under Speaker Pelosi developed last year, a commitment to keep America #1 competitively by making major investments in education and research, and the Resolution delivers on this commitment. “It puts us on the path toward doubling the funding for the National Science Foundation and basic research in the physical sciences. “It supports important initiatives to educate 100,000 new scientists, engineers, and mathematicians and to ensure that highly qualified teachers are instructing elementary and secondary school students in science and math. “This budget is supported by a wide-array of scientists and innovators, including: • American Electronics Association (AeA)• American Chemical Society (ACS)• American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME)• Association of American Universities (AAU)• Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA)• Council on Competitiveness• Electronics Industry Association (EIA)• Information Technology Industry Council (ITI)• Information Technology Association of America (ITAA)• Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE)• National Venture Capital Association (NVCA)• National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges (NASULGC)• Science Coalition• Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI)• TechNet• Technology CEO Council “Madam Speaker, I know it is not easy to create a budget that satisfies every need, but for the first time in years we have a budget that acknowledges fiscal realities and addresses our national priorities in a balanced and responsible manner. It is a worthy statement of our national values, and I urge my colleagues to vote for this legislation.” ## Return to Top
03.29.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Commends Tuskegee Airman Les Willams on Congressional Gold Medal March 29th, 2007 March 29, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo commended Leslie “Les” Williams of Belmont, Calif., who was awarded the Congressional Gold Medal for his service during World War II as a member of the heroic Tuskegee Airmen. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, attended the ceremony in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda where President Bush presented the Congressional Gold Medal, the highest honor Congress can bestow on a civilian, to Williams and some 300 of his fellow Tuskegee Airmen. “Les Williams and the Tuskegee Airmen are extraordinary Americans who endured discrimination and injustice to serve our country with distinction during World War II,” Eshoo said. “Many expected and some even hoped they would fail because they were black. Instead, the Tuskegee Airmen proved their mettle, using their skill, courage and determination to help lead America and its Allies to victory and pave the way for the integration of our Armed Forces. “Les Williams embodies the perseverance it took to be among the elite Tuskegee Airmen,” Eshoo said. “Williams passed the Air Corps entrance exam but was assigned to drive an Army truck because, as he put it, ‘I had the wrong skin color.’ Distinguishing himself in other ways, Williams won the backing of a general who enabled him to enter pilot training at the Tuskegee Institute. Williams went on to become America’s first black bomber pilot and flew scores of training missions across the country. “I’m grateful to Les Williams and all the Tuskegee Airmen for their service and devotion to our country,” Eshoo said. “They are great Americans and they deserve to receive one of the highest honors our country can give.” The Tuskegee Airmen were America’s first black military airmen. Between 1942 and 1946, 994 men graduated from the training at the Tuskegee Institute and the Tuskegee Army Air Field in Tuskegee, Ala. By the end of World War II, 445 had deployed overseas and about 150 lost their lives in training or combat. Units trained in Tuskegee flew a variety of missions during the war including combat and escort missions over North Africa and Italy. Williams, 87, was born in San Francisco and attended San Mateo High School and San Mateo Junior College. After the war, he attended Stanford University on the G.I. Bill and opened a dance studio in San Mateo. When he was 55, Williams enrolled at Stanford Law School and practiced law for more than 30 years. Williams and his wife, Elsie, live in Belmont. In 2006, the 109th Congress approved H.R. 1529 cosponsored by Rep. Eshoo to award the Congressional Gold Medal to the Tuskegee Airmen in recognition of their heroism in World War II. Previous recipients of the award include George Washington, the Wright Brothers, Thomas Edison, Jonas Salk, Jesse Owens, Rosa Parks, Nelson Mandela and Pope John Paul II. ### Return to Top
03.23.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo: Iraq Bill “Sets a New Course for Ending the War” March 23rd, 2007 March 23, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health, and Iraq Accountability Act of 2007, and submitted the following statement for the record in support of the legislation. “Madam Speaker, our country has just begun the fifth year of war in Iraq. By overwhelming numbers, the American people want a new direction and I believe this bill contains the policy and the plan to help bring an end to the misguided policies of the Administration. “Military leaders, Generals Abizaid, Odom and Powell, as well as former National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski, have all come forward to observe that the Administration’s war-without-end policy is not a strategy for success. “Today’s legislation directs itself to important change. It sets a new course for ending the war. “The bill requires accountability: It puts the Iraqis in charge of Iraq. If they cannot or will not bring their country under control, if conditions continue to worsen and political and military benchmarks are not met, beginning in July 2007 (less than four months from today), our troops will begin an immediate redeployment. “The bill begins a redeployment: It sets a firm timeline to pull U.S. troops out of Iraq and in legally-binding terms declares that all U.S. troops will be out of Iraq by August 31, 2008, if not sooner. “It requires the Iraqis – not our soldiers – to reign in the militias, aggressively pursue the insurgents and provide “evenhanded security for all Iraqis.” “The bill prohibits the establishment of any permanent military bases. It bans the use of torture. It redirects resources back to the fight against terrorism and Al-Qaeda, and recommits us to creating a stable state in Afghanistan. “The bill takes care of our troops. It provides over $3 billion more than the President’s request to meet the neglected needs of our returning soldiers and veterans around the country. “The following are quotes from respected national leaders: “Retired General William Odom, former Director of the National Security Agency under President Reagan and member of the National Security Council under President Carter stated recently: ‘Getting out of Iraq is the pre-condition for creating new strategic options.’ “According to former National Security Advisor Zbigniew Brzezinski: ‘The United States cannot afford an open-ended commitment to a war without end. A means must be devised to end the U.S. combat role in Iraq and reduce our troop levels, so that we can begin to rebuild our military and reclaim our position of leadership in the world. The bill the House will consider this week does that in an effective and responsible way.’ “Former NATO Commander Wesley Clark: ‘The conflict must be resolved politically – military efforts alone are insufficient – and this legislation strongly promotes that political solution.’ “Madam Speaker, I will vote for this supplemental legislation. For the first time the debate about Iraq is not ‘if’ or ‘how.’ It is about ‘when’…when our troops will come home. “It is binding language. “It is sensible language. “It is language that will change the direction of the war. “It is language that will help to heal our wounded troops. “It is language that will help heal our nation. “I urge my colleagues to support the bill.” ### Return to Top
03.23.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Bill Prohibiting Genetic Discrimination Clears Committee March 23rd, 2007 March 23, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee today approved H.R. 493, the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) which will prevent abuses of genetic information for workforce and insurance decisions. “Genetic testing is a great scientific advancement in our quest to prevent, treat and cure chronic health conditions. That’s the good news. The downside is that this inherently personal information can be turned against those it’s intended to help if used as a reason to deny job opportunities or basic health insurance coverage,” Eshoo said. “This legislation removes these threats and will encourage more patients to take advantage of this life-saving technology.” Eshoo, a senior member of the Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, has championed the need to safeguard genetic information for more than a decade and is a lead cosponsor of H.R. 493. Under the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act, health insurers will be prohibited from: • Using genetic information to impose enrollment restrictions or to adjust premium or contribution amounts; • Requesting genetic testing or results except as necessary for treatment, payment, or health care operations; and • Requesting or requiring the use of genetic information for the purposes of insurance underwriting. The legislation requires employers to protect the confidentiality of genetic information and prohibits them from: • Discriminating against an individual or depriving an individual of employment opportunities base on genetic information; and • Collecting genetic information except where necessary to monitor the effects of toxic substances in the work place, when authorized by the employee or as required by law. The legislation, which has also been approved by the Ways and Means Committee and the Education and Labor Committee, is scheduled to be considered by the full House next week. ### Return to Top
03.15.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Committee Support for Salmon Disaster Relief March 15th, 2007 March 15, 2007 WASHNIGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, today applauded the decision of the House Appropriations Committee to approve $60.4 million in emergency disaster relief for those along the coasts of California and Oregon who were affected by the 2006 Klamath River salmon fishery disaster, the largest commercial salmon fishing disaster in U.S. history. “I have been fighting, along with my California and Oregon colleagues, to secure this funding since last year,” Eshoo said. “Earlier this year, we asked Speaker Pelosi and the Appropriations Committee to provide this funding, and I’m pleased that they have responded to our request.” The full House of Representatives will vote on this funding next week as part of the larger Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act. On August 10, 2006, Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez declared a commercial fishery failure from Point Sur, California, to Cape Falcon, Oregon, which all but eliminated the commercial salmon fishing season for more than 1,000 commercial salmon fishermen due to poor salmon returns along the Klamath River. Early salmon return data indicate that fishing will likely remain closed for the 2007 season, further compounding the economic impact to fishing communities. “I will continue to do everything I can to ensure that this funding is approved by the Congress and signed into law,” Eshoo said. ### Read more about the Klamath River salmon fisher disaster.
03.01.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Arthritis Prevention Bill March 1st, 2007 March 1, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, introduced H.R. 1283, the Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act, to increase research funding and support services for the 46 million Americans living with this painful, chronic disease. “Arthritis is already the leading cause of disability in the United States affecting one out of every five adult Americans and more than 300,000 children. Many of those suffering are not receiving the care or the basic information they need to manage the disease,” said Eshoo, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health. “My legislation increases our capacity to treat, cure and ultimately prevent the more than 100 different forms of arthritis and other rheumatic diseases that diminish patients’ quality of life and affect the lives of their families and caregivers,” Eshoo said. The bill: • Enhances the National Arthritis Action Plan by providing additional support to federal, state and private efforts to prevent and manage arthritis; • Develops a National Arthritis Education and Outreach Campaign to educate the healthcare profession and the public on successful self-management strategies for controlling arthritis; • Organizes a National Arthritis and Rheumatic Diseases Summit to look at challenges and opportunities related to basic, clinical and translational research and development efforts to ensure greater coordination and intensified federal research efforts; • Provides greater attention to juvenile arthritis research through the creation of planning grants for innovative research specific to juvenile arthritis; and • Establishes education loan repayment and career development award programs to create incentives for health professionals entering the field of pediatric rheumatology. The Arthritis Prevention, Control, and Cure Act was introduced with 57 original cosponsors and has the strong endorsement of both the Arthritis Foundation and the American College of Rheumatology. ###
02.26.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Web Site Named One of Best in Congress February 26th, 2007 February 26, 2007 Washington, D.C. – The Web site of Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, was honored today by the Congressional Management Foundation, a non-profit, non-partisan management consulting and research organization in Washington, D.C., for being one of the best in Congress. Eshoo’s Web site (www.eshoo.house.gov), was one of 615 evaluated in The 2006 Gold Mouse Report: Recognizing the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, which analyzed Web sites of 538 Senate and House Members, 64 committees, and 13 leadership sites. Only 85 Web sites were singled out for recognition, with 18 winning Gold, 27 winning Silver, and 40 winning Bronze Mouse Awards. Of the 438 House Member Web sites analyzed, Eshoo’s Web site was judged to be among the 27 best. “Millions of Americans turn to the Internet every day for vital information,” Eshoo said. “As a member of Congress, I think it’s important to have a Web site that serves constituents with timely information and a convenient way to contact me with questions or concerns. That’s why I’m particularly pleased that the Congressional Management Foundation has judged my Web site to be one of the best in Congress.” Eshoo’s Web site also makes it easy for constituents to sign up to receive regular e-mail updates on her work in Congress. “Rep. Eshoo’s Web site shows that she has identified the needs of her various constituencies and has developed easily accessible content that meets their needs online,” said Beverly Bell, executive director of the Congressional Management Foundation. “Rep. Eshoo is to be congratulated for being among the best of the best Web sites on Capitol Hill, and the Congressional Management Foundation is pleased to present Rep. Eshoo with the 2006 Silver Mouse Award.” The Gold Mouse Report and Awards are part of the Congressional Management Foundation’s broader research project, “Connecting to Congress,” funded by a grant from the National Science Foundation. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, University of California-Riverside and Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. “One of the key purposes of the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those doing a good job,” Bell said. “Web sites that garnered an Award in 2006 illustrate the best practices that we hope can serve as examples for others to follow.” Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five basic building blocks that extensive research has identified as critical for effectiveness: audience, content, usability, interactivity, and innovation. Using these building blocks, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners at Harvard, Ohio State, and the University of California-Riverside that would be fair and objective, while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor’s experience on a Web site. CMF will be assessing congressional Web sites again in 2007. All House and Senate Member, committee and leadership Web sites will be evaluated during the summer of 2007 and another report is expected to be released by the end of the year. A full copy of the report, the 2006 Gold Mouse Report: Recognizing the Best Web Sites on Capitol Hill, is available on the Congressional Management Foundation’s Web site at http://www.cmfweb.org/ ##
02.22.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges EPA to Develop Locomotive and Marine Vessel Standards February 22nd, 2007 February 22, 2007 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, and fellow California Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent the following letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Stephen Johnson, urging the EPA to develop marine vessel and locomotive standards sufficient to protect public health and gain reductions by 2014. Eshoo along with Reps. Hilda L. Solis (CA-32), Henry A. Waxman (CA-30) and Lois Capps (CA-23) expressed concern that without federal action the emissions from locomotives and marine vessels will continue to harm public health and put greater pressure on already regulated sources to make up the reductions needed to achieve attainment. A copy of the letter is attached. February 22, 2007 The Honorable Stephen Johnson Administrator Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460-0001 Dear Administrator Johnson: As California Members on Committees of jurisdiction, we are aware of the significant problems faced by the communities we represent as a result of the emissions from mobile sources, particularly marine vessels and locomotives. We are writing to urge you to expeditiously promulgate new locomotive emissions standards and standards for foreign flagged vessels in a manner which utilizes existing technologies and supports the goal of achieving attainment. Using existing authorities, local air management districts have generally reduced emissions from factories, power plants, and other stationary sources by over ninety percent, markedly improving the quality of the air in the South Coast Air Basin. Unfortunately, the South Coast Air Basin continues to have the dirtiest air in the country and substantially fails to attain federal health-based standards for fine particles and ozone. The impacts of this pollution are staggering. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) estimates that over 8,200 people die prematurely each year just due to particulate pollution in California. Over half of such deaths occur in the South Coast Air Basin. Mobile sources are responsible for more than eighty percent of total emissions in this air basin, and marine vessels and locomotives are the largest unregulated source. Locomotives and marine vessels each emit more nitrogen oxides than all of the refineries, power plants and 350 other largest stationary sources in the South Coast Air Basin combined. Fifty percent of sulfur oxides emissions in the region are created by marine vessels. Worse, marine vessels are virtually the only significant source category with emissions projected to increase, primarily due to lax controls and cargo throughput that has tripled in the last fifteen years. Cargo throughput is expected to triple again in coming years. The threat posed by emissions from marine vessels and locomotives was recognized by the EPA in its June 29, 2004 Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (69 FR 39276). EPA noted that emissions of nitrogen oxide and particulate matters as well as hydrocarbons and air toxics contribute to health problems that include premature mortality, aggravation of respiratory and cardiovascular disease, aggravation of existing asthma, acute respiratory symptoms, chronic bronchitis, decreased lung function, and is likely to be carcinogenic. The Advance Notice of Propose Rulemaking went on to state that, “locomotive and marine diesel emissions reductions would particularly benefit those who live, work or recreate in and along our nation’s coastal areas, rivers, ports, and rail lines.” Yet existing regulations are insufficient. The newest locomotives only achieve a fifty-eight percent level of control of nitrogen oxides. Marine vessels have even less controls. There are no federal regulations limiting emissions from foreign flagged vessels, which are responsible for close to ninety percent of vessel emissions. International Maritime Organization standards for marine vessels will achieve no further emission reductions and the possibility of future standards being adopted by this organization is speculative. Since air pollution is a zero sum game, any emission reductions that cannot be achieved from relatively less controlled sources like locomotives and marine vessels will ultimately have to come from somewhere. This raises the specter of having to further regulate already stringently controlled stationary sources. Despite the recognition of a growing problem and the benefits of action, the federal government has failed to take the necessary next-steps to protect public health. EPA stated on February 28, 2003 that it would consider adopting emission standards for foreign flag vessels in rulemaking to be completed by April 2007, but no proposal has yet been issued (68 FR 9745). The 2004 Advance Notice of Rulemaking has not resulted in a new proposed regulation for locomotive emission standards. We believe that the EPA must promulgate regulations governing marine vessels and locomotives in a manner which is sufficiently stringent to enable all areas of the country, including the South Coast, to attain federal ambient air quality standards. The effective date of these regulations must ensure reductions begin before 2014. Regulations for locomotives should require control of particulate matter and nitrogen oxides by at least ninety percent beyond current levels, and similar levels of control should be required for marine vessels, both foreign and domestic. In areas with relatively high pollution which results from marine vessels and locomotives, the EPA must find a way to expedite implementation of these standards in order to prevent further impact to the health of residents. We believe that action to regulate these sources is technologically feasible. Existing control technologies could reduce emissions from locomotives and marine vessels by 90 percent or more. Low sulfur fuels could substantially reduce particulate matter and sulfur oxides from vessels, and shore power is a feasible control technology. In addition, after treatment devices such as particular filters can also be applied to locomotives. A solution cannot wait. Without federal action the emissions from these sources will continue to put a stranglehold on our air basin, harming public health and putting greater pressure on already regulated sources to make up the difference. As Members who represent some of the most affected communities, we look forward to receiving your prompt reply. If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact us or Megan Uzzell in the Office of Congresswoman Hilda L. Solis at 202-225-5464. Sincerely, s/HILDA L. SOLIS s/HENRY A. WAXMAN s/LOIS CAPPS s/ANNA G. ESHOO ###
02.15.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement Opposing Iraq War Escalation February 15th, 2007 February 15, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, spoke on the House floor today in support of H.Con.Res. 63, a bipartisan resolution expressing support for our troops and disapproving the President’s plan to escalate the war in Iraq. “Madam Speaker, it has been a long and painful four-year journey for the people of our country since this Administration acted preemptively and unilaterally to invade and occupy Iraq, policies which I believed then and I still believe today would not and could not stand because they simply are not in our national character. “We were told Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction. None were found. “We were told there was ‘yellow cake.’ It was a falsehood. “We were told that there were trailers containing the evidence of deadly chemicals. “We were told the mission was accomplished. “We endured national and international shame when the horrific pictures depicting Abu Ghraib appeared. “We learned that our troops were not sufficiently equipped. “We mourned with our constituents as the death toll of American troops mounted and continued to mount. Just think, 137 casualties in November of 2004, then the deadliest month overall. Today, over 3,000 precious U.S. lives have been lost, with thousands maimed and injured, and God knows how many innocent Iraqi lives lost. “We witnessed the world community’s total support on 9/11, and we’ve witnessed the diminishment of America’s credibility around the world because of the Iraq war. “We’ve heard the President and Vice President talk about victory and an insurgency in its last throes. “We’ve learned of manipulated intelligence and endured a no-oversight Congress. “Preemptive war, unilateralism, invasion, occupation, no postwar plan, an insurgency born of our blunders, and arrogance instead of reality. “Meanwhile, military experts…Generals Abizaid, Odom, Powell…and distinguished civilian leaders have called for change…a new strategy, and the urgency of diplomatic and political engagement. “All to no avail. “One of the central findings of the recent NIE, the National Intelligence Estimate, highlighted the lack of effective Iraqi leadership as a main component driving sectarian and communal violence. “The bipartisan Iraqi Study Group, appointed by the President, reported the utter urgency of action by the Administration. “Retired General William Odom, former Director of the National Security Agency under President Reagan and member of the National Security Council under President Carter wrote an Op-Ed in the Washington Post on February 11th. He identified the shortcomings of the Administration’s Iraq policy and presented some of the clearest and most prescient thinking on the issue to date. “He places in stark relief what many of our Colleagues refuse to accept: That the preemptive, unilateral course set by the President is not a strategy for success in Iraq. He says, and I quote: ” ‘The first and most critical step is to recognize that fighting on now simply prolongs our losses and blocks the way to a new strategy. Getting out of Iraq is the pre-condition for creating new strategic options. Withdrawal will take away the conditions that allow our enemies in the region to enjoy our pain… ” ‘Second, we must recognize that the United States alone cannot stabilize the Middle East. ” ‘Third, we must acknowledge that most of our policies are actually destabilizing the region. Spreading democracy, using sticks to try to prevent nuclear proliferation, threatening ‘regime change,’ using the hysterical rhetoric of the ‘global war on terrorism’ – all undermine the stability we so desperately need in the Middle East. ” ‘Fourth, we must redefine our purpose. It must be a stable region, not primarily a democratic Iraq. We must redirect our military operations so they enhance rather than undermine stability.’ “So many experts, so many respected leaders, so many voices of patriots and their critical analysis ignored. “Madam Speaker, in the preamble to our Constitution three magnificent words lead the document…WE THE PEOPLE. “The people of our nation made the clearest and most important solemn judgment on Iraq in last November’s election. “They said in overwhelming numbers to change the direction of this war…to de-escalate, not escalate. “That’s exactly what this debate is about. “We pay tribute to and support our troops who honor our country with their service. “We say…as the American people have said…enough is enough. “I urge my colleagues to vote for this Resolution.” ### Return to Top
02.09.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo to Chair Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management February 9th, 2007 February 9, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, has been selected to chair the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Subcommittee on Intelligence Community Management for the 110th Congress. The new Subcommittee will focus on policies and management challenges affecting all 16 agencies that comprise our nation’s Intelligence Community. “The terrorist attacks on our country on September 11, 2001, demonstrated the critical need for our intelligence agencies to work in concert with each other in collecting, analyzing and disseminating intelligence information,” Eshoo said. “This Subcommittee will work to ensure that the reforms Congress put in place after 9/11, including the creation of the Office of Director of National Intelligence to coordinate our intelligence efforts, are meeting the high standards the Congress and the American people expect of them,” Eshoo said. The Subcommittee will also perform important policy oversight regarding the designation of classified information, the process of granting security clearance, the physical infrastructure needs and acquisition practices of the Intelligence Community and the development of a professional intelligence workforce. Eshoo was first sworn in to the House of Representatives in January 1993 and was appointed to the Intelligence Committee in January 2003. Since her appointment, Eshoo has worked to modernize intelligence-gathering capabilities and to improve congressional oversight of the Intelligence Community. In the 109th Congress, Eshoo was the Ranking Democrat on the Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical Intelligence and served on the Subcommittee on Intelligence Policy. The Democratic members of the Subcommittee are Reps. Rush Holt of New Jersey, C.A. “Dutch” Ruppersberger of Maryland, Mike Thompson of California and Patrick Murphy of Pennsylvania. The Republican members of the Subcommittee are Ranking Member Rep. Darrell Issa of California and Reps.William “Mac” Thornberry of Texas and Todd Tiahrt of Kansas. ##
02.08.2007	+ SHARE House Approves Eshoo Measure to Limit Biofuels Emissions February 8th, 2007 February 8, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House approved legislation today by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, directing the Environmental Protection Agency to consider strategies to minimize emissions when biofuels are blended, stored or transported. “Biofuels are critical to diversifying our fuel supply and reducing our dependence on imported oil,” Eshoo said. “As we ramp up our country’s use of biofuels, we have to make sure that emissions from the infrastructure used to store, blend or transfer these fuels does not harm our environment.” Eshoo offered the legislation as an amendment to H.R. 547, the Advanced Infrastructure Research and Development Act, which will help get alternative biofuels to consumers more quickly and affordably and assist retailers in the transition to clean diesel fuels. H.R. 547 authorizes EPA to initiate a research and development program to make biofuels more compatible with the existing petroleum storage and distribution system. As part of that program, Eshoo’s amendment directs EPA to consider strategies to minimize emissions when biofuels are blended, stored or transported. “We all understand that pollutants contained in gasoline and other motor fuels are released into the atmosphere as the result of combustion, but emissions also occur through evaporation while fuel is held in storage tanks or transferred on and off trucks,” Eshoo said. “In my view, it makes sense for EPA to examine strategies that will reduce these emissions as part of its R&D program,” she said. The House voted 242 to 185 to adopt Eshoo’s amendment before voting 400 to 3 to pass H.R. 547. ###
01.31.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act January 31st, 2007 January 31, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, introduced H.R. 743, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2007. The bipartisan legislation seeks to permanently extend the moratorium on Internet access taxes and duplicative and discriminatory taxes on Internet commerce. “Americans across the country utilize the Internet for communication, commerce, business, education and research,” Eshoo said. “Because of the tremendous value it brings to all aspects of our lives, we need to encourage its usage and do everything we can to ensure that Internet access is universal.” Congress first instituted the temporary moratorium in 1998 to encourage growth of online commerce. In 2004, Congress extended the moratorium for an additional three years, which is scheduled to expire in November of this year. “Passage of this legislation will ensure, once and for all, that the growth of Internet access and e-commerce will not be hampered by unwarranted taxation,” said Eshoo, a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. H.R. 743 was introduced with 34 original cosponsors. Click here to read H.R. 743. Eshoo Statement Rep. Eshoo entered the following statement into the Congressional Record upon the introduction of H.R. 743. “Madam Speaker, I’m proud to introduce the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act of 2007. This legislation completes the work begun by Congress in 1998, by permanently banning discriminatory or duplicative state or local taxes on Internet access and e-commerce. “When Congress first instituted a temporary moratorium in 1998, the goal was to promote the growth of online commerce and encourage universal access. This policy has been a resounding success, fostering growth in productivity and innovation and widening public access to information. A 2006 report by the Pew Internet and American Life Project demonstrated that 73% of those polled were Internet users, up from 66% in a similar 2005 survey. While Americans use the Internet for a myriad of reasons, e-commerce has particularly flourished and continues to grow at an exceptional rate. In 2006 alone, online retail exceeded $100 billion, increasing 24 percent over 2005. “Despite the successes we have seen, there is still much work to be done. Internet usage still lags behind in rural and lower income areas and the United States has fallen from 4th to 16th in broadband penetration worldwide since 2001. In order to reverse this trend, we need to ensure that access costs are kept to a minimum. Prohibiting unnecessary access taxes will help accomplish this goal. “We also need to allow unfettered access to the products and new services that are only available through the Internet and prevent multiple layers of state and local taxes. Otherwise, we will open the door to a myriad of barriers to Internet commerce that will drive consumers from a web-based marketplace and stifle innovation. “Congress twice passed extensions to the moratorium in 2001 and again in 2004. Unfortunately, in November of this year the most recent extension will expire. Should Congress fail to renew this moratorium the continued growth and progress in Internet access and e-commerce will be endangered. “I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting my efforts to make this moratorium permanent and finally assure consumers that their Internet access and e-commerce will remain unhindered by discriminatory and duplicative taxes.” Return to Top ###
01.18.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Increase Investment in Clean Energy January 18th, 2007 January 18, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted Thursday to make the U.S. more energy independent by committing nearly $14 billion to create a reserve fund promoting energy efficiency, renewable energy and clean energy technology. “This investment is critical because the status quo is not sustainable for our country,” Eshoo said. “We must become energy independent and we must lead the world in developing smart energy alternatives to burning fossil fuels that are warming our planet and destroying our environment.” Eshoo, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and an original sponsor of H.R. 6, added: “This fiscally responsible legislation protects our environment, strengthens our national security and boosts our economy by investing in the domestic development of alternative fuels and innovative, clean energy technologies.” H.R. 6, the Creating Long-Term Energy Alternatives for the Nation (CLEAN) Energy Act, eliminates unneeded tax breaks and subsidies for oil and gas companies making record profits and redirects the funding into the Strategic Energy Efficiency and Renewables Reserve. The reserve fund will be available to offset the cost of subsequent legislation to: • Accelerate the use of clean domestic renewable energy resources and alternative fuels; • Promote the use of energy-efficient products, practices and conservation, and; • Increase research, development and deployment of clean renewable energy and efficiency technologies. Eshoo said the legislation will support private-sector initiatives by entrepreneurs, including many in her Silicon Valley District, who are focusing on clean energy and energy efficiency as “the next great frontier for innovation and growth.” “Just as it was important in the creation and commercialization of the Internet, federal leadership is needed in this endeavor,” Eshoo said. “With the funding we’re setting aside today, we’re setting a national priority and providing the impetus for research, development and deployment of new and emerging energy technologies in the United States.” The House passed H.R. 6 on a vote of 264 to 123. Eshoo’s full statement, submitted for the record, is below. “Madam Speaker, I’m proud to be a cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation which commits nearly $14 billion to renewable energy technology and energy conservation and I rise in strong support of it. “Today we are eliminating unneeded subsidies and tax benefits for the largest and most profitable energy companies, and instead, investing the resources in the development and deployment of renewable energy resources and energy efficient technologies and practices. “This investment is critical because the status quo is not sustainable for our country. “We know that: • “The burning of fossil fuels is accelerating global climate change. • “We have only 2 percent of the world’s oil reserves yet we consume 25 percent of the world’s annual oil production. • “Two billion people on our planet today do not have access to electricity which is a basic necessity of life and economic security. They aspire to the prosperity we enjoy. • “Without a change, we will face stiff competition for oil from the developing world. The Department of Energy estimates that China and India will spur a tripling of energy consumption among Asia’s developing nations in the next 25 years. “Rather than a series of problems, I see a tremendous opportunity for our nation. “In Silicon Valley in my Congressional District, the entrepreneurs who developed personal computers, the Internet, e-commerce, biotechnology, and nanotechnology are now turning to energy as the next great frontier for innovation and growth. “With the growing global demand for energy, they understand that the U.S. has the opportunity to be the primary exporter of clean energy and clean energy technology. “In the first nine months of 2006, these entrepreneurs helped fund $600 million of U.S. investment in green technology. • “They are investing in bio-fuels, bio-fuel infrastructure, and R&D to make bio-fuel production more efficient. • “One company in my district is developing a fuel cell system that will produce clean, on-site electricity for homes and offices while also providing transportation fuel for hydrogen vehicles. • “Others are developing technology that will put fuel cells in laptop computers, consumer electronics and automobiles. • “They are developing and manufacturing new, more productive solar cells and solar technology. • “Some of the largest computer, technology, and Internet firms are working to develop solutions to reduce the power used by large data centers. • “In my region, Tesla Motors, now the third-largest American-owned automaker, has produced a new line of efficient electric sports cars, with more practical and affordable models on the way. “This isn’t happening just in Silicon Valley. Wal-Mart is committing $500 million a year to become more energy efficient and reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. “Just as it was important in the creation and commercialization of the Internet, federal leadership is needed in this endeavor. “With the funding we’re setting aside today, we’re setting a national priority and providing the impetus for research, development, and deployment of new and emerging renewable energy technologies in the United States. “This is a very positive step toward energy independence and I urge my colleagues to vote for this bill.” Return to Top ###
01.17.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Cut Student Loan Interest Rates January 17th, 2007 January 17, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted for bipartisan legislation Wednesday designed to make college more affordable and accessible by cutting interest rates on subsidized student loans in half over five years. “Cutting interest rates on student loans is an investment in our country’s future,” Eshoo said. “By lowering the financial barriers to higher education, this legislation expands opportunities for our young people, giving them — and us — a better tomorrow.” According to the Congressional Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance, financial obstacles will prevent at least 4.4 million high school graduates from attending a four-year public college over the next decade. H.R. 5, the College Student Relief Act of 2007, will reduce the financial burden on undergraduates by cutting interest rates from the current 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over five years. The relief is targeted to those who need it most … students and families making between $26,000 and $68,000. “Once the full rate cut is in place, a typical borrower in California with $15,125 in subsidized federal student loan debt will save approximately $4,830 over the life of their loan,” Eshoo said. Eshoo said the legislation is fiscally responsible because the interest rate cuts are entirely paid for through adjustments in lender rates, participation fees for financial institutions and collection fees for defaulted loans. The House passed H.R. 5 by a vote of 356 to 71. Eshoo’s full statement, submitted for the record, is below: “Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of H.R. 5. “In today’s increasingly competitive economy, a college education is more important than ever. That’s why it’s essential for us to ensure that anyone who has the desire to receive a higher education has the opportunity to do so. Higher education shapes citizens as well as the future of our country. “Today escalating college costs and legislation passed by the Republican Majority in 2006 are creating insurmountable barriers across the country for students to afford a college education. According to the Congressional Advisory Committee on Student Financial Assistance, financial obstacles will prevent at least 4.4 million high school graduates from attending a four-year public college over the next decade. This is an inexcusable waste of our most valuable resource, the young people of our country. “H.R. 5 will lower these barriers, cutting interest rates in half over the next five years for undergraduate students with subsidized student loans. This relief is targeted to reach those most in need…students and families making between $26,000 and $68,000. When fully phased in, this legislation will save the typical borrower in California with $15,125 in subsidized federal student loan debt approximately $4,830 over the life of their loan. All told, this legislation will provide students with $5.5 billion in financial relief and is entirely paid for through adjustments in lender rates, participation fees for financial institutions and collection fees for defaulted loans. “I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this legislation. By doing so we will take an important step to improve access to higher education across the country as well as helping to relieve the burden on middle class families across the nation.” Return to Top ###
01.12.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act January 12th, 2007 January 12, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following statement Friday on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during debate on H.R. 4, the Medicare Prescription Drug Price Negotiation Act of 2007. The House passed the bill 255 to 170. “I’m proud as an original cosponsor to support the legislation that’s before us. When the Medicare Part D legislation was brought to the floor of the House of Representatives in 2003, I voted against it. And I think it’s worth recalling that evening. I think it’s worth recalling that evening. A 15-minute vote on the clock was left open for almost three hours, where arms were broken and twisted in order to secure passage of the bill. “One of the most troubling aspects of the legislation to the American people, and we have all heard it from our constituents, was that the legislation said that the Secretary of Health and Human Services was prohibited, prohibited from securing the best price to purchase pharmaceutical drugs. That is a bad rub with the American people. They saw through it and we are here today to correct that provision. “Drug prices under the current Medicare prescription drug plan are more than 80 percent higher than prices negotiated by other agencies in the federal government, and they are more than 60 percent higher than prices in Canada. This year alone many beneficiaries in private drug plans will see their premiums increase by an average of 10 percent while some premiums will rise to more than six times their current costs to beneficiaries. “So this effort today is a very simple and clear and purposefully directed one, and that is to get better prices for prescription drugs. Whether you are covered by insurance or not, some here are in Medicare, some are not, as Members of Congress. But you know when you go to buy, when you go to purchase, that we are paying high prices. “We all support the innovation of the pharmaceutical industry. We know how important the innovation of the pharmaceutical industry is. This is not a vote or a bill to harm that or to damage it. But we want to be fair to the American people. We made a pledge that we would do this. This correction is more than in order. “I ask my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation and I want to congratulate Ms. Emerson for the courage she’s demonstrated on this issue over the years.” ###
01.11.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the President’s Iraq Speech January 11th, 2007 January 11, 2007Eshoo Statement on the President’s Iraq Speech January 11, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s address to the nation on Iraq: “The President’s statement indicates that he has ignored the advice of his generals, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group which he appointed, Republicans and Democrats in Congress and the American people. Where are the new ideas? Where are the timelines for the Iraqi government to take over responsibility for the security of their country? “Our troops have fought valiantly for nearly four years in a war longer than World War II. Before committing more troops, the burden is on the President to prove that his so-called new strategy will actually stabilize Iraq without damaging our military readiness and undermining our national security. “The Congress has a constitutional duty to scrutinize the President’s policy and the funding, and we shall do so. We have a moral duty to our troops and their families not to put them at risk to prolong a failed policy.”
01.11.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Enhancing Stem Cell Research January 11th, 2007 January 11, 2007Eshoo Statement on Enhancing Stem Cell Research[Video] January 9, 2007 | Video Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-California, made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of H.Res. 3, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007. “I thank the speaker and I thank my colleagues, Congresswoman DeGette and Congressman Castle for the outstanding work that they’ve done in bringing this bill before the House. I’m proud to support it and I think this is a very important moment for the Congress. Why? Because this bill really represents hope for the American people. I often say to my constituents that I am in the business of hope. To give hope to people with what I do in the votes that I cast. There is a reason why this bill is an overwhelmingly bipartisan bill. Because 72 percent of the American people support stem cell research. There is only one type of stem cell research that is not funded by the federal government today and that is embryonic stem cell research. There are tax dollars for all the others, for chord blood, for amniotic and for adult. That’s why we have the bill before us today. We all have constituents, we all have members of our families that have diseases that have befallen them and injuries that have befallen them and where they come to us and say, ‘Please take action on this.’ So as someone that considers herself in the business of hope, I am especially proud to not only be a part of this effort but also be part of a new Congress that is giving hope to people that Congress will take action on those things that are really relevant to people in their day-to-day lives. That the American people, the working people in our country, be given a raise in the minimum wage. That people across this country will be given substantial hope that we will take action on this bill and that hopefully the president will continue the line of hope by changing his mind and signing this legislation into law. “Thank you.” Return to Top
01.09.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Enhancing Intelligence Oversight January 9th, 2007 January 9, 2007Eshoo Statement on Enhancing Intelligence OversightAuthority[Video] January 9, 2007 | Video Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-California, made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding H.Res. 35, which creates the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel as part of the Committee on Appropriations. Members chosen from the Intelligence Committee and the Appropriations Committee will serve on the Select Intelligence Oversight Panel. “Madam Speaker, I rise in support of H. Res. 35, and I believe that for all of us on both sides of the aisle that this is a moment of high responsibility. “If there is anything that we became painfully aware of, it was that we did not have a seamless operation, intelligence operation, to help protect our country. So what we are debating and discussing here are not a handful of sentences. What we are doing is we are blending, for a very important reason, the power of the purse and the power of the policy. They can no longer stand as independent smokestacks, number one. “Number two, I ask all of my colleagues of the House: Could the abuse and the corruption that was done unto the budget survive the scrutiny of what we are proposing here, where a member of the Intelligence Committee committed those crimes? “So this is a moment of really high responsibility. I welcome ideas from both sides of the aisle. They are always important. But I think the overriding principles here are really what have already been stated by so many, including the comments I’m making. As a member of the House Intelligence Committee, I welcome, I welcome more oversight. The problem with intelligence relative to the Congress is there has been under-sight or no sight, and that is dangerous for our country. “So I support these reforms. I think they are very important. It’s a moment of high responsibility for the Congress, and I salute the Speaker as well as the chairmen of the committees of jurisdiction for bringing this much needed legislation before the House and I urge all of my colleagues to support it.” ###
01.09.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations January 9th, 2007 January 9, 2007Eshoo Statement on Implementing the 9/11 Commission Recommendations[Video] January 9, 2007 | Video Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-California, made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives regarding H.R. 1, the 9/11 Commission International Implementation Act of 2007. “Mr. Speaker, I rise as a proud cosponsor of this legislation, which is really going to complete the outstanding work of the 9/11 Commission. “The issue that I want to focus my remarks on today is one that my colleagues and myself have worked very hard on, on a bipartisan basis, at the Energy and Commerce Committee for many years, and that is how to guarantee real communications interoperability between first responders. It is a very very important issue for all of our first responders in our communities. “The fact is is that interoperability can be solved today. Advanced technology developed across the United States and certainly in my district in the Silicon Valley can successfully enable first responders and others to communicate using disparate communication devices and networks. The problem up to this point has been a lack of resources and guidance from the federal government as to where and how local first responders should be investing their scarce dollars to achieve a solution. “This bill before us addresses this problem by establishing a stand-alone grant program within the Department of Homeland Security devoted to establishing an interoperability framework that local authorities can work from. “What is of utmost importance in creating this new grant program is the need to ensure technology neutrality so that the best available solution, whether it be radio, software, or IP network-based, can be implemented as soon as possible. “With this in mind, I would at this time yield to my colleague, the Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, to ask if he agrees that the goal and the intent of this legislation is to guarantee that our efforts to fund interoperability solutions are technology neutral. Specifically, the term ‘equipment,’ as used in the legislation should not be interpreted to exclude important technology such as software, middleware, or network-based IP solutions.” Homeland Security Chairman Bennie G. Thompson, D-MS: “Thank you very much. I can assure the gentlelady that the goal of this legislation is to be technologically neutral.” Representative Eshoo: “I thank the Chairman, and I encourage my colleagues to help promote full communications interoperability by supporting the bill before us.” ###
01.04.2007	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Calling for 2-1-1 Act January 4th, 2007 January 4, 2007Eshoo Introduces Calling for 2-1-1 Act January 4, 2007 WASHINGTON, D.C. – On the opening day of the 110th Congress, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Calif., introduced the Calling for 2-1-1 Act of 2007. The bipartisan legislation will provide individuals and families in need with greater access to information and referrals for human services and volunteer opportunities in communities across America. “People facing crises and difficult problems often don’t know where to begin to find the help they need in their communities,” Eshoo said. “Expanding our country’s 2-1-1 system will bridge that gap by providing one phone number people can call to find child care providers, drug and alcohol treatment, elder care and other vital services supported by federal, state and local governments, the private sector and nonprofit organizations.” The FCC has designated “2-1-1” for community information and referral purposes, but the service only reaches about two-thirds of the U.S. population. 2-1-1 services are only available statewide in 17 states. Expanding 2-1-1 services would strengthen the social service infrastructure and enable communities to better assess their social service needs. 2-1-1 services would also serve our country in times of emergency, as they did during Hurricane Katrina when the 2-1-1 system provided a crucial backup in areas where 9-1-1 centers went down. The Calling for 2-1-1 Act would authorize $700 million through fiscal 2013 in federal matching grants to enable nationwide implementation of 2-1-1 services. The legislation was introduced with 53 original cosponsors and is strongly supported by United Way. The bill has been designated H.R. 211. Click here to read H.R. 211. ##
12.22.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Interviewed on Air America December 22nd, 2006 December 21, 2006 Eshoo Interviewed on Air America December 21, 2006 Palo Alto, Calif. — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo was a guest this evening on “Politically Direct” with host David Bender on the Air America radio network. The Congresswoman discussed the legacy of the 109th Congress and the outlook for the 110th Congress that will begin work in January 2007. The inteview, which lasts about 30 minutes, is available here in streaming audio. ###
12.09.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Legislation Triumphs in Final Hours of 109th Congress December 9th, 2006 December 9, 2006Eshoo Legislation Triumphs in Final Hours of 109th Congress December 9, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Significant health-related measures championed by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-California, are on the way to becoming law after winning final Congressional approval early Saturday in the frenzied last hours of the 109th Congress. “Out of the thousands of bills introduced, all but a few die every two years when Congress adjourns,” Rep. Eshoo said. “It’s gratifying on the last day of the session to have Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate unite behind legislation that benefits my constituents and our country.” Rep. Eshoo introduced or made significant contributions to the following bills. • BARDA: Congress approved legislation to establish the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA). BARDA was the centerpiece of legislation (H.R. 5533) introduced by Reps. Eshoo and Mike Rogers, R-Michigan, which the House passed unanimously on September 26. The Senate included BARDA in S. 3678, the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act, which both houses of Congress approved on Friday. [Update: The bill was signed into law on December 19, 2006.] BARDA will be the primary federal office devoted to shepherding the development of vaccines and other medical countermeasures critical to protecting our nation against bioterrorism, such as weaponized small pox, and pandemic health threats, such as Asian bird flu. “This bill addresses an urgent issue which is critical to our nation’s security and public health,” Rep. Eshoo said. “With BARDA, the federal government will be able to encourage the work of drug and vaccine developers to produce innovative medical countermeasures that will save lives.” The lack of commercial demand for such drugs has created a funding gap known as the “Valley of Death,” discouraging companies from developing them. As part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), BARDA will bridge the gap by making interim payments at key development milestones, which will give companies incentives to pursue medicines showing promise in early research. • PREEMIE Act: Congress approved S. 707, the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Act, to stimulate research on reducing premature births. The legislation is identical to H.R. 2861, which Reps. Eshoo and Fred Upton, R-Michigan, introduced in the House in June 2005. Since 1981, the CDC estimates that the number of infants born too soon has increased by over 30 percent. More than 500,000 infants are born prematurely each year. Premature infants are 14 times more likely to die in their first year of life, and premature babies who survive may suffer lifelong consequences including cerebral palsy, mental retardation, chronic lung disease, and vision and hearing loss. “This legislation will help identify the causes of prematurity, and reduce the episodes of preterm labor and delivery,” Rep. Eshoo said. “But the overarching goal of this legislation is to bring hope to the 1,305 babies born too soon each day, and extend hope to their families.” The PREEMIE Act requires HHS and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to expand and coordinate their research activities on preterm labor and delivery and infant mortality, and to conduct research on the relationship between prematurity, birth defects, and developmental disabilities. To increase awareness of preterm birth as a serious and costly public health problem, the bill also requires the Surgeon General to conduct a conference on prematurity and to make recommendations on how the public and private sectors can identify the causes of and risk factors for preterm labor and delivery and improve treatments. [Update: The bill was signed into law on December 12, 2006.] • The Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act: The legislation, H.R. 6143, reauthorizes the law establishing federal funding levels for our nation’s HIV/AIDS programs for three years. Rep. Eshoo fought in the House Energy and Commerce Committee and on the House floor to sustain critical infrastructures of care already established in the Bay Area and other longstanding epicenters of the disease. [Update: The bill was signed into law on December 19.] • The National Institutes of Health Reform Act: The legislation, H.R. 6164, reauthorizes the National Institutes of Health (NIH), our national medical research center, for the first time in 13 years. Rep. Eshoo was a vocal advocate for sustained funding increases for NIH and managed passage of the bill on the House floor. The bill authorizes a five percent annual increase in research funding and establishes a “Common Fund” to stimulate trans-NIH research in areas of emerging scientific opportunities, rising public health challenges or knowledge gaps that deserve special attention. [Update: the bill was signed into law on January 15, 2007.] • Medicare Physician Reimbursement: As part of H.R. 6111, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act, Congress repealed the 5.1 percent physician reimbursement cuts scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2007. Rep. Eshoo supported the one-year, stop-gap measure but wants to find a permanent solution to the flawed formula in the 110th Congress. [Update: The bill was signed into law on December 20, 2006.] ###
12.08.2006	+ SHARE Congress Approves Eshoo Data Center Energy Bill December 8th, 2006 December 8, 2006Congress Approves Eshoo Data Center Energy Bill December 8, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – The U.S. Senate unanimously approved legislation late Thursday sponsored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-California, requiring research into reducing energy costs and electricity consumption by computer servers and data centers. Senate approval was the final congressional hurdle for the bill, which passed the U.S. House of Representatives on July 12, 2006, by a vote of 417 to 4. “The energy demands of computer servers and data centers are expected to grow by about 50 percent over the next five years,” Rep. Eshoo said. “We all rely on this technology, so it’s critical that we find ways of conserving energy and reducing energy costs. The study called for in this bill will help government, industry and consumers identify the most efficient technology to meet their needs.” The bill, cosponsored by Rep. Mike Rogers, R-Michigan, directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to identify the potential energy and cost savings to the federal government and private business with the purchase of energy efficient servers. The study is to be completed within 180 days of the bill becoming law. The bill also includes a sense of Congress that it is in the best interest of the United States for purchasers of computer servers to give high priority to energy efficiency. ###
09.29.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Ryan White Reauthorization September 29th, 2006 September 28, 2006Eshoo Statement on Ryan White Reauthorization Thursday, Sept. 28, 2006 Eshoo Statement on Ryan White Reauthorization Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement in the Congressional Record regarding consideration by the U.S. House of Representatives of H.R. 6143, the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment and Modernization Act of 2006.“Mr. Speaker, when Congress passed the Ryan White CARE Act in 1990, we sent hope to millions of Americans who were living under a death sentence that came with a diagnosis of HIV or AIDS. In large part because of Ryan White, outcomes have dramatically improved. “This bill fails to uphold the hopeful tradition of the original legislation because it creates a system of winners and losers in the allocation of federal resources. This major reauthorization of our federal HIV/AIDS policy is also being considered under suspension of the rules, prohibiting Members from offering amendments to address the serious deficiencies in the bill. “Last week in committee, I offered an amendment with several of my colleagues from the California, New York and New Jersey delegations to increase the overall authorization levels in the bill, which would help address the needs of communities more recently affected by the epidemic. Our amendment also extended the hold harmless provisions of the bill by two years to ensure that the historic epicenters of the disease do not experience precipitous declines in funding levels from year to year. Our amendment was defeated by a single vote. “Today we can’t offer that amendment or any other. Instead, we’re left with a ‘take it or leave it’ proposal that doesn’t adequately respond to the real needs of people suffering from HIV and AIDS. Congress has a responsibility to address the imminent crisis facing emerging communities, but we can’t abandon the infrastructure of care already in place. By eliminating the hold harmless provision after three years in order to free up funding for emerging communities, some localities will experience sharp funding declines. The bill also doesn’t allow sufficient time for states to transit from HIV code-based reporting systems to the more efficient names-based system. “Although California is making enormous strides to comply, Governor Schwarzenegger reports that the state will likely miss the 2009 deadline, sustaining a loss of up to $50 million, or 23 percent, of its total funding in FY2011. Such a loss has the potential to derail the entire state’s HIV/AIDS care system. “Given my serious concerns about the ability of this bill to preserve current infrastructure of care while extending assistance to areas of the country newly affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic, and with no opportunity to address these concerns with amendments, I reluctantly oppose this bill.” ##
09.28.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Electronic Surveillance Act September 28th, 2006 September 28, 2006 Eshoo Statement on Electronic Surveillance Act Thursday, Sept. 28, 2006 Eshoo Statement on Electronics Surveillance Act Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted against H.R. 5825, the Electronic Surveillance and Modernization Act of 2006, and delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. “Mr. Speaker, I wish we were debating final passage on a much better bill. Sadly, this bill gives the Administration what it wants: a blank check to conduct domestic surveillance without a warrant.” “Representative Wilson said earlier that this is not a White House bill. Well, if it’s not a White House bill, it’s a White House dream because it’s a blank check to the President. “Instead of addressing specific problems in the law with tailored solutions, this bill eviscerates the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. This act is only 30 years old. It’s not an antique; it hasn’t collected dust. It’s been amended; it’s been brought up to date. But that’s not good enough. This bill eviscerates it. “One of the arguments advanced during the debate was that FISA needs to be technology neutral. I agree. We agreed. We went out to the National Security Agency and they told us that. We agreed. We offered a tailored solution. It was rejected. The whole law has to be scrapped in order to make changes? That is not a prudent course. “This bill heads us down a dangerous path. The radical changes this bill makes to FISA definitions and standards represent a wholesale rewrite of the law. They nullify FISA by exempting large categories of US person communication from the warrant requirement. And it rubberstamps all forms of data-mining. “The American people want us to protect them, but they don’t want us to throw the Constitution overboard. May I remind everyone of the obligation that we have to the American people when we come here. The oath we take says we will uphold the Constitution of the United States. “This bill doesn’t live up to our Constitution. It gives away the Fourth Amendment. Members of the House should reject it.” ##
09.27.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against Military Commissions Act September 27th, 2006 September 27, 2006Eshoo Votes Against Military Commissions Act September 27, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted against H.R. 6116, the Military Commissions Act of 2006, and submitted the following statement for the record. “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this legislation which threatens to overturn two centuries of legal precedent, and which undermines our nation’s longstanding international obligations enshrined in the Geneva Conventions. “As Members of Congress we have no higher priority than the security of the American people. It’s our duty to see that anyone who murders Americans is properly tried and punished. This responsibility requires us to address the disastrous detainee policies put in place by the Bush Administration. Republicans and Democrats have sought to create a sustainable legal framework that gives our judiciary the tools to deliver justice to our enemies in swift, clear and fair terms. Above all, our methods must reflect the ideals of our Constitution and the highest standards in protecting human rights and due process under the law. “The bill before us fails to meet these standards. Instead, it erodes the protections of the Geneva Conventions and reverses two centuries of American jurisprudence by denying habeas corpus protections for the accused. More dangerously, it fails to eliminate the use of torture, which has seriously undermined global support for our fight against terrorism. “As a member of the House Intelligence Committee I’m very familiar with the challenges we face in the fight against terror, and nothing I have seen has convinced me that the measures in this bill will make us safer or provide an effective framework for bringing our enemies to justice. “The Geneva Conventions exist not to embolden our enemies but to protect our own soldiers from harm should they be captured or detained. Our failure to embrace these standards of treatment opens the door to misconduct by our enemies, a reality that many current and former military experts have spoken out against. Former Secretary of State Colin Powell put it best by saying that redefining our obligations under the Geneva Conventions will encourage other countries to “doubt the moral basis of our fight against terrorism…. Furthermore, it would put our own troops at risk.” No one doubts the wisdom of Secretary Powell in these matters and it’s reckless of this body to ignore his counsel. “Habeas corpus rights, likewise, do not give comfort to the guilty, nor do they help to free terrorists in our custody. They exist only to protect the innocent, and their proper application helps reduce the risk of detaining the wrong individuals. The failure to provide habeas corpus rights was a key issue in the Supreme Court’s decision to declare the Administration’s original tribunal system unconstitutional. Denying these rights again with this bill creates a serious threat to the constitutionality of the legislation, and makes it more than likely that we’ll all be back here in a year, or five years from now, trying once again to create a system that will bring terrorist enemies to justice. “Finally, this bill fails to set an appropriate standard for the treatment of prisoners and relaxes the restrictions on the use of torture embodied in Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. The bill grants the sole authority for interpreting the Geneva Conventions, including Common Article 3, to the President, giving the Administration the option to relax or simply ignore these protections outright. The bill also specifies that the restrictions on the use of torture laid out in the Army Field Manual which apply uniformly to U.S. military personnel and facilities, do not apply to other U.S. agencies engaged in the fight against terror, including the CIA. “Our security depends on effective and lawful interrogation practices that yield dependable, actionable intelligence. This legislation gives the Administration a blank check to define its own methods for interrogation and opens the door for abuses. We’ve already seen where permissive interrogation rules can lead…it’s called Abu Ghraib. Certainly what we have lost in credibility in the eyes of the world community and the Iraqi people weighs heavily against any information that has been obtained. To ensure accountability Congress must have the ability to review and set standards for interrogation practices around the world. Doing so ensures not only their legality, but ultimately their effectiveness. This bill takes that responsibility out of our hands. “Mr. Speaker, for all the stated reasons, this bill should not become the policy of our great nation and I urge my colleagues to oppose it.” ## Return to Top
09.26.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on NIH Reform Act September 26th, 2006 September 26, 2006Eshoo Statement on NIH Reform Act Tuesday, Sept. 26, 2006 Eshoo Statement on NIH Reform Act Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, delivered the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives during consideration of H.R. 6164, the National Institutes of Health Reform Act of 2006. “Madam Speaker, I want to start off by saluting Chairman Barton. This is a great achievement for the chairman and for the country. Joe, you did everything for the right reasons; and you did it the right way with everyone. “This jurisdiction of NIH, which I very affectionately call the ‘National Institutes of Hope,’ is really a crown jewel in the jurisdiction of the Energy and Commerce Committee. But it has been 13 years since there has been a reauthorization and it is extraordinary that a bill of such import has been brought to the floor and will receive the support, I think almost unanimously, of Members in the House of Representatives. And that is a tribute to you of how you have done this and how much you have cared about it. There are the letters of endorsement from, it is really one of the greatest honor rolls of endorsers and stakeholders in the country, and the chairman made reference to them. So, to Chairman Barton, congratulations, job well done, something really important for the people of our country. “We are considering H.R. 6164, the National Institutes of Health Reform Act of 2006. It is a very important piece of legislation that will reauthorize our foremost medical research center and the Federal focal point for medical research in our Nation. The goal of the NIH is to acquire new knowledge to help prevent, to detect, to diagnose and to treat diseases and disabilities from the rarest genetic disorder to the common cold. The American people look to the NIH. They trust the NIH. They want us to make investments in it, because it does represent hope for the future. “The NIH conducts research in its own laboratories. It supports research of non-Federal scientists in universities. And I am proud that Stanford Medical School, under the great leadership of Dr. Phil Pizzo, is one of the supporters of this legislation. The NIH supports medical schools, hospitals, and research institutions throughout the country and abroad. I think many people don’t realize that, that there is a portion of this that takes place abroad. And it helps in the training of research investigators, and it fosters communication of medical health and health sciences information. This Act is going to help to ensure the continued success of the NIH. “There are many, many commendable provisions of this bill. The establishment of the common fund should serve to stimulate trans-NIH research in areas of emerging scientific opportunities, rising public health challenges, or knowledge gaps that deserve special attention and are going to benefit from additional research that involves collaboration between two or more institutes or centers. “Another significant provision of the legislation is the creation of an infrastructure to evaluate and report on the NIH research portfolio. It is very, very important, very difficult to go through and to document the contributions of the NIH in key areas, and this is going to provide for that. The bill contains many admirable goals and provisions that are going to help NIH in its long-term battle to overcome human disease and disability. “What the bill does not address, and some Members raised this at the committee, is the issue of funding. Some of us think there could be more funding, that there is insufficient funding. This really is the largest problem facing the NIH today. After years of significant funding increases for NIH, this Congress has effectively chosen to flat-fund the agency. After adjusting for inflation, this could turn out to actually be a funding cut. “In an effort to address this problem, Representative Markey offered an amendment during our full committee markup last week. His amendment sought to ensure that this Congress provided a real 5 percent increase in funding for NIH, not one that could be diminished by inflation. But the amendment did not pass. It was defeated along a party line vote. A significant increase in the number of grant applications combined with a frozen level of congressional funding has really taken its toll on the NIH. That is why some of us thought that it was very important to act and to provide more resources to ensure that NIH’s funding levels don’t fall any lower. “Despite the fact that this bill offers no assurances of what I just described, it is still a good bill, it is a solid bill, it makes progress, and I will support its passage, and I urge my colleagues to do that.” ##
09.25.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces Anti-Gang Grant for East Palo Alto September 25th, 2006 September 22, 2006Eshoo Announces Anti-Gang Grant for East Palo Alto September 22, 2006 PALO ALTO, Calif. — U.S. Rep. Anna Eshoo announced today that the City of East Palo Alto has been awarded a $145,894 grant from the Department of Justice to expand its Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T) program to all 1,600 4th through 8th grade students in the East Palo Alto School District. “This grant represents help and hope for our children and our community,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “We must keep our children from falling prey to gangs and gang violence. These critical funds will help more children make better choices and resist the false allure of gang life.” The East Palo Alto School District adopted the G.R.E.A.T. program last year as a pilot project for 200 students. The program trains police officers to teach students life skills, gang awareness, and anti-violence techniques. During the 13-week curriculum, students develop values and practice behaviors that enable them to avoid destructive activities. The grant will pay for officer overtime, training, materials, student field trips, and a summer component at the San Francisco 49ers Academy and the Boys and Girls Club. Academy Executive Director Michele Sharkey said officers also benefit from the program because it “connects them with the young people they serve and protect. It builds relationships.” “If we’re going to have a permanent effect on gangs and violence, then we have to focus on our youths,” said East Palo Alto Police Chief Ronald L. Davis. “G.R.E.A.T provides positive alternatives to youths. To me, this is how you reduce crime.” ##
09.24.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges Passage of R&D Tax Credit September 24th, 2006 September 21, 2006Eshoo Urges Passage of R&D Tax Credit September 21, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, and 62 colleagues sent a letter to Speaker Dennis Hastert and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi urging consideration of legislation to extend and reform the Research and Development Tax Credit. Despite broad bipartisan support, the credit was allowed to expire at the end of 2005. Click here to read the entire letter. ##
09.20.2006	+ SHARE Committee Approves Eshoo Biodefense Bill September 20th, 2006 September 20, 2006Committee Approves Eshoo Biodefense Bill September 20, 2006 Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee voted unanimously Wednesday to establish a new office designed to accelerate the development of medical countermeasures against bioterrorism and pandemic health threats. The bill, H.R. 5533, introduced by Reps. Anna Eshoo, D-Calif., and Mike Rogers, R-Mich., would create the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) within the Department of Health and Human Services. “We’re in a race against time with both terrorists and nature,” said Eshoo, a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “We can’t depend on the marketplace alone to deliver medicines we need to save lives after another anthrax attack, a ‘dirty bomb,’ or a virulent pandemic.” BARDA would coordinate federal efforts to develop innovative new antidotes and vaccines against biological weapons, such as small pox, and against rapidly evolving infectious diseases, such as Asian bird flu. The lack of commercial demand for such drugs has discouraged companies from developing them and created a funding gap known as the “Valley of Death.” BARDA would bridge that gap by making interim payments at key development milestones, thereby encouraging companies to pursue medicines showing promise in early research. The bill, known as the Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2006, would authorize $160 million a year to fund BARDA in 2007 and 2008. “I hope the House will recognize the same urgency as our Committee did today and quickly send this bill to the President before Congress adjourns,” Eshoo said. “This is a race we can’t afford to lose.” ##
09.20.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Criticizes GOP ‘Report’ on Al-Qaeda September 20th, 2006 September 20, 2006Eshoo Criticizes GOP ‘Report’ on Al-Qaeda September 20, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, a member of the House Intelligence Committee, criticized the release of a document on Wednesday by the Committee’s Republican staff that purports to assess the threat posed by al-Qaeda and Islamic extremists. “This paper tells us nothing new,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “It’s not a report on anything. It’s a scrapbook of miscellaneous news clippings that doesn’t add a shred of information about the threats we face or what our Committee is doing to address them. “It raises issues the committee has not examined, such as whether new financial services laws have effectively limited terrorists’ ability to raise funds. And it ignores issues the committee has focused on, such as the threat of Islamic radicalism inside our prisons. “The public needs to know that this document came from the Committee’s Republican staff. It’s not the work of the full Intelligence Committee, nor does it reflect any expert analysis from the Intelligence Community. The Committee’s job is to legislate and conduct oversight of intelligence programs, not to dabble in threat analysis. “It’s disappointing and disturbing that the Committee’s Republican majority released this document over the objection of Committee Democrats. Our country is simultaneously engaged in a war, combating terrorism, and working to curb the spread of nuclear proliferation. Republicans and Democrats should be working together to improve our intelligence capabilities and protect national security.” The paper released Wednesday marks the second time in a month that the Republican majority has issued a questionable document prepared by its staff that is not the product of the full Intelligence Committee. A similar Republican staff report in August on Iran’s nuclear ambitions contained “erroneous, misleading and unsubstantiated statements,” according to the United Nation’s International Atomic Energy Agency, which called parts of the document “outrageous and dishonest.” ##
09.13.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on the Fifth Anniversary of the 9/11 Attacks September 13th, 2006 September 13, 2006Eshoo Statement on Fifth Anniversary of 9/11 Attacks September 13, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement in the Congressional Record regarding consideration of House Resolution 994, Expressing the Sense of the House of Representatives on the Fifth Anniversary of the Terrorists Attacks Launched Against the United States on September 11, 2001. “Mr. Speaker, today we join together to honor the nearly 3,000 people who perished in the heinous attacks on our country five years ago. The images of that day remain vivid in our minds, as do the emotions we all felt – the shock, the grief – as we realized that a handful of terrorists plotting halfway around the world were capable of destroying so many innocent lives on American soil. September 11, 2001, shattered the illusion that our homeland would always provide safe sanctuary from those who would do us harm. “Five years later, we also remember how the events of September 11 brought our country together. As we did after Pearl Harbor, America showed its true colors. After the twin towers fell, we put aside our political differences to unite behind a pledge to make our country safer and to track down and punish those responsible for the attacks. With the world on our side, we had a unique opportunity to marshal our vast resources to destroy the al Qaeda terrorist network for good. “We made a good start. At home, we moved quickly to tighten airport security and to reorganize our homeland defenses and intelligence infrastructure to close gaps that enabled the terrorists to use our own commercial airliners as weapons against us. Overseas, working with our allies, our military took the fight to al Qaeda and the Taliban, who had provided safe harbor to the terrorists and their training camps in Afghanistan for far too long. “Today, however, it is clear that we have failed to finish the job we needed to do. Instead of committing our forces to pursuing al Qaeda’s leaders – including Osama bin Laden, who is still at large – we embarked on an unnecessary war of choice in Iraq that has squandered our resources and the world’s goodwill without making us measurably safer. “Domestically, we’ve spent billions to secure our airports, but we’ve neglected the security of our ports and the cyber security of our technological infrastructure and communications networks. Chronic underfunding and lax security standards have left our nation’s ports and cargo containers a soft underbelly, and the President’s ongoing failure to appoint an Assistant Homeland Security Secretary for Cyber Security has created a leadership void in this critical sector, leaving us vulnerable to a telecom disaster on the scale of an ‘electronic Pearl Harbor.’ “It’s not too late to change course to do what must be done to prevail in the real war against terrorism. “We must recommit to finishing the job in Afghanistan, to fully funding our counterterrorism intelligence programs at home and abroad, to increasing the size of our Special Forces, to improving our human intelligence capability and to securing nuclear materials around the world. “Only then will we truly be able to say that we have fully honored those who lost their lives on September 11.” ##
09.13.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement Urging Nomination of a Cyber Security Czar September 13th, 2006 September 13, 2006Eshoo Statement Urging Nomination of a Cyber Security Czar September 13, 2006 Washington, D.C. –Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, delivered the following statement Wednesday at a hearing by the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet entitled “Cybersecurity: Protecting America’s Critical Infrastructure, Economy, and Consumers.” “Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thanks to the witnesses for joining us today. “As a member of the House Intelligence Committee, I take very seriously the range of threats to our country from terrorists and other enemies, including threats to the basic infrastructure of our telecommunications networks and the Internet. “In the 21st Century, no part of our national infrastructure is more important than our technological infrastructure and communications networks. “Former Cyber Security Czar Richard Clarke once described the potential for a telecom disaster as an ‘electronic Pearl Harbor.’ CRS has estimated a cyberattack could produce an economic blow exceeding $200 billion. “This is undoubtedly a shared responsibility of government, the telecommunications industry, business, and consumers, and critical gaps in security remain unaddressed at every level. “I’m increasingly concerned that cybersecurity is not receiving the attention it requires from the federal government. “In the wake of 9/11, the Administration has slowly diminished responsibility for and visibility of cybersecurity matters at the federal level. Instead, they have focused almost exclusively on threats to air safety and border security. These are critical threats to our national security but they are not the only ones. We must attend to all critical sectors, including cybersecurity. “The position of Cyber Security Czar once resided at the White House and reported directly to the President, but after Richard Clarke’s resignation in 2003, the position was relegated to a mid-level position in the Department of Homeland Security. “In July 2005, after significant pressure from Congress and the private sector, DHS Secretary Chertoff announced the creation of an Assistant Secretary for Cyber Security and Telecommunications. The Assistant Secretary would have the authority to set policy and develop public-private partnerships with industry to improve national cybersecurity. “But in the year since the position was announced, the Administration has yet to even nominate someone to fill it. “Clearly, we cannont expect national leadership in cybersecurity without an individual to lead the effort. I hope the President will act soon to appoint someone to assume this vital function. “I also believe much of the responsibility for America’s cybersecurity lies with the private sector and individual citizens. “Many of the most potent viruses and worms that afflict our computer networks are able to do so only because the vast majority of personal computers are not secure, thus becoming the unwitting distribution network for destructive programs. “Business and individuals must be vigilant in maintaining appropriate security on their networks and personal computers, and utilize sound security practices. “The federal government should play a leadership role in promoting effective security standards and practices and assisting private and public institutions in reaching out to individual users to protect themselves from cyberattacks. “Data security legislation unanimously endorsed by this Committee would provide significant government leadership in endorsing and promoting robust security systems and standards, and I hope the House will consider our bill before Congress adjourns. “We have to do better than react to an ‘electronic Pearl Harbor.’ I look forward to working with my colleauges to make sure that we do everything we can to protect our nation’s vital computer and communications networks.” ##
08.24.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Recognized For Her Support of New Forensic Crime Lab August 24th, 2006 August 24, 2006Eshoo Recognized For Her Support of New Forensic Crime Lab [CBS 5 coverage] August 23, 2006 San Mateo — Rep. Anna Eshoo and Sen. Barbara Boxer on Wednesday toured the new facilities at the San Mateo County Forensic Crime Lab, where there were recognized with a plaque by Sheriff Don Horsley for all their work to procure necessary funding for this unique facility. They were joined by San Mateo County Supervisor Jerry Hill, President of the Board of Supervisors, which partnered with Rep. Eshoo and Senator Boxer to make these facilities possible. They received a warm welcome from the entire staff, especially Forensic Specialist Katie Lassiter, Employee of the Year. The Forensic Crime Lab provides support for all law enforcement agencies in the area, including the FBI, DEA and the ATF. The tour included demonstrations from the DNA Lab, the Drug Lab, the Trace Analysis Lab, the Latent Fingerprint Lab and the Firearms Lab. Over the past two years, Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, worked hard to secure $1.1 million in funding to upgrade the equipment of the crime lab; with $600,000 appropriated in 2006 and $500,000 in 2005. Her FY07 funding request included $3.9 million for further upgrades. [CBS 5 coverage]
08.17.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Ruling Against NSA Wiretapping Program August 17th, 2006 August 17, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, released the following statement in response to the decision today by U.S. District Judge Anna Diggs Taylor in ACLU v NSA: “I had deep concerns about this program when it was first revealed by the news media last December. Since being briefed on it by the Bush Administration, I have always maintained that this security program could and should operate fully under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “This is an important and welcome decision that bears watching through the appellate process.” ###
08.10.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Welcomes Declaration of Salmon Fishery Failure August 10th, 2006 August 10, 2006 PALO ALTO, Calif. – Repl Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, hailed the declaration today of a commercial fishery failure for Northern California and Oregon. “This is the news we’ve been waiting and pushing hard for,” said Eshoo, who received the news in a phone call from U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez. “This gives the green light to Congress to appropriate the money needed to help not just the fishermen but also related businesses down the economic stream which have been devastated by the early closure of the salmon season.” The declaration will enable Congress to appropriate funds to the affected states for distribution to fishermen and others suffering economic hardships. The declaration covers the area from Point Sur, California, to Cape Falcon, Oregon. In April of this year, Gutierrez approved a plan that virtually closed commercial salmon fishing off the West Coast until 2007. This action represents the largest commercial salmon fishing closure in the history of the West Coast and the impact it has had on fishermen and coastal communities, particularly in Half Moon Bay and Santa Cruz, has been nothing short of devastating. California and Oregon have estimated the losses of this decision will exceed $81 million. Eshoo, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, has been demanding that the Administration take action to provide relief since the fishing closure was announced. The commercial fishery failure declaration follows a decision by the Commerce Department on July 6th to declare a fishery resource disaster, which enabled fishermen to apply for low-interest Small Business Administration Economic Injury Disaster Loans. So far, nearly $200,000 in SBA loans has been approved. Eshoo pledged to continue to work with her colleagues in Congress to ensure that the necessary funds are appropriated in a timely fashion. ###
07.26.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Committee Passage of Social Security Number Protection Legislation July 26th, 2006 July 26, 2006 Eshoo Applauds Committee Passage of Social Security Number Protection Legislation July 26, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, applauded today’s passage of H.R. 1078, the Social Security Number Protection Act, by the House Energy and Commerce Committee and stressed the need for Congress to act quickly on this legislation. “Our Social Security numbers can be used to access everything from confidential medical records to our financial histories,” Eshoo said. “While the use of Social Security numbers offers convenience for our own personal use, they expose us to financial and personal risk if they wind up in the wrong hands.” H.R. 1078 requires the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), in consultation with the Attorney General and Commissioner of Social Security, to promulgate regulations restricting the sale and purchase of Social Security numbers. It further directs the FTC to ensure that its regulations are broad enough to prevent these numbers from being used to commit crimes, such as fraud or deception, while providing exemptions for legitimate purposes such as public health services and law enforcement. Eshoo highlighted the growing threat of identity theft, including the recent theft of personal information of nearly 27 million Veterans and her own experiences, as motivation to see this bill enacted. “As someone who has experienced the theft of my Social Security number, which was then used to file a fraudulent tax return in my name, I know first-hand about the disastrous consequences that can result from the theft and misuse of one’s Social Security number,” Eshoo said. “I can tell you there is nothing more chilling than to know someone has access to such vital personal information.” The bill will now be considered by the House Ways and Means Committee prior to moving to the House floor for consideration. ##
07.20.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Praises Early Reopen of Highway 1 at Devil’s Slide July 20th, 2006 July 20, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, praised the California Department of Transportation’s announcement that Highway 1 at Devil’s Slide will reopen on August 4th, two months earlier than planned. “Alleluia! This is the news we’ve been waiting for,” Eshoo said. “I saw firsthand the impressive work of CalTrans and this is an extraordinary achievement. Thanks to CalTrans’ monumental efforts, outstanding leadership and dedication to helping our community recover as quickly as possible, my constituents on the Coastside will be granted relief two full months ahead of schedule.” Highway 1 has been closed at Devil’s Slide since April 2nd, when a landslide caused the rain-saturated hillside to sink toward the ocean, opening large cracks in the highway. The closure has caused massive traffic problems for all Coastside residents, devastated the local economy, and virtually isolated coastal communities south of the closure. Eshoo successfully pushed for federal funds to assist with disaster response and recovery in the region. In addition to a federal disaster declaration that made FEMA funds available for recovery, the Small Business Administration has made low-interest emergency loans available to businesses that have lost revenue, and the Federal Highway Administration will reimburse CalTrans up to 100% of the costs of repairs to Highway 1. Eshoo visited the Devil’s Slide site less than one week ago, on Saturday, July 15th, with CalTrans District 4 Director Bijan Sartipi, Slide Project Manager Keyhan Moghbel, State Senator Jackie Speier and Half Moon Bay Mayor Marina Fraser. “The reopening of Highway 1 at Devil’s Slide is the single most important step toward helping the San Mateo County Coastside to recover from the recent storms,” Eshoo said. “This is an example of collaboration at its best. State, Federal, County and City government have come together, along with elected officials and community leaders, to literally put the San Mateo County Coastside on the road to recovery.” ###
07.20.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on H. Res. 921, Condemning the Recent Attacks Against the State of Israel July 20th, 2006 July 20, 2006 MS. ESHOO: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of this Resolution which condemns Hezbollah and Hamas, the terrorist attacks against Israel and the full support of the U.S. for Israel to defend herself and live in peace among her neighbors. “As I support this Resolution, I believe it is deficient in not expressing this body’s strongest desire for all parties involved in the current conflict to exercise military restraint in order to spare the lives of innocent Israeli and Lebanese civilians. “While the Lebanese people have been making laudable strides toward a more positive future and a peaceful coexistence in the region, terrorists have sought continuously to ignite conflict. The Government of Lebanon has paid a price for their stand against Hezbollah and Syria, enduring assassinations, political and social turmoil, and now the wide-scale destruction of civilian lives and critical infrastructure. “As a result the people of Lebanon are alongside our friends in Israel in being victimized by Hezbollah and Hamas in the current crisis. Both sides are enduring extraordinary hardship from air and rocket attacks and hundreds of civilians have been killed during the current military campaign. The terrorists have succeeded in creating a humanitarian crisis which the international community, including the United States, has yet to respond to. The escalating conflict is nearing full-scale war and terrorists and their state sponsors are realizing their goal of scuttling the Roadmap to Peace and pushing regional leaders away from the negotiating table. “I believe the United States has the responsibility and the power to be the voice of reason and put an end to brinkmanship. The region is desperate for restraint on the part of all parties. The Resolution is silent on this. “It should be our goal today to protect the civilian lives and critical infrastructure that have been targeted in the current fighting, and work to bring about restraint to resolve the crisis without further bloodshed. “We need a policy in the Middle East that does not begin and end with military force. A political solution must be structured and the U.S. can and should take a decisive role through diplomacy and negotiations to shape a solution to the conflict. “It is regrettable that the above is not addressed in House Resolution 921.” ###
07.19.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes to Override the President’s Veto of Stem Cell Research Bill July 19th, 2006 July 19, 2006 WASHINGTON – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, today voted to override President Bush’s veto of H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. Rep. Eshoo is an original cosponsor of H.R. 810, which allows federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, and permits researchers to utilize embryos from fertility clinics that would otherwise be discarded. The bill also brings embryonic stem cell research under the National Institutes of Health, ensuring rigorous controls and ethical guidelines on this research that only NIH can implement. “There is simply no substitute for this legislation,” Eshoo said. “Science and ethics can and indeed should be joined, and that’s exactly what this bill does.” Over the last five years, medical and scientific experts nationwide have learned about several limitations of the stem cell lines designated for research by President Bush in August 2001. In order for stem cell research to move forward, experts agree that new sources of stem cell lines must be made available. They also call for federal funding to support advanced embryonic stem cell research efforts, which will almost certainly save many thousands of lives and provide hope to millions of Americans afflicted with terrible, debilitating diseases and injuries, including Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, spinal cord injuries, strokes, heart disease, diabetes, burns and arthritis. “The federal government has a key role to lead, to encourage and to assist in the cutting-edge research which can and will save the lives of our citizens,” Eshoo said. “A veto of H.R. 810 only succeeds in preventing life-saving cures from reaching American patients sooner, and prevents the establishment of national standards for this research.” President Bush has long opposed legislation expanding embryonic stem cell research or federal funding, citing moral and ethical concerns about utilizing donated or discarded embryos. Speaking on the President’s veto today, Eshoo said, “the President’s decision to use his veto pen – the first veto of his Presidency – is a function of political science, not real science.” H.R. 810 passed the House on May 24, 2005, by a vote of 238 to 194, and the Senate on July 18, 2006, by a vote of 63 to 37. The President vetoed the bill on Wednesday, July 19, 2006, prompting the House to consider a veto override proposal. In order to override the President’s veto, the measure requires a two-thirds vote in both chambers of Congress. The veto override failed the House by a vote of 235 to 193. A transcript of Rep. Eshoo’s statement is below. The Honorable Anna G. Eshoo Statement on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of H.R. 810, the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act July 19, 2006 “Mr. Speaker, unfortunately the President has placed the dogmatic views of some of his supporters ahead of sound science, ahead of public health, and ahead of our country’s best interests. “The Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act will not merely advance medical science. It will almost certainly save many thousands of lives and provide hope to millions of Americans afflicted with terrible, debilitating diseases and injuries, including Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, spinal cord injuries, strokes, heart disease, diabetes, burns and arthritis. “I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill and I’m deeply saddened that the President has seen fit to use the first veto of his presidency on this crucial legislation. “H.R. 810 will bring embryonic stem cell research under the National Institutes of Health, ensuring rigorous controls and ethical guidelines on this research that only NIH can implement. “Congress has a moral imperative to frame these issues and establish a national policy that integrates the best of science and the highest ethical standards. “Without this legislation, much of the critical funding for stem-cell research will be available only from the States, from private sources, or from foreign governments who are investing billions in this field. “If we don’t override the President’s veto, stem cell research will be curtailed in the United States, but it will not end. Researchers and doctors in the United Kingdom, Sweden, Israel, China, Australia, South Korea, the Czech Republic, and elsewhere are moving full speed ahead on this vital research and will continue to do so. “If the President’s veto of this bill is successful, he will only succeed in preventing life-saving cures from reaching American patients sooner, and prevent the establishment of national standards for this research. “Mr. Speaker, science and ethics can and indeed should be joined, and this legislation sets out a comprehensive national policy for this vital research. “The President’s veto represents an exercise of political science over real science, and must not be allowed to stand. “Vote to override this veto.” ### Return to Top
07.11.2006	+ SHARE House Passes Eshoo Computer Server Energy Efficiency Bill July 11th, 2006 July 12, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives adopted H.R. 5646, legislation sponsored by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, calling for additional research to reduce energy costs and electricity consumption by computer servers and data centers. H.R. 5646 passed by a vote of 417 to 4. “The cumulative energy cost for servers and data centers in the U.S. is approximately $3.3 billion annually, and studies have shown energy efficient servers can save up to 80 percent in electricity and cooling costs,” said Rep. Eshoo. “The energy burden of these facilities will continue to grow rapidly, so it’s critical for government, industry, and consumers to be able to identify the most efficient technology to meet their needs.” The U.S. server market is expected to grow from 2.8 million units in 2005 to 4.9 million units in 2009. This growth will result in increased energy demand resulting in soaring energy costs as companies deploy greater numbers of servers, consuming more power and requiring more energy to cool. The bill cosponsored by Rep. Mike Rogers, R-Mich., directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to identify the potential energy and cost savings to the federal government and private business with the purchase of energy efficient servers, and includes a sense of Congress that it is in the best interests of the United States for purchasers of computer servers to give high priority to energy efficiency. H.R. 5646 now goes to the Senate for consideration. ###
07.07.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Disaster Declaration as Important ‘First Step’ July 7th, 2006 July 7, 2006 WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, applauded U.S. Commerce Secretary Carlos Gutierrez’s decision to declare a “fishery resource disaster” on the West Coast but added that this was the beginning, not the end, of the federal government’s responsibility to provide disaster assistance to respond to this crisis. The Secretary’s declaration offers fishermen access to low-interest Small Business Administration Economic Injury Disaster Loans but falls short of the direct financial aid that would be provided under a “fishery failure disaster.” “While providing fishermen with access to loans may provide short-term relief, these fishermen have lost their livelihood and are unable to repay loans,” Eshoo said. “More needs to be done to help them.” On June 29th, Gutierrez testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “As a Member of this Committee, I pressed the Secretary about his failure to acknowledge the disastrous impact the commercial salmon fishery closure has had on fishermen and communities up and down the West Coast, and called on him to declare a fishery failure disaster,” Eshoo said. The Commerce Secretary will be dispatching high-level officials to the Klamath River communities beginning the week of July 10th to expedite the collection of economic impact data. This data will help determine whether a “fishery failure disaster” can be declared and further assistance – including direct economic assistance – can be provided. “I intend to use this Declaration as a starting block and will continue to work closely with my colleagues in Congress to secure the necessary federal assistance that the fishermen need,” Eshoo added. Individuals seeking assistance should contact Rep. Eshoo’s District Office at (650) 323-2984 or (831) 335-2020 or the SBA’s Office of Disaster Assistance: U.S. Small Business Administration Office of Disaster Assistance Field Operations Center – West Post Office Box 419004 Sacramento, California 95841-9004 (800) 488-5323 (916) 735-1500 ###
06.29.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Demands Action from Commerce Secretary on Behalf of Salmon Fishermen June 29th, 2006 WASHINGTON – Today, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, demanded action by Commerce Secretary Gutierrez on the disaster faced by commercial salmon fishermen on the West Coast. “There has been a failure, in my view, to respond to the dire emergency that’s affecting the commercial salmon fishing industry,” Eshoo told Secretary Gutierrez during a hearing before the House Energy and Commerce Committee on the state of the U.S. economy. “This has had a devastating impact on salmon fishermen and related businesses along the California and Oregon coasts.” In April of this year, Secretary Gutierrez approved a plan that virtually closed commercial salmon fishing off of the West Coast until 2007. This action represents the largest commercial salmon fishing closure in the history of the West Coast and the impact it has had on fishermen and coastal communities, particularly in Half Moon Bay and Santa Cruz, has been nothing short of devastating. California and Oregon have estimated the losses of this decision will exceed $81 million. On May 19th the Southwest Regional office of NOAA Fisheries sent a document to NOAA headquarters pertaining to this year’s commercial salmon fishing season off the coasts of California and Oregon. According to NOAA staff, the document from the regional office included an economic analysis of the 2006 salmon season, including projected losses, and recommended that a disaster be declared so that federal assistance could be given to affected communities. Secretary Gutierrez promised to provide the document to Rep. Eshoo and her House Colleagues. “The impact of the closure on the fishermen and the coastal communities is, really in many ways, unfathomable.” Eshoo added, “if you stand up and take action on this, it will help save the livelihoods that have been destroyed.” Below is a full transcript of Rep. Eshoo’s statement before the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Rep. Anna G. Eshoo House Committee on Energy and Commerce June 29, 2006 “Thank you Mr. Chairman. Good morning Mr. Secretary, and thank you for meeting with some of us that represent coastal communities in California, Oregon, and Washington State. “I’m going to direct my opening statement to the issue at hand and the devastation that we are talking about. America going to work. There are many, many, many of our constituents who are part of the fishing industry, that you heard about this morning, that have been devastated by what’s taking place in these coastal communities. “There has been a failure, in my view, to respond to the dire emergency that’s affecting the commercial salmon fishing industry, and this has had a devastating impact on salmon fishermen and related businesses along the California and Oregon Coast. “You’ve been to my congressional district, which everyone thinks of as solely Silicon Valley. But on the other side of the hill is the magnificent coast side, and this is a vital part of the economy there. The impact of the closure on the fishermen and the coastal communities is, really in many ways, unfathomable because it stretches across so many parts of this sector. “This is the largest commercial salmon fishing closure in the history of the West Coast. So we need your help. I think this has been worsened by the failure to recognize the damage the decision has caused and so your response is really going to be key. It is in your hands. Very often there are decisions that are made that span many agencies and many individuals. If you stand up and take action on this, it will help save the livelihoods that have been destroyed; people have actually lost their living. “Thank you for being here today. I appreciate the time that you spent with a handful of Members earlier and we are going to look forward to the action, I’m confident, after hearing the facts that you will take. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. “ ### Return to Top
06.28.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes the Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act June 28th, 2006 June 29, 2006 Washington — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following statement on the floor of the House today in opposition to H.R. 4761, the Deep Ocean Energy Resources Act of 2006. “Mr. Chairman, I rise in the strongest opposition possible to this legislation which will erase 25 years of critical environmental protection. Only a month ago, the House rejected an attempt to lift the ban on coastal drilling, and yet today we are being told that the solution to our addiction to oil is more oil; that the oil companies who are reaping record profits need more relief from Federal regulation, and that more of our public lands need to be sacrificed for their bottom lines. “This bill should be entitled Nothing is Sacred Any More. This is an outrage. “The wheels have come off here. This bill not only hurts us in terms of the fiscal condition of the country; it gives the wrong message. It sends a terrible message to people in States that have spoken out over and over and over again. Their voices will be ignored. The vote will be ignored. “The Republican Governor of California is vehemently opposed to this. This is an insult to local governments, to State governments, and to anyone that wants to land on the side of the future for our country and not the past.” ###
06.16.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes Against Iraq Resolution June 16th, 2006 June 16, 2006 WASHINGTON – Representative Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, today voted against H. Res. 861, a non-binding House resolution restating the President’s policy of open-ended engagement in Iraq. The measure passed 256 to 153. On June 15, Eshoo made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to resolution. “Mr. Speaker, I thank our distinguished ranking member of the House Intelligence Committee and Congressman Murtha. We salute you for your extraordinary leadership. “Mr. Speaker, we are here today because the majority has brought a resolution before the House. It is a resolution. It is a nonbinding resolution. For those that are listening in, it just means that we are going to talk. There is not any action that will come out of it. “Let us think about the context, the broader context of where we are today, June 15, 2006. Across this magnificent country, almost two-thirds of the American people, it matters not where they live, what their economic background is, what their political affiliation is, have now lost faith in the President’s war in Iraq. “They have also lost faith in the President. He had high ratings. He is now down to about 33 percent. And it is about this issue of war in Iraq. Why? Why? Because what was advanced? We had to go in because there was an eminent threat. If we did not get them, they were going to get us. Except that premise, the President even acknowledged, did not turn out to be so. “We all honor and support our troops. None of us will stipulate to anything less. We all honor the tradition that they have set. We all stipulate to that. We know that there are terrorists in this world. And we will pursue them in the pursuit of the protection of our Nation. “But there is a difference between Iraq and the war on terrorism. And some people in the Congress, unlike people in the country, do not want to acknowledge that. So where are we today? Our intelligence agency demoralized, intelligence manipulated, the American people ashamed of what we are doing instead of being proud. “It is too bad, my friends, that the term ‘cut and run’ is ever used against a man [Rep. Murtha] that has served so honorably and has the medals to show them. I submit that it is the Congress that has cut and run on accountability, on not doing oversight, on not watching where the money is going. “Potable water has not been improved in Iraq. Even retired generals, for the first time in my life of 63 years have I ever heard retired generals that have spoken out and said this is not a policy, stay the course is not a policy. “Yes, we need a debate. We need a debate about alternatives. About alternatives. This is a regrettable instrument that you have brought to the floor today. I think two-thirds of the American people understand it.” ### Return to Top
06.07.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo and Rogers Introduce Biodefense Measure June 7th, 2006 June 7, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Because of the looming threats of biological terrorism and pandemic disease, the U.S. needs clear strategies and dependable resources for defending against and responding to potential public health emergencies resulting from acts of terror or communicable disease outbreaks. Yesterday, Reps. Mike Rogers, R-Mich., and Anna G. Eshoo, D-Calif., introduced a bipartisan measure that ensures development of the necessary strategies and resources to help protect the public against the dangers of bioterrorist attacks or illnesses such as avian flu, if and when they occur. “Americans live each day under the threat of bioterrorist attacks and naturally occurring diseases that could cause a pandemic, such as avian flu. We need to reinvent our response to the threat of deadly pandemics and infectious diseases,” Eshoo said. “America needs to accelerate its development of drugs and vaccines to protect our nation’s families from deliberate, accidental or natural medical emergencies that involve biological pathogens or chemical or radiological agents,” Rogers added. “We need action to prevent a bioterrorism or pandemic disaster.” The Biodefense and Pandemic Vaccine and Drug Development Act of 2006 would: Create the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to establish a single point of federal authority for advanced research and development of medical countermeasures, including drugs and vaccines to respond to bioterrorism and natural disease outbreaks. Motivate academic researchers, drug and vaccine manufacturers, and other possible partners to commit substantial resources to accelerate development of medical countermeasures and bring new and improved products to the market more quickly. Eshoo and Rogers both serve on the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health and on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. The Rogers-Eshoo legislation will be considered by the Energy and Commerce Committee, under the leadership of Chairman Joe Barton, R-Texas, and Health Subcommittee Chairman Nathan Deal, R-Ga. “I look forward to working with Congressman Rogers, Congresswoman Eshoo, and Chairman Deal this year to ensure America is properly prepared for the biological attack or pandemic outbreak we all fear,” Chairman Barton said. “I applaud Congressman Rogers for tackling an issue so important for America’s national security and well being.” The Rogers-Eshoo measure is the companion bill to BARDA legislation pending in the U.S. Senate and sponsored by Sen. Richard Burr. “I am pleased Congressman Rogers and Congresswoman Eshoo introduced this legislation in the House,” said Burr, R-N.C. “We need to improve our ability to prepare for and respond to national threats, be they accidental, deliberate, or naturally occurring. This bill will ensure faster development of better medical countermeasures to protect the country from these threats.” “Our bill enables the Department of Health and Human Services to coordinate the advanced research and development of countermeasures in the event of a public health emergency. This makes the public sector more dynamic, nimble and accountable by bringing more and better medical countermeasures to the public faster in case of emergency,” Eshoo said. “Our nation lacks protection now and will remain vulnerable until Congress acts,” Rogers said. “More must be done in advance of a bioterrorist attack or pandemic outbreak to minimize illness and death, as well as catastrophic social, economic and political disruption.” ## Return to Top
06.06.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo’s Request for Disaster Declaration Yields Essential Funds For Local Counties June 6th, 2006 June 6, 2006 San Mateo and Santa Cruz County residents will benefit from a declaration making 17 California Counties federal major disaster areas. FEMA announced last night that the President has declared a Major Disaster for the State of California triggering the release of federal funds to help communities recover from the severe storms, flooding, mudslides and landslides that occurred March 29 to April 16, 2006. The critical federal funds that will flow as a result of this declaration will help alleviate the damages from the storms of spring 2006 and will help prevent damages from future storms. After assessing the severity of the storm’s damage within the 14th Congressional District, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, called upon California’s Governor to assist with the repair of East Palo Alto’s levees which were in danger of breaching and flooding the City. Later, she called upon the Governor to use the opportunity of his April meeting with the President to discuss federal funding for disaster relief for California. On May 15th she wrote to the President, requesting a federal disaster declaration for the California counties affected by the storms. She and 22 of her California colleagues then called upon the President to support the Governor’s call for federal disaster relief. The declaration making the 17 Counties major disaster areas is a big step toward recovery. Storms with heavy sustained rain damaged property, closed the coastal highways, caused mudslides and resulted in extensive flooding. The economic costs alone are enormous. The Governor identified nearly $70 million in damage to public infrastructure, and a need for $121 million in emergency transportation repairs. The storms led to more than $300 million in losses in agriculture, a figure that is likely to grow. In the 14th Congressional District, San Mateo and Santa Cruz Counties have experienced significant damage and loss, totaling more than $36 million. Effective response to this damage far exceeds local and state capabilities, and timely federal assistance will provide help to those affected as quickly as possible. The declaration provides for a 75 percent reimbursement by the Federal government for eligible repairs. The assistance will help communities repair buildings, highways and bridges, flood and water control structures, and other critical infrastructure and help rebuild businesses and agriculture. “I’m grateful to the City, County and State officials and emergency responders for their work to keep their communities safe,” Eshoo said. “I applaud everyone who has assisted in this effort. This is an example of collaboration at its best.” ###
06.04.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges Students and Parents to Examine Consolidation Options for Student Loans June 4th, 2006 June 5, 2006Eshoo Urges Students and Parents to Examine Consolidation Options for Student Loans June 5, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Because the interest rates on outstanding federal student loans will rise to their highest levels in years, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, is urging parents and students to consider their options for locking in lower interest rates now. “By acting before July 1st, students and their parents have the potential to lock in their loans at a lower interest rate, saving thousands of dollars over the lifetime of their loans,” Eshoo said. Student borrowers who consolidate before July 1st may be eligible to lock in a rate as low as 4.75 percent over the life of their loan(s)-which would save the typical undergraduate borrower almost $3,500 over the life of his or her loan. Students and parents must act quickly to ensure locking in these lower rates. After July 1st, rates will climb to 6.625 percent for continuing students, 7.25 percent for graduates, and 8 percent for parents. “These increases are a direct result of the Deficit Reduction Act enacted this February,” Eshoo said. “I voted against this legislation because it was a bad attempt to offset irresponsible budget decisions and pays for costly tax cuts on the backs of students who are furthering their education.” Information about consolidation can be found on Congresswoman Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov/. In order to address the interest rate hike, Eshoo is a cosponsor of H.R. 5010, the Reverse the Raid on Student Aid Act. This legislation would cut interest rates in half from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent, for students with subsidized loans – which go to students with the most financial need – and from 8.5 percent to 4.25 percent for parent borrowers, starting in July 2006. Under H.R. 5150, the typical undergraduate student borrower with $17,500 in student loan debt would save $5,600 over the life of his or her federal college loans. ##
05.18.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Addresses Economic Strategy Institute on Broadband Innovation May 18th, 2006 March 15, 2006Eshoo Addresses Economic Strategy Institute on Broadband Innovation March 15, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following remarks at an Economic Stratey Insisute forum entitled “Is America’s Technology Future at Risk?” where she was introduced by author Clyde Prestowitz. “Thank you Clyde, for your kind introduction and for inviting me to join you today to discuss America’s technology future. “I’d like to begin today by telling you about a significant policy initiative which encompasses many of the issues you’re discussing today at this conference. “Several months ago, I joined with the House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and other colleagues to launch the Innovation Agenda: A Commitment to Competitiveness to Keep America #1. “This agenda was developed after extensive consultation with America’s leaders in high-technology, biotechnology, venture capital, education, and academia beginning in my Congressional District at Stanford University. Subsequent meetings were held around the country with private-sector leaders to not only seek their views, but also to develop a plan for our nation to be competitive and #1, and remain so. “The House Democrats make a commitment to the following with our Innovation Agenda: “Greatly increase our investments in R&D, including doubling NSF funding and modernizing and making permanent the R&D tax credit; “Improve education in science and math and make college accessible to any student who is qualified to attend; “Provide universal broadband access for all Americans in five years; “Achieve energy independence in ten years; “Promote opportunities for small business and innovative startups, ensuring access to venture capital, improving the patent system, and reducing health care costs. “I was very pleased that the President acknowledged the competitive challenge facing our nation and featured the same proposals in his State of the Union address. I believe these are among the most important issues we face as a country and we will need to work together – as Democrats and Republicans – to preserve America’s leadership in innovation and technology. “Turning now to broadband and the role it will certainly play in our ability to remain competitive, I think it’s instructive to look at where we’ve been and where we’re going. “With the impending acquisition of BellSouth by AT&T, it’s clear that the telecom wars surrounding the 1996 Telecommunications Act are concluding with the reformation of Ma Bell. “Decisions by the federal courts and the FCC to deny reasonable local loop access to competitive telephone providers doomed any prospect of local wireline telephone competition. “The mergers that ensued following these decisions are the final shovels of dirt on the efforts of Congress to engender local telephone competition in the ’96 Act. “With the completion of the AT&T-BellSouth merger, AT&T and Verizon will together serve more than 60% of the households in America. While the Bells are likely to become increasingly competitive with cable companies, that industry is also highly concentrated within regional markets, and most consumers are now able to choose only a single cable provider. “What’s happened to our nation’s progress in promoting advanced communications while the Bells have been busy eliminating local and long distance phone competition and consolidating the telecom industry? “Well, the situation couldn’t be bleaker: The United States has fallen from 4th to 16th in broadband penetration worldwide since 2001. “As the country that has led the world in innovation for the past century, invented the telephone and developed the Internet, this is a sad state of affairs. “Some of our competitors – such as China, South Korea, and India – have avoided many of the problems associated with advanced telecommunications deployment because their existing infrastructures were extremely limited. They haven’t had to manage a difficult transition from vast telephone networks to broadband. Instead, they’ve gone straight to a high-speed, fiber-optic infrastructure. “On the other hand, a number of countries currently outpacing the U.S. in broadband deployment (such as Japan and several European countries) have chosen to adopt essentially the opposite broadband policies to those currently being implemented here, including broadband universal service policies and market-opening regulations. “In my view, Presidential leadership on broadband has been non-existent, and the Federal Communications Commission – under the leadership of Chairman Powell and Chairman Martin – has focused almost exclusively on promoting ‘market-based’ solutions that ignore the market power of entrenched incumbents. “We can no longer sit idly by while the rest of the world runs circles around us in the rollout of advanced communications services and universal broadband. “High speed, always-on broadband Internet communications will enable a vast array of advanced Internet applications and services including Voice over IP, video on-demand, electronic health, and distance education. “As your report aptly states, telecommunications is ‘the central nervous system of the entire economy.’ “The United States’ ability to deploy this advanced communications infrastructure is crucial to our future productivity and will in large part determine our ability to succeed in the global information economy. “What steps are being taken in Congress to address this urgent priority? “Any day now, House Energy & Commerce Committee Chairman Barton is likely to reveal telecommunications reform legislation. “While Chairman Barton had initially sought to enact comprehensive telecom reforms to address a broad array of issues related to IP-based services, he now appears to be focusing on a more limited set of issues. “The Bell companies — the few that are left — are aggressively pushing for regulatory relief to allow them to enter into video competition with cable without obtaining local franchises. They claim that without this regulatory relief, they won’t be able to invest in upgrading their copper-line networks and expand their broadband offerings. “Many analysts believe it’s unrealistic to imagine the Bell companies will stand pat with their DSL and telephone businesses while cable, WiFi, and other advanced broadband services continue to expand. I tend to agree with them. “That’s not to say that franchising regulations should not be looked at, and that Congress shouldn’t try to create a more streamlined process. “But I also believe that as we consider new regulatory ‘rules of the road’ for broadband providers we should not enable them to stifle competition in the provision of Internet content, applications, and services. “Franchising relief should not be considered without considering the terms by which these carriers will make content available to consumers. “For the foreseeable future, the cable and phone companies will serve as a ‘chokepoint’ for Internet access for the vast majority of Americans, and I believe its incumbent on Congress to ensure that the non-discriminatory framework that has allowed both the Internet to thrive, and competition on the Web to flourish, is preserved. “Without meaningful, enforceable ‘Net Neutrality’ rules, we’ll be enabling network operators to fundamentally change the open nature of the Internet and allow them to become gatekeepers for Internet users’ access to content. “In a widely circulated quote in Business Week by SBC (now AT&T) CEO Ed Whitacre said, ‘They don’t have any fiber out there. They don’t have any wires. They don’t have anything. They use my lines for free – and that’s bull. For a Google or a Yahoo! or a Vonage or anybody to expect to use these pipes for free is nuts!’ “What Mr. Whitacre ignores is the fact that his ‘pipes’ are not being used for free. Consumers are paying him quite a lot for this service. He would like to charge twice for the same transaction by also collecting ‘tolls’ from content providers. “He also ignores the fact that Google, Yahoo, and other Internet companies have invested heavily in their networks and their content offerings, which has created the demand for the broadband services AT&T markets. “Bell companies’ plans for ‘tiering’ of Internet service would fundamentally change the way the Internet has always operated – openly and without barriers to content. There can be arguments about whether this system is fair or necessary, but it’s difficult to dispute that this will fundamentally change users’ Internet experiences. “Finally, it’s important for Congress to create additional options for consumers to reach the Internet and relieve the competitive stranglehold on Internet access. “We should take affirmative steps to promote technologies such as broadband over power lines, satellite, WiFi, WiMax, and other high-speed Internet access alternatives. “During the House Energy & Commerce Committee’s consideration of Digital TV transition legislation last year, I offered an amendment to encourage the FCC to utilize its existing authority to promote innovation and competition by disseminating the valuable wireless communications licenses made available from analog TV spectrum among a wide variety of applicants, including small businesses and rural telephone companies. “By encouraging new entrants and innovative use of this valuable ‘beachfront’ spectrum, the Commission can create opportunities for vigorous competition and consumer choice. “We should also be looking at other ways to promote alternative technologies and innovative new services that can provide new on-ramps to the Information Superhighway. “Thank you again for having me here today and good luck with the remainder of this important conference.” ## Return to Top
05.17.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces Legislation To Force President’s Domestic Spying Program To Comply With Law May 17th, 2006 May 12, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, yesterday joined several Democratic colleagues on the House Intelligence and Judiciary Committees in introducing H.R. 5371, the Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA (LISTEN) Act. The legislation makes clear that any attempt to listen in on Americans or collect telephone or e-mail records must be conducted in accordance with the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (FISA), or Title III of the criminal code. In both cases, court warrants based on probable cause are required. The LISTEN Act states that FISA is the exclusive way to conduct electronic surveillance of U.S. persons on U.S. soil for intelligence purposes. It also states that, contrary to the President’s views, the Authorization for Use of Military Force in Afghanistan passed by Congress on September 14, 2001, did not constitute authority to engage in electronic surveillance outside of FISA. Furthermore, the legislation streamlines the ability to conduct surveillance on potential terrorists by providing additional tools to expedite emergency warrant applications, and authorizes funds to incorporate standardization, electronic filing and streamlined review procedures at the NSA and Department of Justice. It also requires the President to ensure that resources are adequate to process warrants, and requires the Administration to comply with FISA at all times. “Through his domestic spying program, the President is offering the American people a false choice between their security and the protection of the law for all Americans,” Eshoo said. “I refuse to believe that we must be forced to sacrifice one for the other, and the LISTEN Act will give the intelligence community additional resources to protect the American people, while ensuring their personal freedoms are fully protected.” Click here to read the Lawful Intelligence and Surveillance of Terrorists in an Emergency by NSA (LISTEN) Act. ###
05.17.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Reacts to Nomination of General Michael Hayden to Head CIA May 17th, 2006 May 8, 2006 Reacting to President Bush’s announcement this morning that he intends to nominate Air Force General Michael Hayden as the next Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) released the following statement: “As Director of the National Security Agency, General Hayden implemented and has been the chief defender of the President’s domestic spying program. I believe this controversial program has not been conducted under the law. Surely his nomination will be mired in controversy as Republicans and Democrats voice their deep concerns over his nomination, and at a time when the CIA needs a leader who will revitalize a demoralized agency. “Two years ago, Congress initiated the most sweeping reform of our nation’s intelligence community since the Cold War, and in the aftermath of these changes there has been an intense struggle between the CIA and the Defense Department over their roles in our foreign intelligence apparatus. The President’s decision to put an active military general in charge of the CIA takes us in the wrong direction and will only further undermine this embattled agency. “In the haste to nominate someone to fill this vital post, the President has put forward a nominee that will only create further controversy.” Representative Eshoo is a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. ###
05.17.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Opposes “Sham” Reform Bill May 17th, 2006 May 3, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted against H.R. 4975, the so-called “Lobbying Reform Act” today, expressing her outrage that the House squandered a real opportunity to enact meaningful ethics reforms in a Congress rampant with corruption. The bill passed the House by a vote of 217 to 213. “The American people are fed up with the scandal and corruption emanating from Washington, D.C.” Eshoo said, “Even with Members of Congress resigning and going to jail, the Republican Leadership in the House seems content with doing as little as possible to address the corruption that is impacting the American people in very real ways.” Noticeably absent from the bill put forward by the House Leadership were provisions to reform the procedural abuses that have silenced debate, prohibited Members from seeing legislation before it is voted on, and allowed leadership to hold votes open in order to manipulate Members into voting for bills. H.R. 4975 also delays a permanent ban on privately-funded travel and gifts to Members from lobbyists until after the November election. “The cost of this corruption and undue influence in Congress is being paid for every day by the American people with skyrocketing prices at the gas pump, spiraling drug costs, and waste, fraud and no-bid contracts in the Gulf Coast and Iraq for Administration cronies like Halliburton,” said Eshoo. Rep. Eshoo is an original cosponsor of H.R. 4682, the Honest Government, Open Leadership Act, which would return a fair and open legislative process to the House of Representatives by providing a minimum time for Members to review legislation prior to a vote and by requiring full and open debate in conference committees. The Democratic proposal also provides increased disclosure by lobbyists and permanently bans travel, gifts, and meals from registered lobbyists to Members of Congress. The Honest Government, Open Leadership Act was offered as an alternative to H.R. 4975 but was defeated by a vote of 213 to 216. ###
05.17.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces Legislation To Protect Civil Liberties May 17th, 2006 April 26, 2006 Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) yesterday introduced an amendment to the Intelligence Authorization Act of 2007 expressing the sense of the Congress that all electronic surveillance of individuals within the United States must comply with the personal freedom protections enshrined in the Bill of Rights, and be conducted according to the established guidelines of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). As a member of the House Intelligence Committee, Congresswoman Eshoo has been a vocal critic of the Bush Administration’s warrantless electronic eavesdropping on American citizens and has called on Congress to play its proper role in addressing the legality of the NSA wiretapping program. Despite the fact that the Eshoo Amendment was limited to expressing a legally non-binding sense of the Congress, the Republican majority on the House Rules Committee ruled it out of order, blocking it from consideration on the floor of the full House. “My amendment created nothing new in terms of regulations or legal framework. It simply restated the rules that have defined our individual freedoms since our nation’s founding,” said Eshoo. “Our government agencies and our elected officials are bound to abide by the Constitution and our nation’s laws, yet this Administration has chosen to circumvent the law and allow, for the first time ever, completely warrantless surveillance of U.S. citizens. My amendment was about upholding the sanctity of the Constitution, and declaring it is the sense of Congress that the law must be upheld. Nonetheless, the Republican Majority on the Rules Committee denied me the opportunity to offer my amendment.” The text of the Eshoo Amendment, as well as Congresswoman Eshoo’s remarks from the floor of the House during consideration of H.R. 5020, the Intelligence Authorization Act of 2007, are available at https://eshoo.house.gov/. ###
05.17.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Speaks About The Intelligence Authorization Act of 2006 May 17th, 2006 April 26, 2006 Rep. Eshoo Speaks About The Intelligence Authorization Act of 2006 [Video] [Rep. Eshoo’s Amendment (PDF)]
05.17.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Pledges to Fight for “Net Neutrality” on the House Floor May 17th, 2006 April 26, 2006 Washington, DC — The House Energy and Commerce Committee today voted 22 to 34 to reject the “Net Neutrality” amendment offered by Representatives Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Ed Markey (D-MA), Rick Boucher (D-VA), and Jay Inslee (D-WA). The amendment to the Communications Opportunity, Promotion and Enhancement Act would ensure equal access to the fastest and most reliable level of broadband for all content providers and would prevent Cable and Bell companies from creating obstacles that keep consumers from accessing the services and content they want. “The Bells and Cable have said publicly that they want to turn the Information Superhighway into their own toll road,” said Eshoo. “Their plan will raise consumer costs, as well as limit access and innovation.” “The growth of the Internet-based economy over the last decade has occrued because of open-access. It has driven the remarkable innovation we’ve seen from companies such as Yahoo!, Google, and others. Today, the Bells and Cable are virtually the only providers of broadband access to consumers. If Congress now allows this duopoly to effectively control what consumers see on the Internet, we will cut off the next generation of Internet trailblazers from consumers and the marketplace. “We’re going to take this fight to the House floor. If consumers want to continue to have open access to the Internet, they need to continue to tell Members of Congress to fix this serious problem when the bill is considered by the full House.” For more information about “Net Neutrality,” including an online petition, see Rep. Eshoo’s website at https://eshoo.house.gov/. ###
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Kavli Building Dedication Speech Added to Congressional Record April 24th, 2006 Kavli Building Dedication Speech Added to Congressional Record By Kelen Tuttle SLAC Today April 14, 2006 Local Congresswoman Anna Eshoo was so taken by Fred Kavli’s speech at the Kavli Building Dedication that she has entered the text into the Congressional Record, where it will be preserved for posterity. “Congresswoman Eshoo took it upon herself to do this,” said SLAC’s Ziba Mahdavi. “We very much appreciate her enthusiasm and this meaningful gesture.” A framed copy of the record will hang on the second floor of the Kavli Building. The building is expected to open to all staff on May 1. SPEECH OF HON. ANNA G. ESHOO OF CALIFORNIA IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES TUESDAY, MARCH 28, 2006 Mr. Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Stanford University and Stanford Linear Accelerator on the dedication of the Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology on March 17, 2006. The institute is dedicated to advancing the understanding of the cosmos in its search for “dark matter” and “dark energy,” which compose an estimated 96 percent of the universe. This was all made possible by Fred Kavli, a world renowned physicist, through his extraordinary generosity and vision. The following are his inspirational remarks at the dedication of the institute which bears his name. It is a special pleasure to be here today for the dedication of this beautiful building in the service of science. First I want to remember and pay tribute to Leland Stanford and his wife, Jane, who laid the physical and spiritual foundation for this great university, and who in their foresight provided the ample land on which this building stands today. We owe our gratitude to the many people who have been instrumental in making the Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Cosmology and the building come about, and give special recognition to President Hennessy, Provost Etchemendy, and the Department of Energy, represented by Robin Staffin. We appreciate the capable work of Roger Blandford, Jonathan Dorfan, and Steven Kahn, who are the prime engines in this effort, and we recognize Steven Chu for his contribution in starting the Institute. We truly have a great building on a wonderful site, and I want to recognize the architectural firm of EHHD for a beautiful and functional design. The building will be an important focal point for the activity of the Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology. It is especially important since the Institute is a joint effort of Stanford and SLAC, and the new building will help to integrate the scientific effort of the two institutions, and will be a common meeting ground for participants from each as well as for visitors from many other institutions. The prominent location is symbolic of the central role it will play in this function. But the building cannot fulfill its function without content, and we are especially thankful to Pierre Schwob who donated the computer center, and Pehong Chen who donated the Chair for the director of the Kavli Institute. The Kavli Foundation supports basic science because we believe in its long-range benefit to humanity. We are looking for benefits which may lie far into the future, benefits that may be hard to predict, but as we look at the past, the benefits of science have been proven over time. The fruits of research are not always immediate and are often not predictable. Often the benefits are the result of unpredictable outcomes of an exploration that was initially motivated purely by intellectual curiosity. Heisenberg, Schrodinger, and Dirac were not motivated by practical applications when they and their colleagues developed the quantum theory of matter, and yet, their research led to, among other results, an understanding of electronic conduction in solid state materials, which led to the invention of the transistor, which made possible the development of integrated circuits, computers, the internet, and the IT world in which we live today. I believe there is a strong relationship between the level of a nation’s science and its technological and industrial leadership in today’s high-tech world. For many years, Bell Laboratories was the strongest and best scientific research institution in the world. The research from Bell Labs was freely publicized throughout the world, but who was to take primary advantage of it to build a high technology industry? It was the home country, the United States of America. It is not just a matter of knowing the theory, it is the foundation that is built step by step by scientists, the engineers, the technicians, the suppliers, the scientific infrastructure, and it is the whole underlying knowledge base that transfers pure science into industrial benefits. I believe that without the Bell Labs, the U.S. would not be the strong world leader we are today in high technology. Similarly, the Silicon Valley would not be among the very top world technological centers without Stanford and SLAC. It is well known and widely accepted that investments in research yield enormous benefits to society through improved standard of living, better health, and stronger national security. I believe that basic science is the primary driver for human progress and increased knowledge about the human being, nature, and the universe. It is for these reasons that we must be willing to make investments with a long horizon, and it is important that our leaders in government duly recognize the importance of our scientific standing in providing a superior standard of living. Sacrifices that we make today will build our future of tomorrow. The benefits of basic science can be hard to predict, but based upon the past, the future will be more spectacular than we can ever imagine. And to the scientists I want to say, I envy you out there looking back to the beginning of time, playing among the galaxies. You guys are really good packing 100 billion galaxies with a hundred billion stars each in the space of a subatomic particle, but when you tell me there are 11 dimensions, I like to remind you of Paul Dirac’s statement that said “physical laws should have mathematical beauty and simplicity.” Today we are grateful to have this beautiful facility with an outstanding team of scientists backed up by two great institutions. I am confident that you will make new discoveries and advance our understanding of the cosmos. Let us dedicate this house of science to take us on a ride among the stars to answer some of our most fundamental questions. Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to a remarkable scientific endeavor, the Kavli Institute for Particle Astrophysics and Cosmology at SLAC, and to extend to its creator, Fred Kavli, our gratitude for his leadership, his vision and his generosity. -Anna Eshoo
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo’s Statement on 2006 Salmon Fisheries Restrictions April 24th, 2006 April 7, 2006 Today, Members of Congress learned that on April 10th, the Justice Department is expected to ask U.S. District Court Judge Saundra Armstrong to reconsider her ruling that stated that the Bureau of Reclamation must limit the amount of water that is diverted away from the Klamath River and its struggling salmon. This came one day after the Pacific Fisheries Management Council voted to limit the 2006 salmon catch to the lowest point ever, due to poor salmon runs on the Klamath. Upon learning of these twin attacks on our local commercial fishermen, Representative Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) issued the following statement. “The Bush Administration has made a mess of managing water supplies on the Klamath River, and our fishing communities, as they have before, are being asked to forego their livelihoods to make up for it,” said Eshoo. “Instead of addressing the problem, the Administration is hell-bent on continuing its mismanagement of the Klamath.” “The Administration needs to make this right. That means compensation for affected commercial and recreational fishers and related businesses, and it means building consensus to craft a long-term solution for responsible management of the Klamath Basin.” Representative Eshoo has consistently pushed for federal disaster assistance for commercial fisherman who will be negatively impacted by the decision by the PFMC and the Administration’s mismanagement of the Klamath River. ###
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Statement of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo on the FY07 Budget Resolution April 24th, 2006 After four hours of debate, the House of Representatives adjourned on April 6, 2006, without taking action on the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution. The annual budget resolution sets the broad outlines for the allocation of federal resources for major priorities (education, defense, transportation, etc.). It is followed later in the year by the consideration of the appropriations bills, which set the funding levels for specific programs. Rep. Eshoo was prepared to vote against the Budget Resolution presented by the Majority Leadership and to support the Democratic Substitute proposed by Rep. John Spratt. A copy of her statement from the April 6th debate follows: Statement of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo on H. Con. Res. 376, the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution April 6, 2006 Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Republican Budget Resolution and in favor of the Substitute offered by Representative Spratt. Despite record-breaking deficits and a skyrocketing national debt, the Budget Resolution before us continues the Majority’s ‘spend now / pay later’ policy which has gotten us into a historic fiscal mess. Former House Republican Leader Dick Armey accurately described the Republican’s fiscal management when he told the Wall Street Journal in 2004, “I’m sitting here, and I’m upset about the deficit, and I’m upset about spending. There’s no way I can pin that on Democrats. Republicans own this town now.” I think it’s important to note that there’s always been a choice. Every year for the last five years, Democrats have offered alternate plans to balance the budget. Every year we’ve been defeated by the Majority. Over that time, the Majority’s budgets have turned a projected ten-year surplus of $5.6 trillion into a projected ten-year deficit of nearly $4 trillion, posting record annual deficits over that period. The single largest cause of this turnaround has been the tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003. The tax cuts, by themselves, represent approximately half of the deficits we’ve accumulated since 2001. What we see again in this year’s Republican budget is more of the same. Passage of their budget will increase the deficit by $348 billion in Fiscal Year 2007 and by a total of $1.1 trillion over the next five years. Although it never achieves a balanced budget, this Republican plan insists on more tax cuts. That’s not the whole story. This budget masks the true cost of the deficit because it continues to spend every cent of the Social Security Trust Fund. Without dipping into the Trust Fund, the Republicans would post a deficit of more than $600 billion in Fiscal Year 2007. The costs of the debt and deficit are huge. In Fiscal Year 2007, the United States will spend $243 billion to cover the interest payments on the national credit card. This represents the fastest-growing part of the budget. The Republican budget also presents the false claim that its spending cuts will reduce the deficit. Over the next five years, the proposal cuts $5 billion from mandatory programs (such as Food Stamps and Unemployment Insurance) and $127 billion in domestic discretionary programs, such as education, veterans benefits, environmental protection, and scientific and health care research, but instead of paying down the debt, these alleged ‘savings’ will partially pay for $228 billion in tax cuts. We’ve seen this bait-and-switch before. Just two short months ago, the President signed into law the so-called Deficit Reduction Act. The $40 billion in cuts in this legislation came from reductions in student aid programs ($12 billion), Medicaid ($7 billion), and Medicare ($6.4 billion). At nearly the same time, the House passed a tax cut bill at a cost of $56 billion. Provisions in this bill will give anyone who earns $1 million or more a year an average tax break of $32,000. The cuts in services will be painful and unwise. Over the next five years, this budget will cut veterans’ healthcare services by $6 billion, education by $45.3 billion, healthcare by $18.1 billion, and environmental protection by $25 billion. Once again, these spending reductions will cover only part of the $228 billion in additional tax cuts, guaranteeing deficits for at least the next decade. The net result of this budget are more tax cuts for the wealthy, a reduction in social services for working families, and never-ending debt for future generations. This fiscal policy is not only unsustainable, it’s immoral. As in past years, we have a choice. The Substitute offered by Mr. Spratt reduces the deficit year-to-year and reaches a balanced budget by 2012. The Substitute re-establishes pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules so that any new tax cuts and any new spending are paid for by spending cuts or revenue increases. The Substitute also proposes $160.5 billion more than the House Republican budget for key areas, including education, health, veterans, and environmental protection while maintaining funding for defense and providing more funding for key homeland security priorities, such as port security. Within the context of a balanced budget, the Substitute provides funding for tax relief for low and middle income taxpayers. I urge my Colleagues to oppose this budget and instead support the Democratic alternative that will restore fiscal responsibility and honor the best of who we are as Americans.
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo Introduces H.R. 5114, the Tax Return Choice Act April 24th, 2006 April 6, 2006 Representative Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) joined today with Rep. Melissa Hart (R-Pennsylvania) and 105 bipartisan cosponsors to introduce H.R. 5114, the Tax Return Choice Act. This legislation will ensure that the IRS cannot implement a “Return Free” tax system, which would make the IRS the tax preparer for all Americans. Under a “Return Free” system the IRS would determine the tax liability of American taxpayers and submit them a bill for payment. Such a system would greatly expand the mission of the IRS and intrude deeply into the lives of the American people. “As an advocate of reducing the complexity of our tax system and making it easier to file tax returns, I don’t think the way to address these problems is to make the IRS the tax preparer for the whole country,” said Rep. Eshoo. “A ‘Return Free’ system has been promoted within the IRS for several years and raises serious issues related to taxpayer rights, privacy, security, and the inherent conflict of interest in having the IRS in charge of preparation, auditing, and enforcement.” The Tax Return Choice Act clarifies that the IRS cannot take on the dual, inherently conflicting roles of tax collector and tax preparer. The legislation also repeals a provision of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 that required the Secretary of the Treasury to develop procedures for implementing a “return-free” tax system. The bill preserves existing efforts to assist taxpayers including the “Free File Alliance,” which was created by the IRS as a public-private partnership and makes free online filing available to more than 70 percent of the nation’s taxpayers, IRS Walk-In Centers, and the IRS Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program. “After seven years of reports from the government and the private sector about how infeasible the ‘Return Free’ system would be, it’s time to drop this idea and develop others to make filing tax returns easier,” said Rep. Eshoo.
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Anna G. Eshoo Applauds Passage of H.R. 3127, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act April 24th, 2006 April 5, 2006 Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (CA-14) voted today to pass H.R. 3127, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act, by a vote of 416 to 3. Rep. Eshoo made the following statement in support of the bill from the floor of the House: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of H.R. 3127, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act, legislation aimed at stopping the ongoing genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan. As a longtime cosponsor of this critical legislation, I’m pleased that this bill has been brought before us today for a vote. With as many as 400,000 killed by the orchestrated violence in Darfur, it’s imperative that the U.S. act quickly and decisively to put an end to the crisis. H.R. 3127 goes after the individuals both inside and outside the Sudanese government who are responsible for the ongoing bloodshed by directing the President to seize the assets of and refuse future visas to any individual (or their family members) responsible for acts of genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity in Sudan. It also forbids any U.S. port from accepting any goods or cargo from Sudanese ships should the Sudanese government continue to fail to take steps to resolve the crisis. Furthermore, in order to give military protection for victims on the ground, H.R. 3127 authorizes the President to provide assistance for an expanded peacekeeping force in Sudan (the African Union Mission in Sudan (AMIS)), and directs the President to seek NATO reinforcement of AMIS, upon the request of the African Union. Last month I voted for and the House passed the Capuano Amendment to the FY2006 Supplemental Appropriations bill for Iraq and Other International Activities, which added $50 million in funding to expand the African Union’s peacekeeping operations in Darfur. This critical funding will help the African Union forces provide humanitarian relief and protection until further assistance arrives from the U.S. and the international community. For the past three years I’ve voted for and cosponsored legislation condemning the atrocities in Darfur and appropriately labeling them ‘genocide.’ Both Houses of Congress have concurred with this assessment, but little has been effective in stopping the killings and displacement. We need to do more, and we need to come up with new methods to target those perpetuating the violence. The provisions within the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act will give us a fresh set of tools to apply to the situation and deliver assistance to those who need it. I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 3127.”
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Statement of Rep. Eshoo on the Communications Opportunity, Promotion and Enhancement Act of 2006 April 24th, 2006 Statement of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo on Markup of H.R. 5252, a Committee Print on the Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Enhancement Act of 2006 House Committee on Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet April 4, 2006 Mr. Chairman, I strongly support your efforts to develop legislation that will create more competition in the broadband marketplace for video services, but I’m very concerned that as this legislation opens the door to Bell competition in IP video, it closes the door to the open, competitive market for the delivery of Internet content and services. It’s important that the legislation recognizes the critical issue of Network Neutrality, but the legislation offers little protection for consumers, Internet companies, and, most importantly, innovation. We need strong, enforceable rules to prohibit discrimination against web content based on where it originates – all like content should be treated equally and I will be offering an amendment to accomplish this. We need to step back and examine this issue about Net Neutrality, which I don’t believe is broadly understood. Since its inception, the Internet has been characterized by its open architecture and freedom from barriers to access to any content, from any provider, anywhere in the world. This structure has enabled the rapid pace of innovation that have made the names of college students like Jerry Yang of Yahoo! and Larry Page and Sergey Brin from Google household words. Most importantly, spectacular new innovations and services to billions of users have evolved. Large network operators – particularly the few remaining Bell companies – have decided that this open architecture can now be manipulated to provide them with a new revenue stream. They can charge consumers for their broadband access AND charge fees to Internet companies for the delivery of content to consumers. The cable industry has invested over $100 billion in their advanced networks without having to extract revenues from tiered services or “premium” Internet content. Why are we creating tiers now? So we have two views of the future of the Internet. The first is that of innovators like Google, Yahoo!, Microsoft, eBay and Amazon, who want to preclude barriers to content and maintain equal access for all providers, regardless of their relationship with the network providers. The other vision is from the industry which has championed policies that have left the United States 16th in the world in broadband penetration. On the one hand we have Vint Cerf – considered by many to be the father of the Internet – telling us that “allowing broadband carriers to control what people see and do online would fundamentally undermine the principles that have made the Internet such a success.” On the other hand we have the view of AT&T’s Chairman Ed Whitacre: “How do you think [Internet companies are] going to get to customers? Through a broadband pipe. Cable companies have them. We have them. Now what they would like to do is use my pipes free, but I ain’t going to let them do that because we have spent this capital and we have to have a return on it.” Has anyone heard a clearer, more concise threat to use market power to extract monopoly rents? I hope my Colleagues will consider these two visions as we vote on these critical issues. One vision espouses the virtues of open access and innovation. The other seems concerned only with leveraging dominant market positions to extract maximum profits. The Bell companies have also argued that their new IP TV services are not actually “cable services” under the Communications Act. If that’s the case – and I don’t believe it is – then why are we even here? What’s the point of this bill? I will be offering an amendment to the definition of “cable services” under the Act and this bill to make clear that yes the bill does apply to IP TV. Related Documents: Rep Eshoo’s letter to Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Rep. Barton and Ranking Member Rep. Dingell urging a more open, broad-based discussion with Members of the Committee on the broadband telecommunications legislation.
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Thanks Governor, Seeks Additional Assistance To Repair East Palo Alto Levees April 24th, 2006 March 30, 2006 PALO ALTO, CA – In a positive response to the urgent request of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto), Governor Schwarzenegger confirmed in a March 29, 2006 letter that he has asked the Department of Water Resources (DWR) to identify additional levee sites that may require expedited repairs to be added to the 24 sites that have already been identified for immediate repair. Eshoo issued an urgent plea to the Governor on March 10, 2006, for state funds and for state personnel to perform emergency repairs to a damaged levee in East Palo Alto. “The state is now prepared to assist local first responders should they be needed. DWR Flood Fight staff will work with the San Mateo County Office of Emergency Services to coordinate and offer assistance in the event of a flood emergency.” “I’m also grateful that East Palo Alto’s request for state funding has been granted. This represents a provision of up to 75 percent reimbursement by the state for necessary permanent repair.” Today, Congresswoman Eshoo sent a follow up letter to Governor Schwarzenegger to thank him and requested additional assistance on behalf of their mutual constituents because of continuing rain and the worsening condition of levees. “Because of the time it will take for the City to digest and negotiate a bureaucratic process, I’m asking you to send staff experts to assist the City right away. Most importantly, I urge you to consider calling in the California National Guard to assist with immediate repair work before it’s too late. I know first hand how exceptional the men and women of the California Guard are and I trust them to get the job done.” Congresswoman Eshoo has also urged San Mateo County Manager John Maltbie to share the County’s expertise and resources with East Palo Alto to begin repair work immediately. Rep. Eshoo continues to work to secure federal funding for the Army Corps of Engineers for a plan that will provide a permanent solution to protect all the communities along San Francisquito Creek.
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Statement on the FY06 Supplemental Appropriations Bill for Iraq and Katrina April 24th, 2006 Statement of Rep. Anna G. Eshoo Regarding the FY2006 Supplemental Appropriations bill for Iraq and Other International Activities; and Additional Hurricane Katrina Relief March 16, 2006 MS. ESHOO: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this bill, the largest emergency appropriations measure to ever be considered by the House of Representatives. I do so with great reluctance because there are several positive aspects to the bill, including resources for our dedicated troops. Despite these reservations, I oppose this bill because the Administration and the Majority in Congress have failed to provide adequate oversight and accountability for our operations in Iraq. Mr. Speaker, in four days we will mark the third anniversary of this tragic war, a war that I opposed from the beginning and which has already cost our country over $400 billion. Without a strategy for success or an end in sight, the Congressional Budget Office predicts the price tag for military costs alone will reach $600 billion by the end of this decade. The added costs of long-term healthcare for our veterans, reconstruction assistance, and economic aid will of course raise this figure exponentially, prompting some of our nation’s best economists to predict that the long-term costs of this war will rise as high as two trillion dollars. Meanwhile, the loss of our best and brightest young people can never be measured. Going into war without the approval and support of the international community and without a plan for the post-war occupation period has resulted in a nation less secure now than at the end of major combat operations. Despite the heroic efforts of our military, and the hundreds of billions of dollars poured into Iraq, it is now on the brink of civil war. We’ve seen how disastrously this Administration’s strategy, or lack thereof, has played out in Iraq, and yet we continue to circumvent the normal budget process, putting hundreds of billions of dollars on the national credit card without any plan for success, any plan to begin the process of bringing our troops home, or any plan to turn Iraq over to the Iraqi people. Mr. Speaker, I voted in favor of our last emergency supplemental bill because, among other things, the bill instructed the Department of Defense to provide a detailed report to Congress of its military expenditures in Iraq and Afghanistan to finally allow us to track how the Administration was spending the taxpayer’s money. Despite this language, the General Accounting Office reported in November numerous problems in DOD’s processes for recording and reporting costs for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a result, the GAO found that neither DOD nor Congress can reliably know how much the war is costing, nor the details on how appropriated funds are being spent. The facts are not being made available and Congress is operating and appropriating without them. The good in this bill is increased funding to address the crisis in Darfur, our fellow Americans affected by the tragedy of Hurricane Katrina and the language preventing the Dubai Ports deal from moving forward. I’ve supported these efforts in the past and were these provisions to be considered properly under normal budget procedures, I would support them. Whether or not Members support the war in Iraq, it’s becoming clearer day by day that the President’s policies are unsustainable. Without a change of direction and a clear plan for success, I cannot in good conscience continue to pass off trillions of dollars to our children and grandchildren to fund this debacle.
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo announces Rep. John Murtha as the recipient of the 2006 John F. Kennedy April 24th, 2006 March 16, 2006 Rep. Eshoo announces Rep. John Murtha as the recipient of the 2006 John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award [Video]
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Rep. Eshoo speaks about the Iraq war on Hardball April 24th, 2006 March 20, 2006 Rep. Eshoo speaks about the Iraq war on Hardball [Video]
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Offers Amendment to Protect State Food Safety Laws April 24th, 2006 March 8, 2006Eshoo Offers Amendment to Protect State Food Safety Laws March 8, 2006 | Video Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following statement on the House floor today in support of her amendment to exempt state and local food safety laws from H.R. 4167, the National Uniformity for Food Act. The amendment would preempt state laws that require proper warnings on foods that contain carcinogins, chemicals that could cause birth defects and food s that could produce allergic reactions. “Mr. Chairman, I thank my colleague for yielding me time. “Mr. Chairman, I am really pleased to cosponsor this amendment. I think it is a very important one, and I think it is important also for people that are listening in across the country who support this amendment. Every leading environmental organization in the country supports this amendment, and consumer groups support this amendment. “I think it is important for people across the country to know who is for the bill, and it will say something about the effort that is here on the floor today. The feed industry is for the bill. The frozen food people are for the bill. The Plastics Council is for the bill. Soft drink people, food processors, food additives. “The food additives people are for the bill. Doesn’t that say something about what is going into our food and lessens the standards in our country for what we consume? That just gives you, excuse the expression, a taste of who is for the bill. “Now, this amendment allows States to retain and establish their own food safety warnings or standards to protect consumers in four key areas. It is against the risk of birth defects, it is against reproductive health problems, cancer and allergic reactions. Those are four major areas that every single person in this country cares about because they are so serious. “Without this amendment, States are going to have to come to the Federal Government and say, mother, may I? “My friends, nothing is broken. Nothing is broken. Were it not for these special interests that have lobbied so hard for this, which is what is wrong with Washington, D.C. today, we would not have to be on the floor fighting to protect what local governments and State governments have, the laws they have placed on the books. “Now, here is an example. Here is an example of what we have in California. This is the warning. This is the warning that is in the grocery stores and the appropriate places for pregnant women and others to warn them: “Pregnant and nursing women, women who may become pregnant, and young children should not eat the following fish,” and it names them. “You know what is going to happen when this thing becomes law? It is going to be buried on a Web site at the FDA. Who the heck is going to go on a Web site at the FDA to read the fine print to find out if they have a warning? That warning is not enforceable. That is why we are offering this amendment in the most key health areas. I would urge my colleagues to support the amendment. “Mr. Chairman, I want to add one more comment to this: Whose constituent has come up to them and said, “Get rid of these good laws in our respective States and local governments?” Not one of my constituents has. “This is a march to folly, and that is why attorneys general across the United States are opposed to it, it is why food and agriculture heads from States are opposed to it. This is not about consumers, this is about special interests.” ## Return to Top
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Gives Keynote Address at NDI/IRI Symposium April 24th, 2006 March 1, 2006Eshoo Gives Keynote Address at NDI/IRI Symposium March 1, 2006 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following keynote address today at National Democratic Institute and International Republican Institute Symposium on “Expanding & Strengthening Democracy: The Role of Technology.” The symposium was held at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “Thank you, Ken, for your kind introduction and for your important leadership of NDI. “It’s a pleasure to be here this morning to help kick off this important event to examine the role of technology in expanding and strengthening democracy, both here in the United States and around the world. “As Ken mentioned, I have the privilege of representing California’s 14th Congressional District, which encompasses much of Silicon Valley. So it probably won’t surprise you to hear that I’m a firm believer in the power of technology and in the transformative role it can play in promoting freedom and democracy. “America is not only a political and economic superpower, but it is a technology superpower, and the issues you’re examining today will continue to grow in significance as the United States promotes democratic principles in our foreign affairs. “Because of the prominent role that information technology occupies in today’s society, its role in virtually all aspects of the economy, politics, and entertainment is incontrovertible and largely taken for granted. “But throughout our history, technology and innovation have always been catalysts for revolutionary changes in society and government, empowering the individual to question authority and challenge the status quo. “In the 15th century Johann Gutenberg invented the printing press, which allowed mass production of the printed word. The printing press helped destroy the feudal system by bringing knowledge to the masses, and brought on the Renaissance and some of the world’s greatest art and discoveries. “These same forces led to the Age of Enlightenment which swept through Western Europe and to America in the 18th Century. “In America, this new emphasis on reason and individual freedom found its most eloquent expression in the printed works of Thomas Paine, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson, which convinced the American colonists to take up arms in revolution. “It is precisely this empowerment of the individual – so cherished by our Founding Fathers – that technology has enabled. “What the printing press made possible in centuries past, the Internet has amplified exponentially. “If Thomas Paine were alive today, he wouldn’t be a ‘radical pamphleteer’ – he’d be a blogger at www.CommonSense.com. “The Internet has already had a tremendous impact on the American political system. “During the last presidential election, political parties, candidates, and independent groups utilized the Internet to organize and raise money in new and innovative ways. “Direct communications with grassroots voters have also been revolutionized by groups such as MoveOn.org. “I was actually somewhat of a pioneer in using technology for voter outreach. During my first run for Congress in the late 1980s, I was one of the first candidates to distribute videotape presentations to voters as part of my campaign. “The Internet has also completely changed the manner in which political campaigns and politics in general are covered in the mainstream media. The impact of blogs and independent websites on traditional news organizations is perhaps the most important phenomenon we observed during the 2004 election. “Bloggers on the left and right have begun to serve both as ‘fact checkers’ for news organizations as well as actual sources of news and information. “Some impacts of the Internet – I believe – are detrimental to the political process. Much of the information spread on the Net is not well-researched or held to traditional journalistic standards, but it’s not always considered in this light. “As a result, rumor and innuendo are often given much more credence and visibility than in traditional media forms. The ‘Swift Boating’ of Senator Kerry is partly attributable to these forces. “I’m also confident that as the ‘Internet political community’ matures and the public becomes more familiar with the Net as an alternative news medium, the American people will become more adept at evaluating the trustworthiness of a particular source of information. “I’m also hopeful that professional journalists and mainstream media outlets will learn to temper their role in amplifying information that hasn’t been properly sourced or verified. “It seems as though these news organization are often desperate to keep up with the lightning pace of information dissemination on the web, and frequently get caught up in a haste to get ‘news’ out before it’s properly verified. “Again, I think with greater experience journalists will develop a better perspective of their roles versus the roles of bloggers and independent websites. “While technology has the capacity for empowering the individual and enhancing the forces of freedom, it also creates new opportunities for governments and other powerful institutions to invade individual privacy and actually suppress liberty and freedom. “We’re having this very debate in our own country over the President’s secret wiretapping program operated by the National Security Agency. Many Americans, including myself, are very concerned that the NSA is monitoring the communications of American citizens without court supervision or congressional authorization. “According to reports in the press, the NSA has demanded access to the ‘call detail records’ of major telecommunications companies, which they’ve analyzed with advanced data-mining tools which go beyond looking for key words or flagging persons of interest, but also uncovering hidden relationships among data points. “According to FBI sources cited in these reports, most of the tips from the NSA program led to dead ends or to innocent American citizens. “This should concern all Americans. “All of us agree that our government must take every reasonable step to protect our security and prevent acts of terrorism, but the discovery of this secret program, wielding powerful new technology to target – in many cases – innocent Americans, without legal authorization by the Congress, is shocking and deeply disturbing. “Even if we assume the Bush Administration is using this information only to target terrorist and terrorist sympathizers, and immediately discards any information unrelated to terrorist investigations, the potential for abuse is obvious and real. “It certainly wouldn’t take long for a political dissident in China to make this connection. “The impact of technology on China has been a fascinating development. 110 million Chinese are now on the Internet and this number is growing by 18% each year. “The Chinese government has struggled mightily to contain access to information and news, and impede electronic communications among political activists and human rights groups. “Many American technology companies have become entangled in this very sensitive situation, and some of them have been blamed for assisting the Chinese government in its efforts to suppress dissent and crackdown on dissidents. “These are extremely difficult waters to navigate, but I think that clearly errors in judgment and failures of moral leadership are evident. It’s incumbent on the industry to develop more extensive codes of conduct for dealings with autocratic governments such as China, and I think this process is underway. “But on the whole, the spread of the Internet and related technologies to China will continue to have a sweeping impact on China. “Nearly any parent with a clever teenager can understand how futile the Chinese government’s efforts to censor information will ultimately be, and from our own history we know the power of the ideas of individual freedom and democracy. “Because of government censorship efforts, searches of ‘Tiananmen Square’ and ‘Falun Gong’ on Google-China may not prove fruitful. But searches of ‘Thomas Paine,’ ‘Thomas Jefferson,’ and ‘Ben Franklin’ will continue to unearth ‘radical’ ideas about the power of the individual and the unalienable rights of all human beings. “And the mere existence of Chinese censorship of the Internet will ultimately prove self-defeating. “To quote Ralph Waldo Emerson, ‘Every burned book enlightens the world.’ I think he would say the same thing about blocking websites today. “In closing I’d like to discuss another very powerful dynamic that technology will have in promoting democracy in our own society and institutions, and ultimately the world. “Just over a year ago, some of the world’s greatest institutions of higher learning, including the University of Michigan, Stanford, Harvard, the New York Public Library, and Oxford, announced that they were partnering with Google to digitize their collections and put them on the Internet. “Imagine — nearly the entirety of humankind’s repository of knowledge, accessible to anyone with access to an Internet connection. “I’m particularly proud of this endeavor because two of the major participants — Stanford University and Google — are located in my Congressional District. “No longer will an individual be limited by geography, wealth, or disability to have access to the world’s greatest literature, science, and philosophy. “A child living in Anacostia can go to her public library and access Sir Isaac Newton’s original manuscripts from Oxford. “A boy in Guangzhou can peruse commentaries on the Federalist Papers by constitutional scholars at Harvard. “Computer scientists in Africa can read the latest doctoral dissertations by Ph.D. candidates at Stanford. “And all of the greatest works of literature in the public domain whose copyrights have expired, will be freely available to anyone. “The digitization of these works will also ensure that they are preserved forever, for future generations. “This project follows in the spirit of President Jefferson who resurrected the Library of Congress after it was destroyed by British troops in the War of 1812. He did this by selling the government (at a tremendous discount) his vast, personal collection of books. “Jefferson understood the importance of books, the need to preserve knowledge and make it available to the masses. “Jefferson said, ‘Were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter. But I should mean that every man should receive those papers and be capable of reading them.’ “Jefferson identified the essence of the democratizing effect of technology — ‘that every man should receive those papers and be capable of reading them.’ “He recognized that access to information was in fact more important than government in securing freedom and democracy.” “And through technology in the 21st Century, we are making more information available to more human beings throughout the world than previous generations would have ever thought possible. “I look forward to working with you and my colleagues in Congress to making the promise of technology a reality. “Thank you again for having me here today, and enjoy the rest of your conference.” ## Return to Top
04.24.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes National Uniformity for Food Act April 24th, 2006 March 2, 2006Eshoo Opposes National Uniformity for Food Act March 2, 2006 | Video Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, delivered the following statement on the House floor in opposition to H.R. 4176, the National Uniformity for Food Act. “Madam Chairman, I thank the gentleman from California (Mr. Waxman), my distinguished colleague, for not only his eloquence on this bill but all the work that he has done on public health issues and health in general for the people of our country. “I rise to oppose this bill, and I do because I believe it is an assault on public health and consumer protection. It is no wonder there has never been a hearing on this bill in the last 8 years. “So this is not about theater. This is not, as the gentleman who introduced the bill said a few moments ago, about theater and deception. This is a very, very serious debate, and it is a debate that should have been taking place in a public hearing, in a hearing of our committee; and it has not. I think that that in and of itself is an assault on the American people. It is disrespectful. “The bill will preempt any State or local food safety law that is not identical to a Federal law, and we do not have those Federal laws. So it will absolutely leave a void. Is the Majority saying here that they are set to put into place, if this bill passes, God forbid, that they are going to place on the Federal books, 200 Federal laws in a nanosecond? I do not think so. “Under this bill, the FDA will have to approve any food safety law that is at variance with Federal policy, and according to the CBO, the bill will preempt an estimated 200 State and local laws dealing with food safety. Absolutely preempt them right away, 200 State and local laws. “It is going to cost the FDA $100 million over the next 5 years to process petitions from States seeking to retain these laws. There is simply no credible public health justification for the extraordinary steps that this bill takes. “The attorney general of California has weighed in against the bill. I insert this memorandum to the California delegation as part of the RECORD at this point. “The State Departments of Agriculture, as well as State and food safety officials from all 50 States oppose the bill because they believe it hampers their ability to protect the public from hazards in the food supply, even potential bioterrorist attacks, an issue that really should be debated and discussed and would have been if we had ever had a hearing. “These State and local officials are responsible for conducting 80 percent of the food safety inspections in the country, and yet today we are diminishing their ability to carry out their important role. “The National Association of State Departments of Agriculture representing every State in the Union has come out against the bill. “The Association of Food and Drug Officials wrote that ‘The bill will preempt States and local food safety and defense programs from performing their functions to protect citizens.’ “Equally disturbing, the bill will scale back State laws designed to protect pregnant women and children from potential hazards in foods. Why would we ever take such a step? “For all of these reasons and many more, I rise in opposition to the bill. It is bad public policy and it should be rejected by the House.” ## Read the California Attorney General’s memo here. Return to Top
01.26.2006	+ SHARE Eshoo Seeks Hearings on President’s Secret Order on Domestic Surveillance January 26th, 2006 January 26, 2006Eshoo Seeks Hearings on President’s Secret Order on Domestic Surveillance January 26, 2006 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto and a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, issued the following statement regarding President Bush’s secret order authorizing domestic surveillance without judicial supervision or Congressional authorization. “On December 15, 2005, the New York Times reported that President Bush signed a secret order in 2002, allowing the National Security Agency (NSA) to conduct unauthorized surveillance on American citizens without a warrant. Following the New York Times report, the President acknowledged the existence of this program. He claimed he had unilateral authority under his constitutional role as Commander-in-Chief, and that the Congressional resolution authorizing military action in Afghanistan allowed him to engage in domestic surveillance. “In 1978, Congress established a special federal court under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) in order to process and approve requests for electronic surveillance and to provide a balance between our national security needs and the civil liberties guaranteed to all Americans. In exigent circumstances, the Act allows the government to conduct searches and surveillance before a warrant is issued, followed by pursuing the FISA Court’s approval. Over 130,000 requests have been approved throughout the history of the Court, and only four requests have been denied during this period of time. “These are extraordinary tools which every President since Jimmy Carter has had at their disposal, and they’re balanced by explicit Congressional approval and judicial review. If the President believed the law was inadequate to protect the country, he was obligated to ask the Congress to amend the law. He never did. Instead, he appears to have ignored the law and, by doing so, usurped the role of Congress and the Courts by simply authorizing the program himself. This action by the President eliminates the essential checks and balances the Founding Fathers put in place to limit the power of each branch of government. Congress has an oversight responsibility to investigate and as a Member of the House Intelligence Committee I’ve called for the Chairman of the Committee to begin oversight hearings immediately. “As a Member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I was never informed about these actions. Based on what’s been reported, I believe they are unconstitutional and illegal. In fact, legal experts at the non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) have concluded that the President did not have legal authority to initiate this program. (It’s important to note that outside legal experts have offered their opinions based on what the President and members of his Administration have said in reaction to the New York Times article.) There’s still a great deal we don’t know and the only way to secure the full knowledge of the operation is for Congress to hold hearings and have the Administration testify under oath. “Every President deserves to have the best intelligence possible to protect our country. It’s also essential that our precious civil liberties are protected and that they don’t become casualties of terrorism.” Related Documents: Congressional Research Service report, “Presidential Authority to Conduct Warrantless Electronic Surveillance to Gather Foreign Intelligence Information? Legal analysis, written by 14 former and current attorneys, law professors, and government legal counselors and experts Legal analysis, written by Jeffrey H. Smith, former General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency and a former General Counsel of the Senate Armed Services Committee # # #
12.09.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Supports Redeployment of U.S. Forces from Iraq December 9th, 2005 December 9, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following statement on the House floor in support of H.J. Res. 73, a resolution calling for the redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Joint Resolution introduced by Representative John Murtha. This Resolution should be brought to the floor because the time has come for a change in our Iraq policy. “I believe our military has done its job. They were sent to Iraq to depose a tyrant and free the Iraqi people from Saddam Hussein’s brutal regime. They accomplished what can be described as one of the most successful and well-executed military campaigns in history, defeating the Iraqi army in a matter of days and going on to hunt down and capture Saddam Hussein. “The issue before us is not ‘surrender’ or ‘cut and run’. Our troops have accomplished their mission. What they’re now having to battle is an insurgency comprised largely of Iraqis who they were sent to liberate. According to our top military leadership, fewer than 7% of the insurgents in Iraq are foreign militants and the primary target of the insurgents are U.S. troops. “The violence is taking its toll on the Iraqi people, the vast majority of whom want a stable, secure Iraq free from foreign occupation. A recent poll taken in Iraq indicated that 80% of Iraqis want the American military to leave, and most chilling, 45% believe attacks against U.S. forces are justified. The daily toll inflicted on our military and our national purse (close to $1 billion per day now), is simply unsustainable. “Congressman Murtha has proposed a plan calling for the redeployment of U.S. troops consistent with the safety of U.S. forces, the creation of a quick-reaction force in the region and an ‘over-the-horizon’ presence of Marines, and the pursuit of security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy. “Congressman Murtha based his sober and professional judgment on the following: “The U.S. and coalition troops have accomplished all they can in Iraq and the American people have not been shown clear, measurable progress for the establishment of a stable and improving security in Iraq or of a stable and improving economy. “American troops have become the primary targets of attacks in Iraq, which is significantly impeding progress. Continued military action is not in the best interest of the United States, the Iraqi people, or the Persian Gulf region. “As Commander of Iraqi forces, General George Casey stated in a September 2005 hearing, ‘the perception of occupation in Iraq is a major driving force behind the insurgency.’ “The cost of the War to our country, and the burden on the troops to whom Congressman Murtha has dedicated his life, is skyrocketing. “Congressman Murtha knows of what he speaks. He is a 37-year veteran of the Marine Corps, a Colonel, the first Vietnam War veteran elected to this body and an unimpeachable, first-hand authority on the needs of our military. “Congressman Murtha is one of the most decorated veterans in the Congress. No one has taken care of our troops on a more consistent basis since coming to the Congress than Jack Murtha. Previous Presidents know this, this President knows it, present and former members of Congress know it, and most importantly, our troops know it. “Congressman Murtha has been standing side-by-side with our troops throughout the Iraq war, from his presence in Kuwait just days before the start of the war, to his ongoing weekly visits to wounded troops at Bethesda Naval Medical Center and Walter Reed Army Medical Center, to his regular travel to the region to be with our troops. Each and every step of the way Jack Murtha has made sure that our troops have what they need, that their families are cared for, and that our country honors their service as deeply as he does. In one case, when a mother told him that bureaucratic red tape would prevent her son, a young man severely wounded in service to his country from receiving a Purple Heart, Jack Murtha said that if her son didn’t get a Purple Heart, he would give him one of his. This is Jack Murtha. “After great personal reflection on the war and its effects and constant consultation with the military leadership, Congressman Murtha has done what members of this body are charged to do: He spoke truth to power. He announced it was “time for a change in direction” in Iraq. He did not call for an immediate withdrawal. He has not called for surrender and he has not called for retreat. “Whether Members agree with Congressman Murtha’s judgment on the individual details of his proposal, it’s become clear that our current policy in Iraq is unsustainable. It’s time to tell the Iraqis that the training wheels have to come off¦it’s time for the Iraqis to take charge of Iraq. Today the American people are ahead of us, with some 65% saying it’s time for a change. It’s time to begin the overdue debate on how and when we bring our troops home. Congressman Murtha has set forth a pragmatic and clear proposal. I’m proud to support it.” ### Return to Top
11.18.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes Budget Reconciliation Act November 18th, 2005 November 18, 2005Eshoo Opposes Budget Reconciliation Act November 18, 2005WASHINGTON, DC — The House Republican Majority yesterday forced $50 billion in budget cuts through the House of Representatives, passing the Reconciliation Spending Cuts Act by only two votes. Rep. Anna Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted against the legislation. “Republicans have slashed critical funding for child support enforcement, student loans, healthcare for children, nursing home care for seniors, and food stamps. This has been done in the name of funding hurricane recovery and deficit reduction, but it is neither. What drives this legislation are tax cuts.” said Eshoo. “The tax cuts deliver almost 80% of their benefits to the top 3% of the population. And, to add insult to injury, they’re not even fully paid for. Instead, they pile more debt on the mountain of national debt.” The bill includes the following cuts: $11.4 billion from Medicaid. $14.3 billion from student loan programs. $4.9 billion from child support enforcement. $796 million from food stamps. $577 billion from foster care assistance. The National Council of Churches USA carefully dissected this budget, and wrote the following to every Member of Congress: “The role of government is to protect its people and work for the common good. This is not the time for a budget reconciliation process. To do so is not only unjust, it’s a sin. It violates all the fundamental Christian principles of loving thy neighbor, caring for the poor and showing mercy. As religious leaders this is a violation that is unacceptable to us. How is it that we show mercy for oil millionaires and not hurricane survivors? We urge you to change this destructive course of action for the sake of our nation and for generations to come.” The bill passed with a vote of 217 to 215. Rep. Eshoo voted against it. ##
11.10.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Secures Funding for Vital District Projects November 10th, 2005 November 10, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo announced today the funding of several important community and regional projects across the 14th Congressional District through the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act and the Science, State, Justice and Commerce Appropriations Act, which were passed by the House of Representatives on November 9th. The funding will spur research, education, and innovation, as well as safeguard homes and property, reduce crime, and repair important infrastructure at local ports and harbors. The following are the projects and the funding: Research and Education $2 million for the Bio-Info-Nano Research and Development Institute at NASA Ames Research Center to be operated in conjunction with University of California at Santa Cruz. This new collaborative initiative for research, development, and instruction will take advantage of the resources and expertise housed at NASA, UC Santa Cruz and the entire UC system, as well as the other Bay Area private sector and academic institutions. Fighting Crime and Reducing Recidivism $200,000 for the San Mateo County Youth Services Center’s Girls Ranch. The funding will support gender specific programs to help juvenile female offenders get their lives back on track. $100,000 is provided for Santa Clara County’s Providing Assistance with Linkage to Services (PALS) program, an initiative to help mentally-ill offenders make a successful transition into society following their release from detention. $600,000 for improvements at the San Mateo County Forensics Lab. Investing in Local Infrastructure $4.47 million for dredging at the Port of Redwood City plus $100,000 to study the appropriate depth of the Port’s navigation channel. $450,000 for breakwater repairs at Pillar Point Harbor. Protecting Homes and Restoring the Environment $225,000 for an Army Corps of Engineers study to address flood control and restoration efforts within the San Francisquito watershed. $1.5 million for the Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary Visitors’ Center in Santa Cruz. This is a key part of integrating the Sanctuary into the broader community and will offer education opportunities to those visiting the Coast. $600,000 for studies related to the restoration of the South San Francisco Bay wetlands within the Don Edwards National Wildlife Refuge. Congresswoman Eshoo cautioned that the funding could be trimmed by across-the-board budget cuts, but she noted that most of the funding provided in these bills will remain intact. # # #
11.03.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Fights for Investigation About Abuses Related to War in Iraq November 3rd, 2005 November 3, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) and House Democrats today challenged the Majority Leadership to carry out the House’s constitutional duty of oversight and investigate failures of pre-war intelligence. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi offered a Privileged Resolution calling on Republican Leadership to conduct a thorough investigation, but the resolution failed by a party line vote, 220 to 191, when Republicans unanimously moved to table the resolution. Eshoo, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, has repeatedly called for investigations at the Intelligence Committee as well as during full meetings of the House. The Committee has never opened a full inquiry into pre-war intelligence efforts and the allegations that intelligence was manipulated to support the Administration’s call for war. “The American people have a right to know the truth about the intelligence that led us to war in Iraq, and Congress has the duty to investigate on their behalf,” said Eshoo. “We’ve now lost over 2,000 American lives in Iraq and witnessed abuses of power in the highest levels of the government — perhaps, even criminality. Congress has failed in its role of oversight.” Democratic appeals to conduct investigations into the various abuses have twice been rejected along party lines in the Intelligence Committee. Democrats have sought investigation on everything from the lack of weapons of mass destruction and pre-war intelligence, to prisoner abuse at military prisons, to the intentional leak of a covert CIA operative’s identity, to the strategy for troop withdrawal. To read the full text of Leader Pelosi’s Privileged Resolution, please visit http://democraticleader.house.gov/. # # #
10.28.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Preserves Coverage for Breast and Cervical Cancer Treatment Under Medcaid October 28th, 2005 October 28, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — The House Energy and Commerce Committee yesterday unanimously adopted an amendment offered by Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) to preserve coverage for breast and cervical cancer treatment under Medicaid. Funding for this treatment program was threatened by a Republican bill that cuts over $10 billion from Medicaid. “I’m relieved for the millions of underinsured and uninsured women across the country who will continue to have coverage for the treatment of breast and cervical cancer,” said Eshoo. “This amendment saved the coverage from the chopping block. I only wish we could have stopped the other cuts to Medicaid, which is our nation’s healthcare safety net.” In 2000, Rep. Eshoo introduced the Breast Cancer and Cervical Treatment Act, which allows states to use Medicaid dollars to provide health treatment coverage for low-income women diagnosed with breast or cervical cancer. Before enactment of this law, Medicaid only provided coverage for the diagnosis but not treatment of these deadly cancers. The law enjoyed overwhelming bipartisan support, and to date, all 50 states and the District of Columbia have used it to offer treatment for women who do not have private insurance coverage. The amendment ensures that states will continue to have the federal government as a partner for providing this critical care. # # #
10.27.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement Opposing Medicare Budget Cuts October 27th, 2005 October 27, 2005Eshoo Statement Opposing Medicare Budget Cuts October 27, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted today for an amendment by Rep. Edward J. Markey, D-Mass., to eliminate the Medicare budget cuts and made the following statement during a meeting of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. “This debate on Mr. Markey’s amendment I think is a classic debate. The reason the members of this committee on this side of the aisle support this amendment is very, very basic. It is because the cuts that are being made are cutting into the most vulnerable people in our country. And the reason they are being made is not to reform anything. If you look up the word reform in the dictionary, it does not say cut. It means to change for the better. It means to reshape. The basic premise, the basic principle and it is why it is in reconciliation is you need something to cover the holes in the budget for the tax cuts. That is what this debate is about. You should take that debate and run with it. Be up front about it. That is what you are doing. That is why we do not support it. That is why we do not support it. “And when we talk about cuts, it is more than programs, Mr. Chairman, who is my friend. This cuts into the moral fiber of our country. This cuts into our national character. This cuts into the best of who we are. The framers did not have a vision of where we would pursue and hunt down the most vulnerable in our society. That is not who we are. This is not anything to be proud of. “As a Catholic when we talk about reconciliation in the church, it is about a bringing together. It is in a spiritual sense about healing. This is not reconciliation in the best of what that word represents. “Now you can talk all you want about the governors. Governors are always, they always have and always will come to Congress and say we do not have enough money for the program that we share with you. I think it twists the absolute intent of any governor, Republican or Democrat, that they came here and said protect the tax cuts at the altar of our country. “I mean, come on, I may be elected but I am not a fool. This is a dark moment for our country and I am an optimist because I see day in and day out the decency of the American people. We have seen the character of the American people in the most hard-hit areas of our country. And what is this distinguished committee doing? In the name of Katrina, we are going to worship at the altar of tax cuts and say guess what, we are saving you. We are doing something for you, Mr. and Mrs. America. Where is the faith that people talk about in this institution? Whatever happened to the beatitudes? That is how deep this goes. It is not a theory. It is not just a formula. We have to live it out. We did not come here, none of our constituents sent us here to hurt people and that is what this debate is about. It is so basic. It really cuts to the bone marrow of who and what we are. “You are darn right we support, I support Mr. Markey’s amendment. This thing should be wiped right off the bench today. You want to go to reforms? We will work with you on real reforms but we are not going to worship tax cuts and see them implemented and hurt people and then call that a reform. That is not what this is. In the names of all of our ancestors that helped build this country, not one member on this committee should be supporting this thing. This is a bad thing. This is a bad thing and we should hearken back to our conscience on this, our national character, the decency of our people should be matched by the decency of Members of Congress. “So you are darn tooting we support Mr. Markey because it is in act of conscience. That is what the amendment should be called. Not one of us is going to stand for this. It is wrong. It is wrong. It is wrong. It is wrong.” ###
10.07.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo: Protect Public Lands from Oil Refineries October 7th, 2005 October 7, 2005 Republican leaders today blocked Rep. Anna G. Eshoo’s (D-Palo Alto) amendment to the Gasoline for America’s Security (GAS) Act. The amendment would have protected sensitive public lands from refinery development, but the amendment was blocked by the House Rules Committee. The GAS Act would allow the President to designate federal lands suitable for construction of refineries, and allow greater access to these lands with limited judicial review or public input. He could designate environmentally sensitive areas such as wildlife refuges, national forests, and national conservation areas. “This bill is premised on the fiction that our energy production is limited by the environmental regulation placed on oil refineries, which is clearly not the case,” said Eshoo. “But whether we need new refineries or not, we should not allow the President to be able to provide access to some of our most treasured federal lands to the oil and gas industry.” The Eshoo Amendment would protect national forests, the national trails system, national conservation areas, wilderness study areas and other public lands from development for oil refineries. Perhaps most prominently, Eshoo’s amendment would have protected the 74 million acres within the National Wildlife Refuge System. According to a recent report released by the Department of the Interior, refuges not only attracted 37 million visitors in 2004 for recreational purposes, they also created 24,000 jobs and produced $454 million in employment income during 2004 as well. “I can’t imagine why a president would want to clear the path for building a new refinery in Chincoteague, Virginia or in Arkansas’ Cache River Refuge where the long-lost Ivory-billed woodpecker has been rediscovered. And why would Congress want to give him the chance,” said Eshoo. The bill also failed to adequately address price gouging and manipulation by oil companies. Eshoo voted for alternative legislation which would have made price gouging punishable by fines of up to $3 million and market manipulation punishable by fines of up to $1 million. “I think we’re seeing a replay of the California energy ‘crisis,'” said Eshoo. “Now, like then, we have an industry that has reduced its own capacity to drive up prices. It’s claiming that environmental regulations are the cause and consumers are paying the price.” # # #
07.26.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Opposes Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement July 26th, 2005 July 26, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 3045, the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA). “Tonight I reluctantly voted against the Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA). I have not come to this decision easily. I’m a strong supporter of free trade, and I have voted for every free trade agreement that has come before the House of Representatives since I was first elected. I believe the American people benefit when we reach out to the billions of consumers around the world who want to purchase our goods and benefit from our creativity and ideas. “CAFTA could have been a trade pact that would pass the House and Senate with broad bipartisan support, however, the Administration chose to ignore bipartisan concerns of Congress as negotiations were conducted. In earlier agreements with Australia, Jordan, and Morocco the Administration collaborated with Members of Congress from both parties and passage of these treaties was secured with large bipartisan majorities. With CAFTA, the Administration chose to go it alone and ignore advice from Congress, the body our Constitution gives the responsibility to govern foreign commerce. “While the impact of CAFTA on American exporters, workers, or consumers is likely to be very limited, with more than 80% of imports from Central America already entering the U.S. duty free, and the six CAFTA countries representing only 1.5% of U.S. foreign trade, it is in the negotiated language of the Agreement that something large and unsettling looms. “While American jobs and the jobs of my constituents are always of great concern to me, I believe the most significant impact of this agreement is likely to be in the Central American and Dominican workplace. These are developing countries that need meaningful safeguards in the workplace so that exploitation and abuse by exporters with an eye on the lucrative American market will not be the order of the day. “In the 21st Century, we can do much better, in fact we must. Fragile democracies, home to grinding poverty, require the best ideas to build a middle class. The mark of a thriving democracy is a thriving middle class. “This Agreement reflects the past rather than the future. To build a middle class, equal emphasis should be placed on the full protection of intellectual property as well as the workplace. CAFTA fails this standard. “As I cast this vote, I will disappoint some and gladden others. The interests of our great nation and those that aspire to be great could have been advanced, but in my estimation, they are not. It is a missed opportunity for a strong bipartisan agreement that would export our products as well as the democratic values which have built a nation that is the envy of the world.” ##
07.21.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Seeks Constructive Debate on PATRIOT Act July 21st, 2005 July 21, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) offered an amendment today to the so-called library provision of H.R. 3199, the USA PATRIOT and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005, but the Republican majority refused to allow consideration of the amendment on the House floor. “This is an outrageous use of procedural baloney to silence reasonable opposition,” said Eshoo. “There’s bipartisan support for this amendment in the House and the majority knows it — that’s the only reason this amendment isn’t being considered.” The amendment, sponsored by Eshoo and Rep. Bernard Sanders (I-Vermont), would have eliminated the so-called library provision of the U.S. PATRIOT Act. As the provision currently stands, the FBI is allowed to obtain library circulation records, patron lists, bookstore records, and customer lists without a warrant or grand jury subpoena. Just a little over one month ago, an amendment was offered to H.R. 2862, the Science, State, Justice & Commerce Appropriations Act for FY 2006, to deny funding for these exact provisions in the PATRIOT Act. The amendment passed the full House on an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 238 to 187. Following this, Eshoo offered a corresponding amendment to the PATRIOT Act during a meeting of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) on July 14th but the Committee rejected it. “Section 215 is highly controversial precisely because it threatens our civil liberties,” said Eshoo. “The American people recognize that this represents an abuse of power and now their Representatives are not being allowed to speak for them.” Congresswoman Eshoo has served in the House of Representatives since 1993. She has been a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence since 2002. # # #
07.20.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges Support of Iraqi Religious Diversity July 20th, 2005 July 20, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today offered an amendment to H.R. 2601, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, to protect indigenous Christians in Iraq from continuing religious persecution and political exclusion. The amendment unanimously passed the House by a voice vote. “Iraqi Christians welcome the opportunity to move beyond the days of repression and persecution,” said Eshoo. “They wish nothing more than to be able to fully cooperate and participate in the development of a democratic, pluralistic state, and the commitment provided by this amendment gives them great promise.” Eshoo’s amendment urges the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government to pay special attention to the welfare of ChaldoAssyrians, “an ancient population that predates current Iraqi inhabitants,” and other Iraqi Christians, including Chaldeans, Jacobites, Armenians, Assyrians, and Greek Orthodox Christians, who have been the subject of great harassment and intimidation even after the fall of Saddam Hussein. The amendment also calls on the President and his administration to work with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to dedicate funding for the promotion of welfare and education, as well as the resettlement for these minority groups in Iraq. These groups receive a disproportionately small share of the reconstruction and developmental resources available, which in turn has spurred the emigration of as many of 80,000 Iraqi Christians since liberation. Despite the huge number of Iraqi Christians who have fled the region, there are approximately 1 to 1.5 million Christians remaining in Iraq. They primarily reside in the Nineveh Plain in the north near Mosul, in villages that can trace their history back over 2,000 years. “ChaldoAssyrians and other native Iraqi Christians are not only being ostracized and repressed, they are also being kept from their homes,” Eshoo said. “Protecting the rights of minority groups and ensuring that all individuals in Iraq — regardless of religious affiliation or ethnic background — are given the tools they need to succeed, is critical to establishing a fully-functioning and sustainable democracy.” Read Rep. Eshoo’s complete floor statement. Congresswoman Eshoo has served in the House of Representatives since 1993. She is currently the only Assyrian-American member of Congress. ##
07.20.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on Iraqi Christians July 20th, 2005 July 20, 2005 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo made the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives in support of her amendment to H.R. 2601, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for FY2006 and 2007. “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to offer an amendment expressing the Sense of the Congress that our government should recognize the unique challenges facing Iraq’s indigenous Christian communities, including the Chaldeans, Jacobites, Armenians, Assyrians, and Greek Orthodox Christians. “I’m a first generation American, of Assyrian and Armenian descent. My grandparents fled their ancestral homeland in the early part of the 20th Century. In fact, my mother received her first communion in Baghdad in 1919. “I’m the only Assyrian-American serving in Congress today, and only the second to serve here in our nation’s history. The first was Congressman Adam Benjamin of Indiana, who passed away at a young age in 1982. “There are approximately 250,000 Assyrian-Americans in the United States, representing the largest population of Chaldo-Assyrians outside Iraq. All Chaldo-Assyrians are Christian, and because they are, they’ve been subjected to brutal persecution in their homeland. “Today, there are 1 to 1.5 million Christians remaining in Iraq, mainly in the Nineveh plain in the North around Mosul. They live in villages that can trace their history back over 2,000 years, a large number of which, because of their geography, have now come under the authority of the Kurdistan Regional Government. “Among indigenous Iraqi Christians, the Chaldeans represent the oldest rite under Rome. Along with Assyrians who worship within the Holy Apostolic Catholic Assyrian Church of the East, they represent the oldest surviving Christian population in the world and one that without help during this critical transition period, could be on the brink of extinction. “These communities have welcomed the opportunity before them since the fall of Saddam Hussein’s regime to move toward greater prosperity and stability by cooperating in the development of a democratic, pluralistic state. “Unfortunately, religious and ethnic tensions, as well as discrimination continue to plague these Christian communities. I continue to receive troubling reports from religious leaders indicating that Iraq’s Christian population is not receiving their fair share of development assistance. “Because they are such a small minority, the indigenous Iraqi Christian population has one independently elected ChaldoAssyrian in the entire Iraqi National Assembly, Younadam Kanna, a man whom I’ve met with and hold in high regard. Within the Kurdistan Regional Government in Northern Iraq, representatives from Iraqi Christian communities hold only 5 out of 105 seats. “Because the Assyrian community is a very small minority in Iraq with one representative in national politics, funding for reconstruction, housing and education are parceled out to those who control the villages and regions where they reside, without sufficient transparency to ensure the proper parity. “The visible result of these misallocations has been the emigration of as many as 80,000 Iraqi Christians since the fall of Saddam Hussein’s regime alone. The majority of these individuals, approximately 50,000, have fled to Syria, while others have spread out to Jordan, the Gulf Emirates, and Turkey, all living in desperate circumstances as refugees from their homes. This ongoing exodus is deeply disturbing, and unless action is taken now to address the pressing needs of these indigenous Christians, we may well witness the complete loss of the Iraqi indigenous Christian community. “If a fully-functioning and sustainable democracy is to emerge in Iraq, the basic rights and needs of all minority groups must be safeguarded. “My amendment seeks to affirm that commitment by ensuring that all relevant U.S. government agencies and departments pay special attention to the needs of this minority and ensure that they will continue to reside and thrive in their ancestral homeland. “Many of my Colleagues are aware of the targeting of Iraqi Churches by the insurgents which was reported on the front page of the New York Times last August as another attempt to divide the Iraqi people and further drive Iraq’s Christian population from their homes. I’m grateful to our military who are trying to provide security for these communities under attack. “I also want to bring to my Colleagues’ attention another report published in yesterday’s San Francisco Chronicle. The headline is “Iraqi Christians find safety in Syria, Religious violence prompted many to flee homeland,” and I ask unanimous consent that this report be entered into the record. Dated just yesterday, it details this pressing problem in tragic detail, and is a clear indicator that this is a problem that requires our fullest attention. “I urge my colleagues to support my amendment and I reserve the balance of my time.” ##
07.14.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Fights to Protect Civil Liberties in U.S. PATRIOT Act July 14th, 2005 July 14, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — In a meeting today of the full House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) introduced an amendment to the so-called library provision of the US PATRIOT Act (Section 215). Because some provisions of the Act will sunset on December 31, 2005, legislation is required to reauthorize the Act. Rep. Eshoo’s amendment would have prohibited the FBI from obtaining library circulation records, patron lists, bookstore records, and customer lists without a warrant or grand jury subpoena. The provision of the US PATRIOT Act that currently permits such activities has been one of the most controversial and highly protested across the country. Despite strong opposition, the Committee rejected the amendment. “The library provision as it currently exists is dangerously broad,” said Eshoo. “It permits the government to obtain anything tangible as long it’s sought under the guise of a terrorism investigation, and without the check of a judge. This clearly leaves too much room for abuse and it threatens our civil liberties.” Last month, a measure was introduced in the House by Rep. Bernard Sanders (D-VT) to deny funding for these exact provisions in the PATRIOT Act. The amendment passed the full House overwhelmingly, 238 to 187. Though the legislation to reauthorize the PATRIOT Act will go to the full House for a vote with the library provision included, Members may have the opportunity to vote to overturn this provision. Eshoo and other House Intelligence Democrats are also hopeful that this provision will be defeated in the Senate’s corresponding legislation and then in the Conference Committee. “This fight isn’t over yet,” declared Eshoo. “Americans cherish their freedoms too much to let such intrusive policy go unchecked. I will continue to do everything I can to protect our civil liberties and protect our national security. Both can exist side by side.” Congresswoman Eshoo has served in the House of Representatives since 1993. She has been a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence since 2002. # # #
06.30.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces ‘Kevin’s Law’ June 30th, 2005 June 30, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Atlo, made the following statement today in introducing H.R. 3160, the Meat and Poultry Pathogen Reduction and Enforcement Act, also known as “Kevin’s Law.” “Mr. Speaker, I’m proud to join my colleague Representative Phil English in introducing important bipartisan legislation, `Kevin’s Law’: the Meat and Poultry Pathogen Reduction and Enforcement Act. This bipartisan bill will strengthen the ability of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to set and enforce food safety and sanitation standards for meat and poultry. “Kevin’s Law is named in memory of 2 1/2 -year-old Kevin Kowalcyk, who died so tragically in 2001 after eating a hamburger contaminated with E. coli O157:H7. Kevin’s untimely death was agonizing and brutal. No child, no person should experience the pain that Kevin did, and no family should have to bear witness to a loved one suffering in the way that Kevin did. “Sadly, Americans are far too vulnerable to fatal foodborne illnesses, especially children and the elderly. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that foodborne diseases cause roughly 76 million illnesses, 325,000 hospitalizations, and 5,000 deaths each year. The tragedy is that many of these illnesses can be prevented with better science standards and enforcement. Congress must do much more to ensure the safety of our nation’s food supply. “In 2003, the National Academy of Sciences report Scientific Criteria to Ensure Safe Food recommended that Congress give regulatory agencies ‘the clear authority to establish and enforce compliance with science-based food safety criteria, including performance standards.’ This legislation is just what the doctor ordered. Kevin’s Law addresses these recommendations and will help ensure that the government has the authority it needs to prevent contaminated meat and poultry from entering our food supply by: “Requiring the USDA to identify the pathogens that threaten human health (e.g. Salmonella, E. coli 0157:H7, Listeria monocytogenes). “Requiring the USDA to establish performance standards to reduce the presence of these pathogens in meat and poultry. “Confirming that the USDA has the authority to enforce its own standards by shutting down plants that continually breach basic health standards–authority that some processors have repeatedly challenged in court. “Passage of Kevin’s Law would put into place major recommendations of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Advisory Committee for Microbiological Criteria for Foods, both of which have consistently supported greater federal enforcement of food safety standards. “Mr. Speaker, I thank the current 22 co-sponsors of Kevin’s Law for their support of this bill, and I encourage all my colleagues to join me in helping to protect millions of other Americans from fatal foodborne illnesses by passing this legislation. “Finally, I thank Kevin’s family for sharing their tragic story with the world, and especially Kevin’s mother, Barbara Kowalcyk, and his grandmother, Pat Buck, for their continued important advocacy on behalf of increased safety standards for meat and poultry.” ##
06.23.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Restoration of Funds for Public Broadcasting June 23rd, 2005 June 23, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Today Rep. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) voted to pass the Obey-Leach-Lowey Amendment to restore federal funding for public broadcasting in the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education FY 2006 Appropriations Act. “This is a great victory!” exclaimed Eshoo. “The loyal listeners and viewers of public broadcasting in my district, along with supporters across the country, made their voices heard. The House overturned efforts by the Republican leadership to undermine one of our most cherished institutions, public broadcasting.” The amendment, which passed 284-140, reverses a decision made last week by the Republican-controlled Appropriations Committee to cut $100 million from next year’s federal funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). This amendment has great local significance as it restores almost $4 million to the stations serving the Eshoo’s 14th congressional district. “This was a victory for quality, commercial-free, cultural and educational programming, public discourse and debate, as well as an independent, free press. Today was great day in Congress.” # # #
06.16.2005	+ SHARE Democrats Demand Plan for Success in Iraq June 16th, 2005 June 16, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-Palo Alto) today supported an amendment offered by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco) that would have required President Bush to submit to Congress a plan for success in Iraq and a withdrawal timetable. The Strategy for Success amendment was offered to amend to H.R. 2863, the Defense Appropriations Act FY 2006, and was defeated by a vote of 223 to 200. “The American people deserve to know the President’s plans for our troops,” said Eshoo. “The Administration’s post-war planning was non-existent and the President has yet to inform Congress of a withdrawal timetable.” The Strategy for Success amendment would have required the President to submit his detailed plan to Congress within 30 days. As required by the amendment, the requested plan would have included the criteria for assessing the capabilities of Iraqi security forces and milestones for achieving readiness; the estimated number of trained Iraqi personnel at the level determined appropriate; the number of U.S. and coalition advisors needed to support Iraqi security forces and associated ministries; and, the measures of political stability for Iraq, including all significant political milestones to be achieved. America is paying heavily for this war. More than 1,700 American soldiers have been killed, more than 12,000 have been wounded, nearly $200 billion of U.S. taxpayers’ dollars have been spent, and the nation’s reputation has been greatly damaged in the eyes of the world. “The American people recognize the heavy price we’re paying for this war and are questioning the strategy,” said Eshoo. # # #
06.15.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Fights for Freedom to Read June 15th, 2005 June 15, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) today stood with 198 other Democrats, 38 Republicans, and one Independent to support the Freedom to Read amendment to the proposed H.R. 2862, Science, State, Justice & Commerce Appropriations Act for FY 2006. This amendment, which passed 238 to 187, will overturn one of the most controversial provisions of the PATRIOT Act, which currently allows the FBI to gain access to personal library circulation and sales records. “This is a victory for civil liberties,” proclaimed Rep. Eshoo. The Freedom to Read amendment will stop funding for certain activities authorized by Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, such as FBI access to library circulation records, patron lists, bookstore sales records, and customer book lists without a court order. Rep. Eshoo further stressed that the amendment’s purpose is to protect civil liberties, not diminish the rule of law; “This amendment does not prevent law enforcement from using various means of access that were available prior to the PATRIOT Act. Search warrants and grand jury subpoenas are still available for legitimate law enforcement purposes and ensure due process.” # # #
06.07.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Leads Effort to Protect Americans from UV Rays June 7th, 2005 June 7, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) today addressed the rising rates of Americans who are not properly prepared for another summer in the sun. H. Res. 169, a resolution to promote sun safety and establish an official Sun Safety Week (June 5 – 11), unanimously passed the House of Representatives today. “Skin cancer is highly preventable and I urge all Americans to practice good sun safety,” stated Rep. Eshoo. “Using proper skin protection and avoiding excess sun exposure are easy and effective ways to reduce the risk of cancer. Protection from harmful UV rays should not be blithely ignored.” A recent national survey, conducted by the non-profit Sun Safety Alliance (http://www.sunsafetyalliance.org/), shows a 12-point decline over the past year in the percentage of Americans who report using sunscreen when outdoors, from 72 percent to 60 percent. And while the number of people who have practiced sun safety has decreased, the number of skin cancer diagnoses has increased; it’s estimated that there will be 1.3 million skin cancer cases in the U.S. this year, which exceeds the number of breast, lung, prostate and colon cancers combined. Most importantly, Rep. Eshoo stressed the importance of sun safety for children and young adults. “School-based sun safety education programs are a great first step toward making sure our children are prepared. Fifty percent of lifetime exposure to UV light occurs during childhood and adolescence, and it can take less than 10 minutes for a child’s skin to burn. Practicing sun-safe behaviors during childhood is best way to reduce the chance of skin cancer later in life.” # # #
06.02.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Disappointed by EPA Decision — Emphasizes failure of EPA decision to protect environment and June 2nd, 2005 June 2, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) expressed great disappointment following the EPA’s announcement today to deny California’s request to waive the oxygenate mandate for gasoline. This waiver, sought by the state of California and Governor Schwarzenegger, and supported by more than 50 members of the California congressional delegation, was rejected today. “The EPA’s ill-advised decision will continue to increase the price Californians pay at the pump,” remarked Rep. Eshoo. “Additionally, the sustained mandate will limit California’s ability to effectively and efficiently reduce air pollution.” The oxygenate mandate was originally implemented in the Clean Air Act of 1990 to reduce air pollution. However, pollution in the ground water prompted California to ban the use of the oxygenate MTBE (methyl tertiary butyl ether), making the oxygenate rule tantamount to an ethanol mandate. California has the most stringent gasoline and air quality standards in the nation, but the ethanol mandate has actually hampered efforts to improve air quality. The waiver request was originally filed by California over six years ago and, following the EPA’s initial rejection in June of 2001, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals sent the request back to the EPA for further consideration in October of 2003. In April of 2005, Representative Eshoo led 49 other members of Congress in sending a letter to the EPA urging the agency to make this request a top priority. “As consumers, as citizens, we deserve better. The EPA fails to acknowledge evidence that its current standard is detrimental to the very goals the Agency claims to advance. Governor Schwarzenegger should take immediate action in the courts to overturn this decision. We must continue this fight on behalf of the environment and California’s citizens.” # # #
05.24.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Votes for Stem Cell Research Expansion May 24th, 2005 May 24, 2005Eshoo Votes for Stem Cell Research Expansion May 24, 2005 WASHINGTON, DC — Undeterred by President Bush’s threat to veto H.R. 810, Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2005, Representative Anna Eshoo (CA-14) joined 237 House colleagues today in voting for this legislation, which will expand federally-funded stem cell research and will greatly enhance the United State’s capability of curing many of the most devastating chronic illnesses. “The public, researchers and industry are looking to Congress for leadership,” stated Eshoo. “Stem cell research should not be about politics. It should be about science, medicine and hope.” Representative Eshoo further stressed that by failing to embrace stem cell research the federal government will only delay medical breakthroughs and stunt biotechnological innovation in the United States. “This research will happen, regardless if this bill is signed into law — we just won’t have the control we need to make sure the research is conducted effectively, efficiently, and ethically. The research will happen outside the U.S., and we will yield our country’s position as a leader in the advancement of new technology. More importantly, by failing to fund this research we deny hope to millions of Americans suffering from chronic and life-threatening illnesses.” With passage of H.R. 810, the bill moves on to the Senate where a majority is thought to favor passage. Should President Bush follow through with his veto threat, a 2/3 majority in both Houses of Congress will be required to override. # # #
05.13.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Announces 129th to Remain at Moffett Field; Region to Gain New U.S. Army Reserve Regional Read May 13th, 2005 May 13, 2005 Following today’s release of the 2005 Department of Defense Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) Report, Rep. Anna Eshoo commended the Pentagon for its recommendation to retain the 129th Rescue Wing at Moffett Federal Airfield, and to activate a new U.S. Army Reserve Southwest Regional Readiness Command headquarters at Moffett. “I’m very pleased the Department of Defense has fully recognized the strategic and regional importance of having the 129th Rescue Wing at Moffett Field. By recommending the 129th remain headquartered at Moffett, and creating a new consolidated Army Reserve headquarters on the Airfield, the Pentagon has strengthened our regional and national homeland security and defense capability,” said Eshoo. Moffett Federal Airfield in Santa Clara County is home to NASA Ames Research Center, a leading international science center, which has long been the home of one of the nation’s premier units, the California Air National Guard’s 129th Rescue Wing. The members of the 129th conduct combat and search and rescue operations on a worldwide basis. Over the years Congresswoman Eshoo has been a strong advocate for an expanded and enhanced role for Moffett Field in regional threat assessment and disaster preparedness. In 2003 she led the Bay Area Congressional Delegation in writing to the Secretary of the Air Force urging him to establish a state-of-the-art facility at Moffett Federal Airfield to command, coordinate, and control local threats as they unfold, as occurred during the Loma Prieta Earthquake of October 1989. “Having the new Army Reserve Southwest Regional Readiness Command headquarters at Moffett will complement the critical mission of the 129th Rescue Wing based there and dramatically improve our region’s ability to prepare for and mitigate threats to our safety and security. I’m looking forward to personally welcoming the men and women of the Army Reserve to their new home at Moffett Field.” Also included in the BRAC list was a recommendation to close Onizuka Air Station and relocate its highly-classified space operations mission to Vandenberg Air Force Base in California’s central coast. A separate entity from Moffett Federal Airfield, Onizuka had originally been slated for closure within the 1995 BRAC process and had been phasing out its mission over the last several years. # # #
04.21.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Statement on H.R. 6, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 April 21st, 2005 April 21, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, voted against H.R. 6, the Energy and Policy Act of 2005, and issued the following statement. Included with this statement is a letter to Governor Schwarzenegger about the bill’s impact on California. The letter was sent by Rep. Eshoo earlier this week. She was joined in the letter by Reps. Grace Napolitano (D-Norwalk), Henry Waxman (D-Los Angeles), George Miller (D-Martinez), Lois Capps (D-Santa Barbara) and Hilda Solis (D-El Monte). “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this bill. “Each year, Californians send approximately $50 billion more to the federal government than they receive in federal funding. With this bill, Californians are being asked to sacrifice even more while getting nothing in return. “According to the Department of Energy, the bill will raise gasoline prices by 8 cents a gallon. “The bill’s MTBE liability waiver will let refiners off the hook for cleaning up drinking water that’s been contaminated by their product. Local governments will have to pay the entire cost. “The bill will undermine the ability of states to ensure that liquefied natural gas terminals are sited and operate safely. “The bill will undermine states’ appeals rights under the Coastal Zone Management Act. “The bill paves the way for building energy facilities on the outer continental shelf, including areas subject to oil and gas drilling moratoria. “The bill will undo a California appliance efficiency standard for ceiling fans, which is part of California’s effort to reduce demand and prevent future blackouts. “In listening to state leaders about this bill, I can’t find anyone, from the Governor down, who says ‘this is wonderful and it should be supported and passed.’ “Instead, I’ve heard many concerns … from the Lieutenant Governor, members of the governor’s cabinet, the Attorney General, the Coastal Commission, the Public Utilities Commission, local governments, and water utilities. “I have many concerns, as well. Along with some of my California Colleagues, I’ve sent a letter to the Governor of California outlining them. I ask unanimous consent that my letter be made part of the record as well as letters from the California Coastal Commission, the CPUC, the California Ocean Protection Council, and the Lieutenant Governor of California. “Mr. Speaker, my constituents will pay billions of dollars because of this bill without commensurate benefits. “So, I ask my colleagues, particularly my California colleagues to join me in voting against this bill.” ##
03.18.2005	+ SHARE Pelosi, Eshoo Lead Congressional Delegation to the Middle East March 18th, 2005 March 18, 2005 House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi will lead a Congressional Delegation to the Middle East. The group will travel to Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, and Lebanon from March 18 to March 25. Pelosi will be joined by Representatives Anna Eshoo, Darrell Issa (R-Vista), George Miller (D-Martinez), Henry Waxman (D-Los Angeles), Edward Markey (D-Massachusetts), James McGovern (D-Massachusetts), and Linda Sanchez (D-Garden Grove). “The delegation will meet with regional leaders to assess efforts to promote political and economic reform, the Middle East peace process, and the situation in Iraq,” Pelosi said. “We are especially looking forward to meeting American servicemen and women in Iraq.” “It’s an honor to be part of the Democratic Leader’s bipartisan delegation and travel to the Middle East during a time of historic opportunity,” said Rep. Eshoo. # # #
03.17.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Receives Perfect Score in National Breast Cancer Coalition’s Voting Record March 17th, 2005 March 17, 2005 The National Breast Cancer Coalition (NBCC) today announced that Representative Anna Eshoo received a perfect score in its 108th Congressional Voting Record. NBCC’s Voting Record measures support among Members of Congress for the Coalition’s legislative priorities. Representative Eshoo received a check mark in each of the categories that NBCC deemed a high priority. NBCC’s Voting Record outlines all of the Coalition’s legislative priorities and how each Member of Congress acted on them. These actions include votes, co-sponsorships and signing onto Dear Colleague letters in support of legislation. “Congresswoman Eshoo has been a longstanding, active champion of the goals of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. Her unwavering support through the years has been critical on some of NBCC’s most important legislative priorities. She has helped NBCC lead the fight for substantive legislation including federal funding for research through the Department of Defense, and for research on possible environmental causes of breast cancer. Without her leadership, there would be no system of health care for thousands of uninsured women with breast and cervical cancer,” said Fran Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition. The National Breast Cancer Coalition is a grassroots organization dedicated to ending breast cancer through the power of action and advocacy. The Coalition’s main goals are to increase federal funding for breast cancer research; improve access to high-quality health care and breast cancer clinical trials for all women; and expand the influence of breast cancer advocates in all aspects of the breast cancer decision-making process. # # #
03.17.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Floor Statement Opposing Fiscal 2006 Medicaid Cuts March 17th, 2005 March 17, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Atlo, made the following statement on the House floor in opposition to the Medicaid cuts included in H.Con.Res 85 establishing the federal budget for Fiscal 2006. “Mr. Speaker, the proposed reductions in Medicaid under this Budget Resolution plan are unacceptable. For 40 years Medicaid has always been a crucial support system for low-income individuals. Medicaid has made health care available to millions of Americans who have no other access to health care. “The Budget Resolution will require $14 – $20 billion in cuts from the program over the next five years and it will almost certainly lead to changes to state funding rules, administrative payment cuts, and prescription drug payment changes. This comes at a time when poverty is up, wages are down, and the number of uninsured Americans is at a record high in our nation’s history. “The Medicaid program serves nearly 50 million Americans. As people lost jobs and income during the recent economic downturn, Medicaid enrollment increased by nearly one-third. The decreasing number of those who receive health care benefits through employment adds additional burdens to the Medicaid system. States and local governments rely on federal assistance to help provide a safety-net to these individuals. Any cuts to the Medicaid program will shift the burden entirely onto state and local governments that are already straining to meet increasing demands on the program and severe budget pressures of their own. In many states, Medicaid costs exceed education costs. “In California, our Medicaid program, Medi-Cal, matches every dollar of federal funding with a dollar in state funding. This shared commitment is critical since the state receives $20 billion in federal funding. Reducing federal Medicaid funding to states at a time of rising health care costs, increased numbers of uninsured, and states’ increasing difficulties in paying their share of Medicaid costs, is bound to force states to reduce coverage and increase the numbers of uninsured. Uninsured patients without access to care will instead seek treatment in emergency rooms, further burdening an already overtaxed system. “The Medicaid program is not only critical for low-income individuals, but it’s also fundamental to the operation of California’s safety-net hospitals. The President’s budget calls for eliminating the use of intergovernmental transfers for hospital funding. This means there will be at least $11.9 billion in direct cuts to safety-net providers nationwide. Many states rely on IGTs to fund their Medicaid budgets. The low-income and uninsured rely on these hospitals to receive access to needed health care services. Without the continuation of federal Medicaid funds targeted to safety net hospitals, millions of Californians will not have access to necessary health care services. This budget resolution advances this march to folly for so many Americans and that’s why 242 national groups and 785 state groups, including the National Governors Association and the National Association of Counties oppose changes in Medicaid. “We have an obligation to care for the less fortunate, and the Congress should not be cutting critical health care and other services from those in need. Rather, we should maintain our partnership with the states to ensure that Medicaid benefits remain available for the most vulnerable in our society. “I urge all my colleagues in the House to oppose the Budget Resolution.” ##
03.15.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Fights President’s Proposal to Cut Community Development Block Grant Program March 15th, 2005 March 15, 2005 Congresswoman Anna Eshoo vowed today to fight the Bush Administration’s proposed consolidation and cuts to the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program. As a first step in her opposition, Eshoo wrote to President Bush, to Administration officials, and to the House of Representatives Budget Committee urging them to protect the vital CDBG program’s funding and to oppose any proposal to consolidate the program. “The CDBG program is a crucial funding source for establishing and maintaining safe affordable housing and revitalizing communities throughout the 14th Congressional District,” Eshoo said. “Cutting a program this successful is counterproductive and will hurt our communities.” Under the President’s proposal, the CDBG program would be consolidated with 17 other housing and community development initiatives into a single program. The jurisdiction of the consolidated program would be moved to the Commerce Department from the Department of Housing and Urban Development where it is now. This new consolidated program would also be subjected to 35 percent less funding than the 18 programs received combined last year. In the Budget Resolution adopted by the House Budget Committee last week, funding for community development programs, including CDBG, was cut by $1.5 billion. Eshoo also took issue with comments made by Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development David Sampson who singled out Palo Alto as receiving more CDBG funds than it deserved. “Mr. Sampson’s comments demonstrate a lack of understanding for how this program benefits communities with real income disparities,” Eshoo said. In the 14th Congressional District, the CDBG program provides essential funding for communities to assist the poor, seniors and homeless. The City of Palo Alto has used the funds for the construction of the Opportunity Center and to help provide basic services and case management to approximately 150 homeless and/or low-income individuals on a daily basis. In Mountain View, CDBG funds have been used for the construction of San Antonio Place, a studio apartment complex under construction which will rent to low-income individuals. # # #
03.14.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Passage of Bill to Overturn IRS Decision to Tax FEMA Mitigation Grants March 14th, 2005 March 14, 2005 Congresswoman Anna Eshoo today announced the House passage of H.R. 1134, a bill to exempt federal FEMA mitigation grants from income taxes. The bill must now pass the Senate and be signed by the President to ensure that residents of Felton Grove, La Honda and other recipients of FEMA mitigation moneys will not have to pay taxes on the grants. “I’m very pleased that the House of Representatives was able to work quickly and in a bipartisan way to overturn this terrible decision by the IRS which subjects FEMA grants to taxes” Eshoo said. “I’ll work with my colleagues in the Senate and President Bush to ensure that this bill becomes law as quickly as possible so that local residents get the relief they need.” Last year the IRS determined that all recipients of FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, the Flood Mitigation Assistance Program, and the Pre-Disaster Mitigation Program had to include as gross income the amount they received for mitigation. In an effort to convince the IRS to overturn its administrative decision or grant a waiver until a legislative solution could be reached, Eshoo wrote to IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson on January 27, 2005 and met with him in Washington, D.C on March 3, 2005. Despite her best efforts, the Commissioner refused to overturn the decision. To remedy this situation, Rep. Eshoo introduced H.R. 1134, which passed the House unanimously and will now move on to the Senate. Eshoo has written to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee urging their prompt consideration. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act quickly on this issue to ensure that the IRS is not allowed to tax these important grants. These grants save money and resources in the long run by encouraging people in disaster-prone areas to take preventative measures. Taxing these grants runs counter to common sense and to the financial well being of our country,” said Eshoo. Eshoo went on to thank local officials for their help in opposing the decision and informing the public, especially Santa Cruz County Supervisor Mark Stone for his outstanding efforts on behalf of his constituents. # # #
03.14.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act of 2005 March 14th, 2005 March 14, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, issued the following statement on the introduction of H.R. 1227, the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act of 2005. “I’m very pleased to join Representatives Biggert, Slaughter and Ney in introducing the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act of 2005. This bill will prevent abuses of genetic information for workforce and insurance decisions. Advances in genetic science are already saving lives and will save many more in the years ahead, but these advances should not be the basis for denying Americans their jobs or their health insurance. “One of the most significant scientific accomplishments in history has been sequencing the human genetic code. As a result of this achievement, scientists have identified genetic markers for a variety of chronic health conditions, increasing the potential for early treatment and prevention. “Unfortunately, the ability to predict disease through genetic testing and family history opens the door for discrimination, particularly the employment and the health insurance industry Such a threat has deterred the public and scientists from taking full advantage of the important opportunities that genetic information provides. Without appropriate protections to encourage providers, the health care community and the public to embrace genetic testing, the health care arena will be incapable of taking full advantage of the important opportunities resulting from the advancement of genetic information and technology. “The Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act of 2005 prohibits health insurers in both group and individual markets from: “Using genetic information to impose enrollment restrictions or to adjust premium or contribution amounts; “Requesting genetic testing or results except as necessary for treatment, payment, or health care operations; and “Requesting or requiring the use of genetic information for the purposes of underwriting. “With regards to employment, the Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act of 2005 grants enforcement powers to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and: “Makes it an unlawful employment practice for an employer, employment agency, labor organization, or training program to discriminate against an individual or deprive an individual of employment opportunities because of genetic information; “Prohibits the collection of genetic information except where necessary to monitor the effects of toxic substances in the workplace, when authorized by the employee, or as required by law; “Safeguards the confidentiality of genetic information in the employment setting. “The Genetic Information Non-Discrimination Act of 2005 brings public policy up-to-date with science and ensures that every American can benefit from our scientific progress without the worry of genetic discrimination. “I urge all my colleagues in the House to support this legislation.” ##
03.09.2005	+ SHARE Announcement of Critical Transportation Funding for 14th Congressional District Communities March 9th, 2005 March 10, 2005 Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo announced several important community and regional projects which are included in the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users, legislation which passed the House today by a vote of 417 to 9. “I’m very pleased that the House has funded these critical projects,” Eshoo said. “They are important investments in our communities and region, and I’ll continue to fight to see that they are fully implemented.” The funding in the House-passed Transportation Equity Act includes: The Gateways to Ravenswood Project (City of East Palo Alto) $6,000,000 will go toward the redevelopment of the Ravenswood Business District, which is the first major commercial development in East Palo Alto in decades and will be the economic base for the City for years to come. Oregon-Page Mill Expressway Improvements (County of Santa Clara) $4,000,000 will go toward improving the Oregon-Page Mill Expressway by adding more turn lanes, traffic signal upgrades, intersection modifications, and bicycle and pedestrian paths. These improvements will greatly alleviate traffic congestion and reduce environmentally-dangerous tailpipe emissions while providing greater access and increased safety for pedestrians and bicyclists in the area. U.S. 101 Bicycle and Pedestrian Bridge (City of Belmont) $2,450,000 will go toward building a bicycle and pedestrian bridge over Highway 101 from Hiller Street to the San Francisco Bay Trail in Belmont. This bridge will further our region’s bicycle system network, establishing a connection between the San Francisco Bay Trail and the Skyline Trail, and providing the only safe pedestrian and bicycle crossing of Highway 101 between State Route 92 and State Route 84. Auxiliary Lanes on U.S. 101 between Marsh Road and the Santa Clara County Line (San Mateo County) $2,250,000 will go toward the construction of auxiliary lanes on Highway 101 from Marsh Road to the Santa Clara County line, which will help relieve congestion and increase safety by allowing traffic to merge more easily onto the busy freeway. The Intelligent Transportation System (City of Palo Alto) $500,000 will go toward a citywide traffic signal upgrade in Palo Alto, helping to reduce delays and congestion by allowing traffic signals to make real-time adjustments to actual traffic demands on local streets. Environmental Review of Improvements Related to the Connection of the Dumbarton Bridge to Highway 101 (San Mateo County) $500,000 will go toward the environmental review of plans to relieve the severe traffic congestion and improve the unconventional roadway connection in East Palo Alto between the Dumbarton Bridge and Highway 101. The Adaptive Traffic Coordination System on Willow Road (City of Menlo Park) $300,000 will go toward reducing traffic congestion between Willow Road, Middlefield Road, and Hamilton Avenue in Menlo Park by making traffic signals more responsive to traffic demands. # # #
02.27.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Reports Progress on Overturning IRS Decision to Tax FEMA Mitigation Grants February 27th, 2005 February 28, 2005 Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo announced today that she has scheduled a meeting with IRS Commissioner Mark W. Everson to discuss the IRS’s decision to tax FEMA’s Mitigation Grants and reports that House leadership has shown interest in bringing legislation that would overturn the decision to the House floor for a vote. Eshoo expressed optimism that this legislation could be considered by the House quickly. “Members on both sides of the aisle have been very receptive to this issue and are working with the House Ways and Means Committee to come up with a solution which will guarantee that citizens will not have to pay taxes on these grants” explained Eshoo. Eshoo will meet with Commissioner Everson to get to the bottom of why the decision was made, urge him to reverse the decision, and ask him to provide a waiver for those filing their 2004 taxes. “I look forward to meeting with Commissioner Everson to find out why this decision was made and what we need to do to reverse it, immediately” said Eshoo. A companion bill to House legislation has also been introduced in the Senate. The bill mirrors efforts being made in the House to reverse the decision of the IRS. Congresswoman Eshoo has pledged to work with her colleagues in the Senate to ensure that this legislative solution becomes law. # # #
02.17.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Introduces the Broad-Based Stock Option Plan Transparency Act February 17th, 2005 February 17, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following remarks on the introduction of H.R. 813, the Broad-Based Stock Option Plan Transparency Act. “I’m very pleased to be the lead Democratic sponsor of the Broad-Based Stock Option Plan Transparency Act of 2005, and I look forward to working with my congressional partner Rep. David Dreier to move this proposal forward. “As many of my Colleagues are aware, I’ve long been concerned about the impact of proposed accounting rules on broad-based stock options plans and the employees that benefit from this important employee ownership tool. For a number of years the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has threatened to require stock options to be deducted from a company’s earnings. In fact the first bill I introduced as a Member of Congress in 1993 addressed this important issue. “Last Congress, I was the lead Democratic sponsor of similar legislation sponsored by Rep. Richard Baker, and cosponsored by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Majority Whip Roy Blunt, and over 130 bipartisan cosponsors. The legislation passed the House by an overwhelming margin of 312-111, but the bill wasn’t taken up in the Senate, and in December, FASB finalized its mandatory stock options expensing standard. Without this legislation, FASB’s rule will take effect in June and companies will be forced to deduct the estimated cost of all employee stock options from their reported earnings. “FASB’s mandatory expensing rule would have a terrible impact on companies that rely on options to recruit and retain the most talented employees. Without stock options many of these companies, including some of the most successful high-tech and biotech firms, would not even exist today. As American companies struggle to stay ahead of our global competitors, it makes no sense to handicap them with these onerous new requirements. Stock options have become associated with corporate scandals and excessive executive compensation, leading to a call for expensing as the ultimate prescription for these problems. But stock options were not the cause of the corporate accounting scandals, and eliminating stock options would do nothing to instill corporate responsibility or accountability. Stock options are already fully disclosed in corporate earnings statements, and the crimes committed at Enron, Tyco, and other companies would not have been prevented if expensing had been the accounting rule of the day. “If, however, companies are forced to expense stock options, most will drop or severely limit employee option plans because of the prospect of taking a huge and misleading charge against their bottom line in accounting statements. And if mandatory expensing is implemented, most stock options plans will likely be taken away from rank-and-file employees and reserved exclusively for top executives. This is already occurring in anticipation of the new FASB rule “It’s ironic that many are calling for the expensing of stock options in order to reign in executive compensation, when expensing stock options would do little to accomplish this. Stock option plans or other forms of lucrative compensation for senior executives will undoubtedly continue to be offered. Rather rank-and-file employees would be the ones to lose, because they don’t get to negotiate with a Board of Directors for their compensation package. Consider this: Only a small portion of employee-held options — about 15% — are held by corporate management. 14.6 million American workers (13 percent of private-sector workers nationwide) held stock options in 2002. “Some have also argued that FASB’s independence must be protected and accounting standards, like other technical rules, should not be set by Congress. While in general this is the case, there are many occasions when expert bodies fail to fully protect the public interest and it’s essential that Congress steps in. “For example, the Securities and Exchange Commission, an independent, expert agency, failed to adequately protect investors and the public from the corporate scandals of recent years: Congress stepped in to enact the reforms of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. “In this case, FASB has concluded this important rulemaking process without the transparency, deliberation, or justification that Congress and the American public should demand. At the outset of its consideration of the expensing rule, the Board Chairman and other Members announced their positions before a single comment from the public was solicited, proceeded to discourage comments on key questions, and disregarded the overwhelming majority of comments it received. The Board refused to conduct “road tests? of actual valuation models or of the real costs associated with implementing any new standard. They’ve also refused to respond to recommended alternatives and compromises. “It’s not reasonable to dismiss Congress’s responsibility in these matters and ignore the serious shortcomings of FASB’s rulemaking on a matter with such important and far-reaching consequences for our economy and our global competitiveness. “The Broad-Based Stock Option Plan Transparency Act would simply ensure that the rules are not implemented before the potential impact of mandatory expensing is given full consideration. The bill includes a three-year moratorium to allow the SEC to study the impact expensing options may have on our economy and on small, entrepreneurial businesses. “Given the radical change the new rules would establish and the potentially devastating impact on employee ownership programs, Congress has the responsibility to make sure that rules governing stock options are appropriate and implemented responsibly. “Our bill would also enact new disclosure rules for companies who offer stock options. The legislation requires those who offer stock options to disclose additional information to every shareholder and potential investor, including plain-English descriptions of share value dilution, expanded and more prominent disclosure of stock option-related information, and a summary of stock options granted to the five most highly compensated officers. “I urge my Colleagues to support this legislation and protect broad-based employee ownership programs.” ## Return to Top
02.02.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Denounces IRS Decision to Tax FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grants February 2nd, 2005 February 3, 2005 Congresswoman Anna G. Eshoo today released a letter to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Mark Everson demanding that he reverse a decision to tax the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA’s) flood prevention programs and vowed to fight until this unfair and senseless decision is reversed. The decision negatively impacts her constituents in Santa Cruz and San Mateo Counties, as well as thousands of Californians throughout the state and tens of thousands of Americans throughout the nation. “We should encourage people to prepare for disaster by participating in FEMA’s mitigation programs,” said Eshoo. “But by taxing FEMA’s mitigation assistance, the IRS will make it unaffordable for property owners to do so and prevent them from taking steps to protect their lives and property.” “These are programs with a record of success. Last week, Governor Schwarzenegger credited the FEMA Hazard Mitigation Grant Program with preventing millions of dollars in property damage during the flooding and mudslides in Southern California. With such a clear demonstration of effectiveness, I’m astounded that the IRS would destroy this program by taxing it.” In addition to the letter to Commissioner Everson, Eshoo is a cosponsor of H.R. 380 and H.R. 387, legislation that would overturn the IRS decision if Commissioner Everson fails to do so administratively. She is also organizing other Members of Congress to appeal to Chairman Thomas of the House Ways and Means Committee to adopt legislation to address this problem. She has gained the support of, among many others, House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, House Appropriations Chairman Jerry Lewis, Congressman Tom Lantos and Congressman Sam Farr. Eshoo has pledged to work with Santa Cruz County Supervisor Mark Stone and other elected officials, as well as the residents of Felton Grove and other affected areas to facilitate communication with the IRS until the decision is overturned. # # #
01.20.2005	+ SHARE Local Korean War Hero Finally Awarded Bronze Star January 20th, 2005 January 21, 2005 In 1952, in the midst of the Korean War, Dr. Richard Blum served in the Army’s 212th Psychiatric Detachment as the first-ever “Combat Psychologist,” a successful experimental position that saved many soldiers from the horrors of combat fatigue and created a fighting force that could recuperate more quickly from the emotional toll that war often inflicts on soldiers. Dr. Blum’s research not only led to new diagnostic methods that made it easier to treat large numbers of soldiers with psychological ailments, but he also conducted research that helped to fight hemorrhagic fever, a Hanta Virus-like ailment that was devastating to those fighting on the front-lines. At the end of Dr. Blum’s tour in 1952, his Commanding Officer recommended him for the Bronze Star, but because of problems with his paperwork, the Army did not give him the award at that time. Although it is extremely rare for medals to be awarded so long after service has occurred, Rep. Anna G. Eshoo recently wrote to the Department of the Army, urging them to act quickly to grant him the honor. Eshoo said, “After 53 years, Dr. Blum will finally receive the Bronze Star he earned and it is an honor to have helped make this day arrive.” This Monday, Eshoo will host a medal ceremony and introduce Dr. Blum’s Commanding Officer, David Wilson, M.A., M.D., J.D., who, after 53 years of waiting, will pin the Bronze Star on Dr. Blum’s lapel. Listen to NPR’s story on Dr. Blum, “First Combat Psychologist Recognized” # # #
01.10.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Annouces 129th Rescue Wing to Remain at Moffett Airfield January 10th, 2005 January 11, 2005Eshoo Announces 129th Rescue Wing to Remain at Moffett Airfield January 11, 2005 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, announced today that the Air Force has informed her that the National Guard Bureau has decided to remove from consideration their request to transfer the 129th Rescue Wing (RQW) from Moffett Federal Airfield to Castle Airport, a closed Air Force Base located in Merced County. “Today, I’m honored and thrilled to announce that common sense has finally prevailed and we can now say to the men and women of the 129th Rescue Wing, Moffett Federal Airfield will remain your home,” Eshoo said. Moving the 129th RQW would have forced the relocation of scores of unit members who didn’t wish to leave their homes and jobs, wasted millions of taxpayer dollars, left the Bay Area more vulnerable in the event of a disaster, and increased the likelihood of a BRAC closure or realignment of the unit. Air Force officials had been reviewing the proposal to move the unit and after extensive discussions and investigation, their counterparts in the National Guard Bureau have finally concluded that the money to transfer the unit is simply not available and the proposal to move the unit could leave the unit vulnerable to BRAC Closure. Eshoo visited with members of the unit on July 12, 2003 and made a commitment to them that she would do everything in her power to keep them at Moffett Federal Airfield. ##
01.06.2005	+ SHARE Eshoo Urges Congress to Restore Confidence in Elections January 6th, 2005 January 6, 2005 WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, made the following statement on the House floor during debate on the certification of Ohio’s Electoral Votes in the 2004 presidential election. “Mr. Speaker, the debate today is not about contesting the results of the last November’s election. Today’s debate cuts to the essence of our democracy — the founding principle of our country — the right to vote. Clearly, the right to vote is dependent on the assurance that all voters have access to the polls and that all votes will be counted. But since the Presidential Election in 2000 the American public has grown increasingly wary of the accuracy and integrity of our elections, and I applaud my colleagues for their efforts to bring focus to this issue. It’s essential that we bring attention to the serious problems facing our electoral system. “It’s up to Congress to restore confidence in our elections, and I call on all Members to make this a priority in the 109th Congress. The 2000 Presidential Election spurred a series of reforms, and Congress took important first steps to improve our system of voting. I was proud to cosponsor the Help America Vote Act, which did much to upgrade our electoral process and create national standards for conducting elections. However, I’m disappointed that subsequent efforts to increase the security and reliability of our elections have not been considered. As a cosponsor of the Voter Confidence and Increased Accountability Act in the 108th Congress, I supported requiring verifiable paper trails for all voting machines, a step that would provide a significant boost to voter confidence and allow for expedited recounts. Unfortunately, this legislation was not considered prior to the 2004 election, and the House Majority leadership refused to even bring it up in committee. This issue must be revisited and legislation should be promptly passed in the 109th Congress. “Democratic elections are the foundation of all democracies, and thousands of Americans have died — and continue to die every day — for the right to vote. The United States of America should set the standard for fair and accurate elections, and the reported irregularities tell us that we continue to fall short. One need not believe in conspiracy theories or maintain that the outcome in Ohio was invalid to recognize that we still suffer from serious shortcomings in our electoral process “I urge my colleagues not to let this opportunity slip by. We must promptly pass electoral reforms that will ensure that the results of our elections are beyond reproach and accepted by all voters.” ###
12.16.2004	+ SHARE Eshoo Criticizes Stock Options Rule December 16th, 2004 December 16, 2004Eshoo Criticizes Stock Options Rule December 16, 2004 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, D-Palo Alto, criticized today’s decision by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) to force companies to “expense” employee stock option plans, despite widely recognized problems in valuing the options accurately. FASB announced a draft rule in March, and today’s action will make the final rule effective next June. “FASB’s rule ignores the fact that no accurate model for valuing employee stock options has been developed — including the binomial and Black-Scholes models endorsed by FASB,” said Eshoo said. “Neither of these methods was designed for valuation of employee stock options and FASB has flatly refused to road-test these formulas in real-world business environments.” “This issue cuts to the heart of job creation, economic growth and competitiveness,” Eshoo said. “Stock options have been a critical tool for workers to share in the success of their companies. Yet if FASB’s proposal is put into effect, it will severely curtail broad-based stock option plans for rank-and-file employees.” “By moving forward to force expensing without further examination, FASB is essentially telling companies ‘We don’t really know how you can do it accurately, but you must expense options.’ As a result of FASB’s rule, companies’ balance sheets will actually contain less accurate — not more accurate — information for investors.” In the 108th Congress, Eshoo, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was the lead Democratic sponsor, with Rep. Richard Baker (R-LA), of bipartisan legislation to protect broad-based stock option plans and study the expensing issue more carefully. H.R. 3574, the Stock Option Accounting Reform Act: Requires companies to expense options granted to the CEO and the next four highest-paid officers. Small businesses are exempted from this obligation and cannot be required to expense options for the three years following an initial public offering. Prohibits SEC recognition of any further stock option expensing requirements pending the completion of economic impact studies by the Commerce and Labor Departments. H.R. 3574 passed the House of Representatives in July by an overwhelming vote of 312-111, but the Senate Leadership did not bring the bill to the Senate floor. “More work must be done to evaluate the economic consequences of mandatory expensing and to devise an accurate, reliable model for valuing employee options,” Eshoo said. “FASB has refused to consider either of these issues, so it’s incumbent on the SEC to do so before the rules are implemented next year. If the SEC refuses to uphold its responsibility to employees, investors, and companies, then Congress will have to step in to prevent this deeply flawed standard from taking effect.” ##
12.07.2004	+ SHARE Eshoo Applauds Passage of Intelligence Reform Bill December 7th, 2004 December 7, 2004Eshoo Applauds Passage of Intelligence Reform Bill December 7, 2004 Washington, D.C. — Rep. Anna G. Eshoo, a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, applauded today’s House passage of S. 2845, the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Protection Act of 2004. The bill passed by a vote of 336-75, and will now be sent to the Senate for a vote tomorrow. “The intelligence system in our country has been in place for over 40 years, and it’s long past time to overhaul a structure that has become dysfunctional,” said Eshoo, D-Palo Alto. “A stronger intelligence community will make us safer from threats to our national security and less vulnerable to terrorists.” “Eight months ago, I was an original cosponsor of and introduced H.R. 4104, comprehensive intelligence reform legislation which the 9/11 Commission used in formulating its own recommendations. I’m pleased that the Conference Report before us contains many of the provisions in our bill, including: “The creation of national intelligence centers, including a center focused on counterterrorism and one on weapons of mass destruction; “Strong authorities for the new Director of National Intelligence; “Personnel management reforms modeled on Goldwater-Nichols Act changes to the Defense Department to create a joint culture within the intelligence community; and “Mandates for an information sharing environment for counterterrorism linking intelligence, law enforcement, and homeland security information, including common standards for security clearances and classification procedures.” “No one can guarantee that terrorists will not strike us again, but with this legislation we are taking strong steps to prevent future attacks,” Eshoo said. “The intelligence system in our country is broken, and the American people expect us to fix it.” “This legislation is supported by the President, the congressional leadership of both parties, the 9/11 Commission, the families of the victims of 9/11, and the American people,” Eshoo said. “These reforms are overdue and I’m pleased that the House has acted to respond to the threats facing our country. I hope the Senate will act quickly and send this bill to the President’s desk.” ##
