03.08.2019	Washington– Friday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released this statement following his vote against H.R. 1: “Almost weekly now, House Democrats are continuing their assault on the United States Constitution with bill after bill designed to put the federal government at the center of every aspect of our lives. H.R. 1 supersedes states’ Constitutional rights by putting the federal government in charge of elections, weakening our voting system with one-size-fits-all solutions. “Worse yet, this legislation uses taxpayer dollars to create a campaign slush fund for politicians. Tax dollars should be used to provide critical services to the American people, and I fail to see how handing out taxpayer money to politicians benefits the hardworking American people who have entrusted us to do right by them. “This is an egregious constitutional overreach. I urge my Democrat colleagues to reevaluate their priorities moving forward, and remember the document that is the basis of our great nation.”
03.07.2019	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) responded to Huawei’s lawsuit filed against the United States over language included in the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “The Chinese government continues to deny their well-established use of state-directed commercial technology companies like Huawei to spy on the United States. Congress acted decisively and well within our constitutional authority in the FY19 NDAA to prevent Huawei and other similar companies from gaining access to U.S. government communications. Unsurprisingly, China and Huawei are not happy about it. Regardless of any bogus lawsuits, I remain committed to acting in America’s own best interest, and in the interest of our national security, before all else.”
03.07.2019	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement regarding the Democrats’ failed attempt to stand against anti-Semitic comments from one of their own: “Anti-Semitism, racism, white supremacy, and hateful speech have no place in the House of Representatives. “When a Member of Congress violates these principles, appropriate action must be taken. As recently as January, that included a resolution unequivocally condemning the Member of Congress and his comments and removal from all committees. “Now, we have a Member of Congress who continually chooses to use anti-Semitic rhetoric, and House Democrat leadership refuses to directly acknowledge the problem. Instead of strict condemnation, they have hemmed and hawed over the intent of the statements made. Democrats have handed out allowances for inexperience and youth, adding insult to injury for millions of Jewish Americans. Worse yet, Nancy Pelosi has allowed this Member of Congress to remain on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “This watered-down resolution included the Democrats’ kitchen sink, but did not lend support to Christians, Mormons, and many other groups that face regular discrimination in this country and abroad. “House Democrats must take bigotry of all kinds seriously, not just instances that fit their progressive liberal agenda.”
02.28.2019	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Conaway released the following statement after voting no on H.R. 1112: “The National Instant Criminal System (NICS) was designed to provide instant, accurate, and fair background checks. There is no reason to arbitrarily increase the wait period for purchasing a firearm for up to twenty days after an individual has passed a comprehensive NICS background check. This is yet another example of Democrats overreaching to hinder the constitutional rights of millions of Americans while doing nothing to address the real issue at hand: criminals don’t follow the law, and this bill does nothing to stop criminals from accessing firearms. It is unacceptable, and I am proud to stand with Congressional Republicans and President Trump in support of our Second Amendment right to bear arms.”
02.27.2019	Washington– Wednesday, Congressman Conaway released the following statement after voting no on H.R. 8: “Today, Democrats continued to put their ‘feel good’ progressive agenda before real solutions that could make a difference in protecting life. H.R. 8 does nothing to prevent criminals from obtaining guns and doing harm to our communities, but it does further hinder law-abiding citizens from exercising their Second Amendment rights. “Democrats have gone to such extreme lengths to stop Americans from rightfully owning firearms, and refuse to work with Republicans towards commonsense solutions. H.R. 8 would not have stopped many of the tragic mass shootings we’ve seen over the past few years, including those in Parkland, Sutherland Springs, Las Vegas, and Newtown. Instead, we would be better served by legislation like the Mass Violence Prevention Act, which directly targets firearm-related violence without infringing on our Second Amendment rights. “Unfortunately, it’s clear that the Democrats’ priorities lie not with facts, our constitution, nor the citizens of our nation, but with their own partisan agenda.”
02.26.2019	Washington– Tuesday, the House of Representatives joined the Senate in passing S. 47, The Natural Resources Management Act. Included in this legislative package is H.R. 368, Congressman Mike Conaway’s bill to preserve the Midland home of the Bush family as a national landmark. “Midland is proud to be the location of George W. Bush’s childhood home and a piece of our nation’s history,” said Congressman Conaway. “Now a museum, this historic site has been home to two presidents, two governors, and a first lady. Taking the first step towards preserving this landmark as a part of the National Park System, my legislation ensures that future generations are able to learn from these great American leaders. “I thank my colleagues for their support, and look forward to President Trump signing this bill into law.”
02.08.2019	Washington– Friday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Congressman Gerry Connolly (VA- 11) reintroduced a resolution condemning the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea’s labor camp system, and calling upon DPRK leadership to dismantle it. “Egregious crimes against humanity are taking place in labor camps across North Korea,” said Congressman Conaway. “Innocent individuals are sent to these prison camps for any reason from listening to pop music to holding Christian beliefs. Once imprisoned, these individuals are murdered, exterminated in mass, tortured, subjected to sexual violence, and forced into intense labor, designed to kill. Women are frequently raped and impregnated by prison guards, and then beaten to induce abortion. While it’s difficult to acknowledge these unthinkable cruelties still exist in our world, it’s absolutely critical that we stand up against the human rights violations taking place in North Korea today.” “Congress must come together with one voice to condemn North Korea’s abhorrent labor camps,” said Congressman Gerry Connolly. “Our resolution sends a clear message to Pyongyang that we will not turn a blind eye to the atrocities and human rights abuses the regime has committed." The text of the resolution can be found here. DongHyuk Shin, a former prisoner and escapee of the notorious Camp 14, has endorsed this resolution as well.
02.05.2019	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement after President Trump’s State of the Union address to Congress: “Throughout his time in office, President Trump has offered a consistent and confident vision for America’s future. Tonight, he called on Congress to put aside bitter, partisan politics and do everything we can to work together on behalf of the American people. “I especially appreciate President Trump’s commitment to putting our nation, and our citizens, first. Trade deals are being renegotiated in order to protect American workers from being hurt by foreign nations taking advantage of unfair trading practices. Jobs for Americans are being created at unprecedented rates, and unemployment remains at historic lows. Our military is being rebuilt to give our servicemembers the support they need to successfully execute their missions and keep our nation safe. “With another government funding deadline looming, it’s critical that we come together on immigration reform. There is no doubt that our immigration system is broken. I’ve long said that any solution must start by securing the border. Gaining full operational control of the border is in America’s best interest, because it allows us to know exactly who and what is coming and going across our border. “Speaker Pelosi has been steadfast in her refusal to negotiate, but it’s time to come to the table. Immigration reform deserves more than political games – it deserves a serious conversation. I hope Speaker Pelosi will meet President Trump halfway to accomplish something that is long overdue.” ###
01.22.2019	Washington–Tuesday, Congressmen Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Tim Ryan (OH-13) reintroduced The Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act. This legislation works to safeguard American assets from Chinese influence and possession, as well as protect American businesses from China’s tools of economic aggression. “Beijing’s Made in China 2025 initiative has made it clear that the Chinese government’s objective is to drive American companies out of business and move their technology and jobs to China at any cost, including the use of illegal trade practices. This legislation takes the important step of barring the sale of national security sensitive U.S. intellectual property and technology to China, as well as ensuring that China is paying its fair share in taxes,” said Rep. Conaway. “This bill also keeps the focus on the national security threats posed by Huawei and ZTE , as China frequently uses commercial technology as a vessel to spy on the U.S. government. Allowing them access to our networks would be an enormous security risk and a massive mistake.” “Our imbalanced trade relationship with China poses profound national and economic security risks to the United States. The bipartisan Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act would help correct our trade imbalances with China and give American workers a level playing field to compete and succeed. This legislation would further strengthen the American position by safeguarding our assets from Chinese influence and possession, and blunting China’s tools of economic aggression,” said Congressman Ryan. “While the United States is operating in a 24-hour news cycle, China has a long term plan reaching 50 to 100 years. We need to get ahead of the game and strengthen our economy, and this legislation will put us on that path forward.” This bill is the companion legislation to S. 2, introduced by Senators Rubio and Warner. ###
01.18.2019	Washington– Congressmen C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD), Jim Himes (D-CT), Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Will Hurd (R-TX) Wednesday introduced bipartisan legislation that will toughen the United States’ position against national security threats posed by technology competitors like China. The bill will create a new office within the White House that will serve as a central coordinator to combat the assault on American innovation which threatens our national security. The executive-level Office of Critical Technologies & Security will be tasked with interagency coordination and creating a long-term strategic plan to combat state-sponsored technology theft and supply chain vulnerabilities. China’s state-directed and state-supported efforts to achieve economic dominance by stealing intellectual property from American businesses are well-documented. Meanwhile, the over-reliance of Americans on foreign products that have been identified as national security risks – such as cell phones made by Chinese telecom giants Huawei and ZTE – creates major supply chain risks. “Chinese telecommunications giants, such as Huawei and ZTE, have well established ties to the Chinese Communist Party and a long history of providing a vehicle for the Chinese government to spy on American citizens and our federal government,” said Congressman Conaway. “It’s critical that we respond to these rising national security threats aggressively, and utilize whatever tools we have available to prevent foreign entities from harming our country.” “We can’t be too tough when it comes to our national security,” Congressman Ruppersberger said. “We have long suspected Beijing uses its telecom companies to spy on Americans and we know China is responsible for up to $600 billion in theft of U.S. trade secrets. It’s time to get our ducks in a row: we need a coordinated, dedicated team armed with a long-term plan to ensure America maintains superiority.” “Passivity in the face of increased global threats would be a grave mistake,” said Congressman Himes. “Through the establishment of this office, we will not only increase our capacity to respond to Chinese aggression, but also signal to geopolitical rivals around the world that we will fiercely defend our national security, technology and intellectual property. This step is long overdue and will hopefully move us further toward a comprehensive cyber strategy.” “China’s coordinated assault on American companies, the U.S. government and American intellectual property is part of a broader strategy aimed at attaining leadership in advanced technology and 21st century great power politics. We must continue to hold bad actors accountable,” said Congressman Will Hurd, who spent nearly a decade fighting to secure our homeland as an undercover officer in the CIA. “I am proud to join my colleagues today to introduce this bipartisan bill that ensures that our nation uses every tool in our arsenal to combat this continued national security threat and keep Americans safe.” The Office of Critical Technologies & Security will consult with federal regulators, the private sector, academics and experts to make sure every available tool is being used to protect the supply chain and emerging technologies. The legislation is the House companion to a bipartisan bill in the U.S. Senate sponsored by Sens. Mark Warner (D-VA) and Marco Rubio (R-FL). For a copy of the bill text, click here.
01.09.2019	Washington–Wednesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement after voting against the third title of the Democrats’ proposed rules for the 116th Congress: “Democrats have started the new Congress by doubling down on Nancy Pelosi and her disastrous liberal agenda. Despite protests from House Republicans, House Democrats have decided to give Pelosi the authority to speak on behalf of the entire House of Representatives as she argues in support of Obamacare in the federal court system. However, Nancy Pelosi does not speak for the millions of Texans who want less government in healthcare, and more choices for their families. House Republicans will continue to support affordable healthcare options for everyone, including coverage for those with preexisting conditions, while keeping individual freedom and choice at the center of the conversation.”
01.03.2019	Washington – Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement after voting against the Democrats’ proposed rules for the 116th Congress: “It should come as no surprise that the Democrat’s first act in the Majority was to introduce a package of rules that would be disastrous for the majority of honest, hard working Americans. Instead of requiring thoughtful consideration and bipartisan, super-majority support for any tax increase, the Democrats have slashed historic precedence by lowering the threshold of support required to raise taxes to a simple majority. In fact, Democrats in the House can now vote to raise taxes with a simple voice vote. “In addition to giving themselves the authority to raise taxes without input from House Republicans, Democrats have also voted to automatically authorize debt ceiling increases to match their grandiose spending plans. This puts our country, already struggling with staggering debts and deficits, on the wrong fiscal path. “Nancy Pelosi has also used these rules to entrench herself as Speaker, removing the ability for individual Members of the House of Representatives to question her actions. “While this rule package and its ideals were lauded by the Democrats, my Republican colleagues and I will continue to do everything we can to stand up for the majority of Americans who just can’t afford cost associated with the Democrats’ lofty tax-and-spend ideology.”
12.11.2018	Washington–Tuesday, the House of Representatives unanimously passed Congressman Mike Conaway’s H. Res. 1035, expressing opposition to the completion of Nord Stream II. Congressman Conaway released the following statement upon passage: “Vladimir Putin is once again attempting to flex Russia’s energy muscle to exert control over Western Europe through the construction of Nord Stream II, an underwater gas pipeline that would connect the Russian Federation to Germany through the Baltic Sea. Despite a 55 billion cubic meter surplus in existing transit lines through Ukraine, Russia is determined to build a pipeline that would be 100 percent Russian owned and operated by a company whose chairman is currently sanctioned by the United States. “Russia has continually defied global norms, sovereign boarders, and international law. We would be foolish to allow Vladimir Putin a stronger grip on our European allies and the global energy market.” Congressman Conaway’s speech on the House Floor in support of H. Res. 1035 can be found here.
12.10.2018	Washington–Monday, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Mike Conaway’s H.R. 3008, the George W. Bush Childhood Home Study Act. This legislation, which passed 382-4-2, aims to preserve the Midland home of the Bush family as a national landmark. “George W. Bush’s childhood home in Midland, Texas is a piece of our nation’s history,” said Rep. Conaway. “Two Presidents, two governors, and a first lady have called this house their home. As the nation mourns the passing of George Herbert Walker Bush, our 41st President, we are especially reminded of the importance of preserving living landmarks for future generations. “Currently open to the public as a museum, my legislation will work to protect the home as a national historic landmark. I’m grateful for the outpouring of support this bill received, which will ensure that all Americans have the opportunity to be inspired by the lives of the Bush family.”
11.15.2018	Washington–Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement regarding the completion of the Department of Defense’s first audit: “After years of hard work, the Department of Defense has officially completed its first ever audit of the entire department. Given the sheer size of the DoD, many questioned the feasibility of a full audit. I applaud the many men and women whose determination made this accomplishment possible. “Not enough can be said about the magnitude of this accomplishment. The result of the audit was no surprise- the DoD still has a long way to go. However, that does not detract from the significance of this step towards increasing accountability across the DoD. For the first time, we – the American taxpayer – have a clear picture of what processes work, and which ones do not, which will be critical to annual audits moving forward. Now that the DoD has crossed this crucial threshold, I expect the results of each annual audit to improve, ending with a clean audit in the near future. “This is a tremendous milestone. I look forward to reviewing the full audit report in its entirety, and continuing our work in Congress to support the Department of Defense as it tackles all future audits.” Congressman Conaway, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee and a CPA by trade, has made Department of Defense auditability a top priority throughout his time in Congress. You can learn more about his efforts here, here, here, and here.
09.28.2018	Washington–This week, the House of Representatives passed a package of three bills known as Tax Reform 2.0. This collection of legislation included H.R. 6760, the Protecting Family and Small Businesses Tax Cuts Act, H.R. 6757, the Family Savings Act, and H.R. 6756, the American Innovation Act. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage: “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which President Trump signed into law in December, provided American families with increased pay checks and job opportunities. Tax Reform 2.0 builds on the successes of that legislation, locking in the new lower tax rates, a doubled Child Tax credit, the first ever Paid Family Leave Tax Credit, and a doubled exemption from the Death Tax. “House Republicans remain committed to making a real difference for families, businesses, and communities across our nation and thanks to these historic tax reform packages, Texas families and businesses have more financial freedom than ever to save, grow, and prosper.”
09.27.2018	Washington–Wednesday, Congressmen Mike Conaway and Gene Green of Texas introduced H. Con. Res. 139, a resolution expressing support for the United States to pursue and enter into a military treaty alliance of extended deterrence with the State of Israel. “Israel is our most important ally in an increasingly unstable region, and America and Israel have a long history of cooperation critical to both nations’ safety and security,” said Congressman Conaway. “Congressional support for Israel has never been stronger, including providing for our mutual defense in the event of an attack from an adversary such as Iran. Now more than ever, we must stand with Israel, and make sure there is no confusion amongst potential adversaries like Iran on our commitment.” “As the Co-Chair of the Democratic Israel Working Group, I believe we must support our friends and greatest ally in the Middle East during a time of instability in the Islamic Republic of Iran,” said Congressman Green. “We must also hold the Iranian regime accountable and double our efforts to bring peace to the region and continue to tangibly support Israel in its request for peace.”
07.26.2018	Washington–Thursday, the House of Representatives passed the FY19 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report by a vote of 359-54. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage: “The annual National Defense Authorization Act provides our men and women in uniform with the training, equipment, and resources they need in order to successfully perform their mission. This year’s NDAA honors President Trump’s commitment to our servicemembers to improve readiness and rebuild our military. “Also included in this legislation is the Defending U.S. Government Communications Act, my bill to protect the United States government from Chinese spyware. Chinese telecommunications companies, such as Huawei and ZTE, have extensive ties to the Chinese Communist Party, which has continually proven its willingness to harness commercial technologies for the government’s gain. This legislation, which President Trump will soon sign into law, protects the U.S. from spying Chinese eyes by preventing the federal government from purchasing or leasing telecommunications equipment or services from Huawei or ZTE. “As a CPA, Department of Defense (DoD) auditability has remained a top priority throughout my time in Congress. This year’s NDAA includes three amendments I authored to continue moving DoD towards full auditability. “I’m proud to send the FY19 NDAA to President Trump’s desk, and in record time. Our servicemembers are counting on us, and I’m proud to deliver them this bill.” Learn more about the FY19 NDAA, including other provisions sponsored by Congressman Conaway that were included, here.
06.20.2018	Washington – Congressman Mike Conaway (R-Texas), along with Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Senator Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Congresswoman Liz Cheney (R-Wyoming), and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-Maryland) today sent a letter to Google CEO Sundar Pichai expressing concern about Google’s relationship with the Chinese telecom company Huawei because of its potential threat to U.S. national security. “Chinese telecommunications companies, such as Huawei, have extensive ties with the Chinese Communist Party. As a result, this partnership between Google and Huawei could pose a serious risk to U.S. national security and American consumers,” the members wrote. The letter urges Google to reconsider their work with Huawai, particularly in light of their decision to terminate a key partnership with the U.S. Department of Defense known as Project Maven. The full text of the letter can be found here and below. June 20, 2018 Sundar Pichai Chief Executive Officer Google LLC 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View, CA 94043 Mr. Pichai, We write to express our concerns about Google’s “strategic partnership” with Huawei Technologies. Chinese telecommunications companies, such as Huawei, have extensive ties with the Chinese Communist Party. As a result, this partnership between Google and Huawei could pose a serious risk to U.S. national security and American consumers. Since the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence released its investigative report on the national-security issues posed by Chinese telecommunications firms in 2012, U.S. officials have publicly raised concerns about Huawei’s ties to the Chinese government. During a February 2018 hearing of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, the heads of six U.S. intelligence agencies warned American citizens not to use Huawei products or services. At the same hearing, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director Christopher Wray testified that he was “deeply concerned about the risks of allowing any company or entity that is beholden to foreign governments that don’t share our values to gain positions of power inside our telecommunications networks.” The concerns of the Intelligence Community are well founded: recent reports indicate that a former U.S. intelligence officer charged with spying for the Chinese government used Huawei technology to communicate with his handlers. In fact, Congress is considering a number of bipartisan measures to address the threat posed by Huawei. Earlier this year, we introduced the Defending U.S. Government Communications Act, which would prohibit the U.S. government from purchasing or leasing telecommunications equipment or services from Huawei or other Chinese telecommunications companies. Both chambers of Congress have included elements of this bill in the fiscal year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act. In addition, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has proposed a measure that would bar the use of the FCC’s Universal Service Fund to purchase equipment or services from companies deemed a national-security risk, including Huawei. Over the coming months, the federal government will likely take further measures to defend U.S. telecommunications networks from Huawei and companies like it. We urge you to reconsider Google’s partnership with Huawei, particularly since your company recently refused to renew a key research partnership, Project Maven, with the Department of Defense. This project uses artificial intelligence to improve the accuracy of U.S. military targeting, not least to reduce civilian casualties. While we regret that Google did not want to continue a long and fruitful tradition of collaboration between the military and technology companies, we are even more disappointed that Google apparently is more willing to support the Chinese Communist Party than the U.S. military. Thank you for your time and consideration. We look forward to your response, including the rationale for your decision to partner with Huawei but not the U.S. military, as well as your plans to mitigate the grave risks of working with Huawei. Sincerely, ###
06.07.2018	Washington–This week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement after introducing H.R. 6000, The FriendSHIP Act: “After examining U.S. security concerns on a congressional delegation trip to Southeast Asia last week, it is clear this region of the world presents direct dangers to America’s safety. It is crucial that the U.S. does more to empower our allies and friends in the region. “This legislation authorizes the transfer of an amphibious ship to Japan, providing our close ally with a badly needed tool to reinforce security in an increasingly dangerous part of the world. The ship in question, a TARAWA class amphibious ship in decommissioned reserve status, will help Japan bolster its Navy as well as provide critical humanitarian assistance and disaster relief. Before the transfer by sale or grant, the ship will undergo repair and refurbishment as needed in a United States shipyard at Japan’s expense, and any cost associated with the transfer will be covered by Japan, not U.S. taxpayers. The world needs our leadership, however, the U.S. cannot do everything. With this ship, Japan can help provide peace where the U.S. would have been required to.”
06.05.2018	Washington–After returning from a CODEL to China and South East Asia last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) partnered with Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13) to introduce the Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act. “China has taken advantage of our trading relationship, becoming increasingly aggressive with illegal trade practices in an attempt to specifically undermine and drive American companies out of business,” said Congressman Conaway. “This presents significant national security and economic risks to the United States. President Trump has made strides towards improving our trading position with China, and the Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act will build on those efforts to ensure that America’s own best interests are protected from Chinese aggression. “This legislation prohibits the sale of national security sensitive U.S. intellectual property and technology to China, and protects the U.S. from China’s attempts to weaken the U.S. economy. Chinese commercial technology is a proven vehicle for the Chinese government to spy on the U.S. government, and this bill includes my legislation to prohibit the federal government from purchasing or leasing Huawei or ZTE products or services. In today’s changing global environment, American national security and economic interests must come first. I’m proud to introduce this legislation with Congressman Ryan to do just that.” Congressman Ryan added, “Our imbalanced trading relationship with China raises significant national and economic security concerns for the United States that we should be taking seriously. Congress has an obligation to fight for a level playing field with China that protects our own workers, intellectual property, and manufacturing base. We must act to stop abusive Chinese trade practices immediately, and then put into place a long-term strategic plan to strengthen the United States’ position in the globe. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation with Senator Marco Rubio and Congressman Conaway to check China’s economic abuses that undercut our economic viability and national security.” This bill is the companion legislation to S. 2826, introduced by Senator Rubio. “Re-balancing America’s relationship with China is one of the great challenges of the 21st century. Without strong, consistent, and strategic action to assert our national interests, China threatens to supplant the United States to undermine our security and prosperity,” said Senator Rubio. “The Fair Trade with China Enforcement Act targets China’s tools of economic aggression to make clear the United States will stand up for its workers on the international stage. I welcome Rep. Conaway and Rep. Ryan’s leadership in the House of Representatives on this critical issue.”
05.24.2018	Washington– Thursday, the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 351-66. Congressman Mike Conaway, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement of support: “Every year, the National Defense Authorization Act provides critical funding and support for the men and women who serve our nation. This year’s NDAA supports President Trump’s commitments to rebuild the military and improve readiness after the drastic cuts the last administration made. “This legislation makes major reforms to the Pentagon bureaucracy, including streamlining inefficiencies in the buying practices and three amendments I authored to improve the auditability of the Department of Defense- a top priority of mine as a CPA.It also gives our troops the largest pay raise in nine years. “The NDAA addresses rising threats around the world, including Russia, China, North Korea, and Iran, and reaffirms our key alliance with Israel. My 12 Carrier Act, which adds a carrier to our fleet to meet the projection needs of our Navy, was also included in this legislation, as were my amendments supporting Georgia and the Baltic states. “This NDAA is chock-full of provisions to provide our servicemembers with the resources and training they need in order to successfully execute their missions and protect our nation. I urge the Senate to act swiftly- our men and women in uniform are counting on it.”
05.10.2018	Washington– Thursday, the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) passed the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Congressman Mike Conaway, a senior member of HASC, released the following statement of support: “The National Defense Authorization Act is crucial to providing our servicemembers with the resources they need to successfully execute their missions. Under the last administration, our military suffered drastic cuts that harmed readiness, like training and equipment, leaving our armed forces unprepared to take on the risks we rely on them to take. “Also adopted into this year’s NDAA were several amendments I authored. These amendments include the 12 Carrier Act, which meets the projection needs of our Navy by adding a twelfth aircraft carrier to our fleet. Also adopted were my statements of support for Georgia and the Baltic states. Another amendment offered and included in the final mark allowed for the transfer by sale of one decommissioned amphibious ship to our ally, Japan. And finally, I authored several amendments to improve the auditability of the Department of Defense. As a CPA by trade, I’ve made DoD auditability a top priority. Progress is being made, but there are still opportunities for improvement. “This NDAA provides for our troops, and looks to the future needs of our military. I’m proud of the work done by this committee, and I look forward to adoption of this legislation by the full House of Representatives.”
04.27.2018	Washington– Friday, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) released its Russia Investigation report to the public. The report, which has undergone the Intelligence Community’s (IC) classification review process, follows last month’s release of findings and recommendations. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), who has led the probe since last April, released the following statement: “Today, HPSCI is able to release a declassified version of our report on the Russia Investigation. With the public release of this report, the American people will have the opportunity to access the information used to draw the conclusions found in last month’sfindings and recommendations. “However, I am extremely disappointed with the overzealous redactions made by the IC. Many of the redactions include information that is publicly available, such as witness names andinformation previously declassified.When we started this investigation, we set out to give the American people the answers to the questions they’ve been asking and we promised to be as transparent as possible in our final report. I don’t believe the information we’re releasing today meets that standard, which is why my team and I will continue to challenge the IC’s many unnecessary redactions with the hopes of releasing more of the report in the coming months.” The report is available here and here.
04.26.2018	Washington– Wednesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced two resolutions, H.Res. 846 and H.Res. 847, calling on Congress to supportEstonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Georgia. “Russian aggression continues to present a threat to our allies in Eastern Europe,” said Congressman Conaway. “The resolutions I’ve introduced ask Congress to reaffirm the United States’ support for the sovereignty ofGeorgia and the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania and recognize the importance of cooperation between these nations and the United States. Georgia, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania have continually demonstrated their commitment to the United States. These strategic partnerships are critical to our collective defense, and must be protected vehemently.” Congressman Conaway has introduced these resolutions as amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for the last three years, and will do the same for the FY2019 NDAA. The text of the resolutions can be found here: H.Res. 846 and H.Res. 847.
04.17.2018	Washington – Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement regarding Tax Day: “Thankfully, today was the last Tax Day the American people will ever have to file their taxes under the old, broken tax code. Families across America are already starting to see the impacts of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act with more money in their paychecks each month, and companies are responding by raising wages, handing out bonuses, and creating new jobs across the country. “Next year, families will be able to easily file their taxes on a simpler form. With an increased child tax credit, and the standard deduction nearly doubled, Americans will be keeping more of their hard-earned paychecks come Tax Day. In fact, the average family of four will see a tax cut of over $2,000 in 2018, giving everyone more financial freedom. “Tomorrow, the House of Representatives will consider the Taxpayer First Internal Revenue Service Reform (IRS) Package. For too long, the IRS has complicated the process of filing taxes with an archaic, bureaucratic process. With our proposed legislation, the IRS will be directed to improve efficiency, enhance security, and better serve taxpayers. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was the drastic modernization our tax code needed, but we’ll continue to work on legislation like the Taxpayer First reform package to ensure that the IRS is working hard on behalf of the American people, instead of the other way around.”
04.13.2018	Washington– Thursday, the House of Representatives voted on H.J.Res. 2, proposing a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Although the majority of the House of Representatives voted to pass this amendment by a vote of 233-184, it did not receive the two-thirds majority required to pass a Constitutional amendment. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released this statement following his vote in favor of the Balanced Budget Amendment: “Our nation’s debt is growing at an alarming and unsustainable rate. I have been a staunch advocate for the Balanced Budget Amendment throughout my time in Congress, because I believe that the best way to get our nation back on track is to use the same technique as American families across the country: not spending more money than we take in. “Unfortunately, the majority of my Democrat colleagues do not share the concerns of Americans across our country and they would rather spend with abandon than make tough choices about what we can realistically afford as a nation. However, this will not stop Republicans from continuing to promote smart policies to get America’s fiscal house in order. It’s up to us to protect the America we know and love for future generations to come.”
03.22.2018	Washington– Thursday, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) voted to release the Russia Investigation report out of Committee, and to release its findings and recommendations publicly. The report will be released to the public pending the Intelligence Community (IC) classification review. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), who has led the probe since last April, released the following statement: “Last January, we set out to investigate Russian active measures during the 2016 election. Today, we are one step closer to delivering answers to the questions the American people have been asking for over a year. “The findings and recommendations that we are releasing today show a pattern of Russian active measures in the United States, both through cyberattacks and their use of social media to sow discord. This poses a serious threat to future U.S. elections, including the primary elections that are already underway. It’s critical to release this information now, to protect our country and our elections from foreign interference. “I’m incredibly grateful to the Members and staff who worked tirelessly on this investigation, and this report. It’s now time for us to share what we’ve found, and move forward as one country, united against foreign aggression.”
03.20.2018	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H. Res. 785, a resolution expressing support for continued cooperation between Israel and the United States. “Israel is America’s strongest ally in an increasingly unstable region,” said Congressman Conaway. “As the Islamic Republic of Iran continues to engage in destabilizing activities throughout the Middle East, Israel needs our support more than ever. This resolution reaffirms America’s support for Israel as outlined in the United States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 and a 2016 memorandum of understanding between the United States and Israel, and shows our support for including Israel in the first tier of countries receiving strategic trade authorization. I encourage my colleagues to sign on to this resolution to ensure that our ally Israel is not abandoned in the fight against terrorism in the Middle East.”
03.12.2018	Washington– On Monday, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI) announced an update on the status of the Russia Investigation. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), who has led the probe since last April, released the following statement: “Near the start of the HPSCI investigation into Russian active measures during the 2016 election, the Committee majority and minority agreed to four parameters for this investigation, covering Russian active measures directed against the 2016 election and against our European allies, the U.S. Government’s response to those attacks, links between Russians and the Trump and Clinton campaigns, and leaks of classified information. After conducting 73 witness interviews, holding nine hearings and briefings, and reviewing over 300,000 documents, we are confident that we have thoroughly investigated the agreed-upon parameters, and developed reliable initial findings and recommendations. “We will now be moving into the next phase of this investigation, working with the minority on a report to give the American people answers to the questions they’ve been asking for over a year. With the 2018 primary elections already underway and just 238 days until the mid-term elections in November, it’s important that we give the American people the information they need to arm themselves against Russian attempts to influence our elections. “I look forward to working with Ranking Member Schiff on this next phase of our investigation. The American people deserve our cooperation, and our transparency.” A one page overview of the status of the investigation can be found here.The bipartisan parameters of the investigation can be found here. The metrics of the investigation can be found here. More information about the need for urgent action on election security can be found here.
03.07.2018	Washington– Wednesday, the House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 1917, The Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns (BRICK) Act. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement after casting his vote in favor of this legislation: “In 2015, President Obama’s Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) slapped another burdensome regulation on America’s brick and tile industry, forcing kiln operators into a costly compliance scheme. EPA wildly underestimated the costs associated with this new regulation, and the average facility- many of which are small businesses- will have to spend $4.4 million to comply, for an industry total of close to $100 million. “The BRICK Act stops this regulation from taking effect, allowing companies making bricks and tiles the opportunity to complete an ongoing lawsuit against this crushing regulation. I’m glad to see this legislation pass the House, and I urge the Senate to act quickly and protect America’s brick and tile makers.” ###
03.05.2018	Washington– Monday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Congressman Gerry Connolly (VA- 11) introduced a resolution calling upon the leadership of the Government of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to dismantle its labor camp system. “The deliberate, systemic human rights abuses coming out of the labor camps in North Korea are absolutely horrifying,” said Congressman Conaway. “The crimes committed in the prison camps include murder, mass extermination, torture, sexual violence, and other inhumane acts. Innocent individuals can be sent to these camps for any reason, from listening to pop music or creasing a picture of a North Korean leader to persecution for Christian beliefs. Once imprisoned, Christians receive especially harsh treatment. Furthermore, pregnant women are violently beaten and tortured to induce abortions, ending pregnancies that are often the result of rape perpetrated by prison officials. These offenses, and the many more outlined in our resolution, are heinous violations of basic human rights. These conversations are incredibly difficult due to the gruesome nature of the labor camps, but it’s up to us to shed light on these cruelties and take a stand against them.” “Congress must come together with one voice to condemn North Korea’s abhorrent labor camps. Our resolution sends a clear message to Pyongyang that we will not turn a blind eye to the atrocities and human rights abuses the regime has committed,” added Congressman Connolly. The text of the resolution can be found here. DongHyuk Shin, a former prisoner and escapee of the notorious Camp 14, has endorsed this resolution as well. ###
02.27.2018	Washington–Tuesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced the Stopping Foreign Businesses Sanctuary Act, legislation to protect American businesses from foreign companies manipulating claims of immunity in U.S. courts. “Under current law, foreign companies who are conducting commercial activity in the United States can claim immunity in U.S. courts by arguing they are an extension of their government. This is particularly frequent among Chinese companies, who tie themselves to the Chinese government to protect themselves from being held liable for their wrongdoings. American businesses are then prevented from taking legal action against these companies, giving foreign companies an unfair advantage on American soil,” said Rep. Conaway. “In November, the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission highlighted this issue in their annual report to Congress as a recommendation of ‘particular significance.’ It’s time to stop giving sanctuary to foreign companies, and put American businesses first.” The text of the bill can be found here. The entire U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission 2017 Annual Report to Congress can be found here, and the recommendation cited above can be found here.
02.15.2018	Washington–Thursday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act. This bill, which Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) is an original cosponsor of, passed by a vote of 225-192. “The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) provides critical access to everyday life for millions of Americans who are living with a disability,” said Rep. Conaway. “Unfortunately, cash-hungry attorneys are taking advantage of the ADA by filing frivolous lawsuits against small businesses- many of which aren’t even aware of the very minor, technical offense they are being sued for. These predatory lawyers often don’t even live in the state, and rely on Google Earth to find local, small businesses to slap with a lawsuit and make a quick buck. Currently, our local businesses aren’t even given a chance to fix the violation before the lawsuit is filed, costing thousands of dollars in lawyers’ fees before the ADA violation can even be addressed. “The legislation passed today gives small businesses a chance to focus their limited resources on increasing accessibility for disabled Americans, rather than fattening the wallets of out-of-state attorneys. The ADA Education and Reform Act protects all accessibility requirements of the ADA, and encourages businesses to act quickly to address any potential violations- a win for all those involved.” ###
02.09.2018	Washington–Friday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement after Congress passed a government funding package and a two-year budget deal: “This legislation does exactly what President Trump called on Congress to do by taking care of our military, as well as providing much needed relief for cotton and dairy farmers. This bill also extends funding for community health centers and rural hospitals, and includes key provisions from legislation I authored: The Carbon Capture Act. “Millions of Americans are still working to put their lives back together after last year’s natural disasters led to record-breaking losses. The congressional delegations from the two hardest hit states of Texas and Florida worked particularly hard to develop a package that provides help where it is needed most. The relief includes vital improvements to standing disaster programs and addresses significant gaps in the safety net for cotton and dairy farmers. "Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) projects can capture up to 90 percent of the carbon dioxide emissions produced from the use of traditional fuel methods. I reintroduced the Carbon Capture Act last fall with 29 bipartisan cosponsors, and the legislation gained momentum with a wide range of support. I'm glad to see it included in this package, to ensure the continued development of these projects that not only support American ingenuity and energy independence, but also reduce emissions from traditional fuel sources. "Rural and community health centers, and the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) are also taken care of in this legislation. CHIP and rural and community health centers provide vital health care access to Texans and our children, and will no longer have to operate without funding assurances. "Most importantly, the men and women in our military who put their lives on the line for our freedoms everyday deserve our full support. Our commitment to them must include the resources they need to properly and safely execute their mission. I'm proud to say that in this legislation, our national defense will be provided for in full without fear of short-term funding running out. On military funding, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Thornberry added, “Mike has been a strong, consistent advocate for our men and women in uniform by fighting for the resources they need to do their job. He has also worked tirelessly to bring about the first audit of the Department of Defense in its history, helping us ensure that the Pentagon is a responsible steward of the resources provided by Congress. I’m glad to have someone with his expertise supporting our military through this budget deal.” ###
02.05.2018	Washington – Monday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released this statement following the news that the Department of Defense’s Defense Logistics Agency failed to document $800 million in construction projects: “This is the hard reality of a much-needed audit underway. While many will view this as a lack of progress, the audit is actually beginning to work by turning up failures in accounting. Just a few years ago, a situation of this magnitude would have gone unnoticed. With this finding, DLA will now be expected to right its course and implement correct business processes, preventing similar situations from occurring in the future.”
02.01.2018	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) led a bipartisan group of 43 Members of Congress calling on Speaker Paul Ryan, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady, andCommittee on Ways and Means Ranking Member Richard Neal to include H.R. 3761, the Carbon Capture Act, in any upcoming tax extenders package. The letter reads, in part: We write to request the House adopt similar 45Q language as our Senate colleagues in any tax extenders package that may be considered. This language, which is H.R. 3761, the Carbon Capture Act, provides critical updates to Section 45Q that allows for greater financial certainty for carbon capture projects, boosts domestic energy production, reduces carbon emissions, and provides relief for our beleaguered coal and power industries. While the current credit has spurred development and advancement in Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage (CCUS) technologies, there are inherent limitations hindering its full potential. Due to long lead times for construction and development of these projects, the current structure of the credit has, in effect, all but rendered it expired. This lack of certainty has deterred private investment and halted construction of new projects. To read the letter in its entirety, please click here.
01.20.2018	Washington – Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement regarding the House Intelligence Committee memorandum: “The House Intelligence Committee memorandum is the result of months of diligent investigation by the Committee. After a Committee vote this week, the memo has been made available to all Members of the House of Representatives. The Committee is now seeking input from colleagues who have read the memo regarding its content and next steps, including potentially releasing the memo publicly. “House rules specifically lay out the process for public release of a memorandum of this kind, which would include additional Committee consideration and a vote. I believe the memo should be released to the public in accordance with House and Committee rules, and I will keep the public apprised of future developments as this discussion progresses.”
01.20.2018	Washington – Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement following the Senate Democrat's decision to shut the government down: “Earlier in the week, the House of Representatives passed a government funding package that would keep our military funded, keep the government open, extend the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for another 6 years, and provide relief from three taxes imposed by Obamacare. “Despite all the good done for Americans in this funding package, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer has decided to take a gamble with funding for our troops and children’s healthcare because there’s one thing he wanted that isn’t included in this legislation. And unfortunately, the rest of the Senate Democrats are blindly following their leader’s decision to shut the government down. “To shut the government down because of an unwillingness to come to the table and negotiate is childish, irresponsible, and beneath the dignity of the office which Senator Schumer holds. Democrats must stop holding the American people hostage, and vote with the rest of Congress to reopen the government.”
01.19.2018	Washington – Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced legislation to expand Interstate 14. H.R. 4823, entitled Connecting the Rest to the West, would connect Brady, Texas and Junction, Texas, through San Angelo, Texas to Midland, Texas. “The Concho Valley region provides a critical and strategic crossroads for our national security and economic trade routes,” said Congressman Conaway. “San Angelo is one the largest cities in the nation without an interstate running through it and expanding I-14 through this area just makes sense. This expansion through San Angelo to Midland will not only provide a safer route for travelers and economic boon in the area, but will also directly connect the Permian Basin – one of the top oil and gas producing regions in the world – with one on the largest ports in the country. Allowing our producers to more quickly and safely move their products to market will further shore up our nation’s energy independence. “In addition to the economic benefits felt in West Texas, the route will also provide our military with a clear route connecting larger military installations in Texas, including to Fort Bliss and Fort Hood, to the strategic seaports on the Gulf Coast. I’m hopeful that this legislation will provide our growing district and country with the infrastructure it needs to continue to prosper.” To view the proposed Interstate 14 expansion, click here.
01.12.2018	Washington– This week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 4747, The Defending U.S. Government Communications Act. This bill prohibits the U.S. government from purchasing or leasing telecommunications equipment and/or services from Huawei, ZTE, or any subsidiaries/affiliates thereof. “Chinese commercial technology is a vehicle for the Chinese government to spy on United States federal agencies, posing a severe national security threat,” said Congressman Conaway. “Allowing Huawei, ZTE, and other related entities access to U.S. government communications would be inviting Chinese surveillance into all aspects of our lives. This legislation falls directly in line with President Trump’s policy of putting American national security interests first, a policy I’m proud to support. “This is an issue we’ve followed for years at the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI). The threat receded after the release of an incriminating HPSCI report, but is now reemerging as the Chinese government is reattempting to embed themselves into U.S. technology. This is extremely dangerous because the Chinese government is trying to compromise the integrity of U.S.businesses and spy on our closely held national security secrets.”
01.11.2018	Washington– Wednesday, the House Armed Services Committee held a hearing entitled, “Department of DefenseUpdate on the Financial Improvement and Audit Remediation (FIAR) Plan." Following the hearing, Congressman Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement: “Full auditability of the Department of Defense (DoD) has remained a top priority for me since I came to Congress in 2005. As a CPA, I understand the importance of an organization’s accountability through a full audit. Even more important is the responsibility of a government department, funded by taxpayers, to track every dollar spent. “It’s been a long time since I took my first meeting on DoD auditability, but I’m proud to say this hearing delivered the news that a full audit is official underway. For years, the DoD could only say they were getting ready to audit, but after dogged oversight, the DoD is now auditing and we are already seeing results after just a few months. For instance, Army leadership discovered 39 helicopters that it was previously unaware of at command level and the Air Force discovered nearly 500 structures across all its property that was unknown to command level.” As one of the few CPAs in Congress, Rep. Conaway has made Department of Defense auditability a top priority for the last decade. You can watch the full hearing here and learn more about his efforts here. ###
12.19.2017	Washington– Tuesday, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 227-203. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage: “This is a historic day. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act delivers on the promise Republicans made to the American people to provide financial relief to hardworking families across our nation, create a pro-jobs business environment, and encourage investments in our economy. “American families will see lower tax rates starting the first day of 2018. The child tax credit doubles to $2,000 per child, and by doubling the standard deduction families will pay no taxes on the first $24,000 they make each year. This legislation also repeals Obamacare’s individual mandate, putting American families back in charge of their own healthcare decisions. “This legislation provides well-deserved tax cuts to American families and ultimately, a blueprint to grow the American economy- creating even more jobs and wage increases for hardworking Texans. I applaud the hard work of Chairman Brady, the Conferees, and all those who have remained committed to passing this historic tax reform package. I look forward to the Senate’s passage of this bill tonight, allowing President Trump to sign the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act into law before Christmas.”
12.13.2017	Washington– A majority of the House of Representatives has now signaled their support for the Local Radio Freedom Act by cosponsoring this bill, led by Congressmen Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Gene Green (TX-29). This legislation, which opposes any new taxes or fees for music played on local radio stations, now has 219 cosponsors. “Local radio stations provide an invaluable service for communities, keeping citizens apprised of news, weather updates, and other emergency alerts. In the case of natural disasters, such as the recent hurricanes and wildfires, the local radio emergency alert system provides vital, life-saving information to those who might be in harm’s way. Any new taxes or fees, such as a proposed ‘performance tax,’ could place an undue burden on small, locally owned radio stations and jeopardize these essential services. I’m glad to see the majority of my colleagues stand up on behalf of these stations and their listeners,” said Rep. Conaway. “I am proud to stand with Rep. Conaway and our local radio stations in Texas and around the country to announce that a majority of the U.S. House of Representatives are sponsors of the Local Radio Freedom Act,” said Rep. Green. “The recent series of hurricanes that devastated parts of Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico, including our district in Houston and Harris County, showed the importance of free, over-the-air local radio that provides critical, potentially life-saving information and around-the-clock coverage during times of emergency. Our bipartisan resolution calls for Congress to continue the nearly century-old policy of not imposing performance fees on local radio stations to the benefit of American consumers.” ###
12.07.2017	Washington– Thursday, Department of Defense Comptroller David Norquist announced an agency-wide audit of the Pentagon’s $2.4t in assets. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released this statement following the announcement: “Today’s announcement is a major turning point for Department of Defense auditability. The commitment to perform a full, annual audit of the DoD will provide the taxpayers the accountability they deserve, as well as present opportunities for increased efficiency within the Department. I commend DoD’s leadership for following through on their promise to make audit a top priority.” As one of the few CPAs in Congress, Rep. Conaway has made Department of Defense auditability a top priority for the last decade. You can learn more about his efforts here. ###
11.16.2017	Washington– Thursday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, by a vote of 227-205. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement of support following passage: “Today, the House of Representatives passed the most sweeping tax reform legislation this country has seen in over 30 years. With the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, Republicans are putting Americans in the driver’s seat. An average, middle-income American family of four earning $59,000 a year will pay $1,182 less in taxes each year than they do today. Small businesses will see the lowest tax rates since before World War II. Larger businesses have new incentives to bring jobs and investments back to America, to help our economy grow stronger. “This legislation makes our tax code simpler and fairer for hardworking Americans who are being left behind by our current tax code. The first $24,000 a family makes will be entirely tax free under H.R. 1. The new Family Credit, an expansion of the Child Tax Credit, is increased to $1,600 to help offset the cost of raising a child or caring for a dependent grandparent. The Death Tax will be repealed, allowing family owned farms and businesses to carry on the family tradition without crippling double taxation. “American families deserve the financial relief that will come with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. I’m proud to support this legislation, and look forward to the Senate following suit quickly so that President Trump can sign these tax cuts into law.” For more information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit FairandSimple.gop. ###
11.02.2017	Washington– Thursday, the House Republican Conference unveiled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, a new plan for a simpler, fairer tax code. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement of support: “Our nation’s tax code is no longer working for middle class families. Small businesses are struggling to stay competitive. Job creation is stagnant. Americans are working harder than ever, but just aren’t seeing the benefits. “Today, House Republicans released a plan for a simpler, fairer tax code. A tax code that helps middle-class families make ends meet, helps small businesses compete, and creates American jobs by incentivizing investments in the American economy.This is the tax code that will put America back to work, and put hard earned money back in the pockets of the families that need it most. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act delivers on the promise we made to the American people when they entrusted Republicans with the Presidency and the majority in Congress. I’m looking forward to getting to work to pass this important legislation, and give Americans the tax cut they deserve.” Key Provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to 0%, 12%, 25%, and 35%, while maintaining the top tax bracket at 39.6% for high-income Americans. Doubles the standard deduction, so the first $12,000 an individual makes, or $24,000 for a married couple, will be entirely tax free. Simplifies the tax code and eliminates special interest loopholes, lowering rates for all Americans and allowing individuals and families to file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Preserves deductions American families rely upon: the deductions for charitable contributions and home mortgage interest payments will remain intact for all, as well as the Earned Income Tax Credit for low-income Americans. 401(k) and Individual Retirement Account savings options remain intact. Dramatically reduces the corporate tax rate to keep America competitive, providing the stability businesses need to grow and create jobs. Immediately doubles the exemption rate for the Death Tax, and repeals it entirely after six years. Establishes a new Family Tax Credit, which is an expansion of the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help with the costs of raising children. Preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children as well as older dependents who need additional support. ###
10.26.2017	Washington– Thursday, the House of Representatives passed the framework for tax reform legislation through the FY2018 Budget Resolution. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage: “The last time the tax code received a major overhaul, it was 1986 and a gallon of gas cost 89 cents. A lot has changed over the last 30 years, but our overly complex tax code has not and America’s middle-class families, who are now struggling to make ends meet, are suffering as a result. “Right now, the tax code favors the wealthiest individuals who can afford the army of accountants to take advantage of all the special-interest loopholes and deductions. By closing those loopholes to ensure that the top few are not given unfair advantages, and by simplifying the tax code, American families will be on an even playing field as our economy grows. In fact, the average American family will see an extra $4,000 back in their pockets each year. “The Republican vision for tax reform supports the American workers and families who have been shouldering the burdens of the recession for too long. Small businesses have been held back, unable to grow and create jobs under the current burdensome tax code. Tax reform changes that, putting Main Street back in the driver’s seat. Modernizing our tax code in the face of globalization puts the needs of our nation, our businesses, and our families first. And that’s a plan for America we can all support.”
10.05.2017	Washington– Thursday, the House of Representatives passed Building a Better America, the House Republicans’ budget proposal for FY18. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), who also spoke on the House Floor in support of this legislation, released the following statement upon passage: “As a legislator—but more importantly as a father and grandfather—I am seriously concerned about the mountain of debt our nation is passing on to our children and grandchildren. Today, the House of Representatives passed a budget for FY18 that prioritizes fiscal responsibility over frivolous spending. This budget achieves $6.5 trillion in total deficit reduction and balances within 10 years, allowing us to continue fulfilling the promises that we have made as a country to our seniors, most vulnerable, and servicemembers. Without changes to the increasing rate of government spending, we will not be able to keep these promises. “This budget also lays the framework for pro-growth tax reform that will simplify our overly complex tax code and lower tax rates for hard working American families. Our plan makes the system fairer by eliminating special-interest loopholes that only the wealthiest can take advantage of, and doubling the standard deduction so that the first $24,000 a family makes is completely tax free. “House Republicans have been working towards a balanced budget and tax reform for a long time, and we finally have a President in office who agrees that these changes will reignite our economy. It’s now up to the Senate to follow suit and send our plan to build a better America to the President’s desk.” ###
10.03.2017	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage of H.R. 36, The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: “There is no life more vulnerable than the life of an unborn child.Medical professionals have reached a consensus that at 20 weeks, a child in utero can feel pain and physical suffering. The legislation we passed today, which I was proud to cosponsor, ensures that no child capable of feeling pain will be subjected to the cruelty of an abortion. “The majority of Americans support a ban on abortions after 20 weeks, yet the United States is one of just seven countries that allows elective abortions after 20 weeks- along with countries like North Korea and China who are known to dispose of babies with defects. It’s time we stand as a country in support of the unborn children who are counting on our protection.” ###
09.14.2017	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) led a bipartisan coalition of 30 members in introducing H.R. 3761, the Carbon Capture Act. This legislation incentivizes carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) projects, a technology that can capture up to 90 percent of the carbon dioxide emissions produced from the use of traditional fuel methods in electricity generation and industrial processes. “The outpouring of bipartisan support for carbon capture and sequestration projects is overwhelming,” said Congressman Conaway. “It’s rare that we have the opportunity to support a policy that moves America towards energy independence while reducing emissions from traditional fuel sources, but this legislation does just that by encouraging the use of CCS technologies. American innovation built this country, and keeps this country growing. I’m proud to support the technologies that are leading the way.” Original cosponsors include: Rep. Robert Brady (D-PA), Rep. Ryan Costello (R-PA), Rep. David McKinley (R-WV), Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rep. Tim Murphy (R-PA), Rep. Evan Jenkins (R-WV), Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN), Rep. Scott Tipton (R-CO), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), Rep. Rodney Davis (R-IL), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX), Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Rep. Will Hurd (R-TX), Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY), Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Rep. John Moolenaar (R-MI), Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA), Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Rep. Bill Huizenga (R-MI), Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), Rep. Steve Pearce (R-NM), Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL), Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX), Rep. Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL), Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC) The Carbon Capture Act has received a great deal of industry support: “I applaud Representative Conway and the other co-sponsors for their leadership on this important legislation that willcreate jobs, decreaseour dependence on foreign oil, and provide unique environmental benefits by encouraging the capture of more CO2from power plants and other industrial sources. Occidental uses CO2in its enhanced oil recovery operations to increase the production of US oil reserves. This legislation is vital to boosting enhanced oil recovery’s ability to capture CO2 available from power plants and industrialsources. With the current tax credit system reaching its limit, it is imperative that Congress comes together to pass this bipartisan legislation." –Vicki Hollub,President and CEO, Occidental Petroleum Corporation “NRG Energy welcomes the efforts of a broad bipartisan team to advance carbon capture and enhanced oil recovery. Capturing and utilizing carbon dioxide from power plants is an opportunity to boost domestic energy production, while advancing emissions-reducing innovative technology.” – Raymond Long, Vice President, Government Affairs, NRG Energy “U.S. leadership is needed to advance carbon capture to commercial scale, which is essential to the world’s environmental goals. This legislation has broad support from both sides of the aisle and is a positive step toward creating policy parity for use of carbon capture over time in the energy and industrial sectors.” – Michael Flannigan, Senior Vice President for Global Government Affairs, Peabody Energy “We appreciate Congressman Conaway’s commitment to energy innovation, which is essential to maintaining a balanced electric generation portfolio. America’s electric cooperatives are taking aggressive steps to reduce our carbon footprint while protecting the diverse portfolio that’s needed to preserve the reliability and affordability of the co-op power supply. This legislation will help co-ops achieve this crucial goal.” -Jim Matheson, Chief Executive Officer, National Rural Electric Cooperative Association “This very bipartisan bill is an essential portion of an integrated effort to build on the advantages of CO2 injection technologies that the U.S. has pioneered.It also offers a platform to inform other countries of the value in growing clean coal and natural gas generation while taking advantage of oil production and optimizing recovery from existing fields which leads to multi-sector job growth andeconomic benefits.” – Steve Melzer, CO2 Conference Director and Consulting Engineer, Midland, Texas “The UWUA applauds the bi-partisan step taken today by the House of Representatives to support the increased deployment of carbon capture technology through strengthening the 45Q tax credit. By taking the simple step of passing this legislation, our country can tackle a significant energy challenge, one supported by a broad cross-section of the political spectrum. The health and well-being of middle-class families and their communities across the nation can only benefit from this type of forward-thinking approach to energy policy.”- Mike Langford, President of the Utility Workers Union of America. “Carbon capture on coal and gas-firedpower plantsprovide an important option forzero carbon electricity, and it maybe the most important option for reducingcarbonemissionsfrom industrial sources. Congressshould pass this bill that will that will give carbon capture an important boost to its use nation-wide, and ultimately around the world.”– Kurt Waltzer, Managing Director, Clean Air Task Force “Congressman Conaway’s Carbon Capture Act is a critical legislative component to ensure the country’s continued energy security and independence. This legislation will help ensure continued economic growth and prosperity while addressing CO2 emissions concerns by incentivizing the development and deployment of carbon capture, utilization, and storage. In also promoting enhanced oil recovery, the legislation not only helps ensure low cost reliable electricity, it is a key tool for boosting American oil production.” – Colin Marshall, CEO Cloud Peak Energy “This bipartisan bill is now an important part of a bicameral effort to give the U.S. a global edge in technologies that responsibly grow coal and natural gas generation, while also magnifying the potential for enhanced oil recovery and other economic benefits.” - ClearPath Action Executive Director Rich Powell “Lake Charles Methanol applauds the bi-partisan leadership of Congressman Conaway and other members of Congress in introducing legislation to extend and improve the Section 45Q tax credit, which would incentivize projects for carbon capture. The Lake Charles project, once constructed, will be the largest industrial carbon capture project in the country and the world. Projects such as Lake Charles require huge capital investment in a rapidly changing marketplace. These incentives will make it easier to construct and build such projects by providing a long term incentive to capture CO2 on a large scale. We applaud the leadership of Congressman Conaway and many other members of Congress and Senators in pursuing this legislation.” – Hunter Johnston, Counsel, Lake Charles Methanol, LLC “As long-time advocates of robust investments in the development of Carbon Capture, Usage & Storage technologies, the International Brotherhood of Boilermakers commends Chairman Conaway on his continued leadership in this effort. The improved Section 45Q tax credit proposed by Representative Conaway is a much-needed step toward making carbon capture affordable and deployable. Creating high-paying, high-skilled American jobs while responsibly reducing carbon emissions is a win-win.”–Cecile M. Conroy,Government Affairs Director, International Brotherhood of Boilermakers "Building on America’s legacy of global technological leadership, the Carbon Capture Act would leverage American energy abundance to fuel our economy as we protect the environment and transition to a 21st century clean energy economy. By expanding eligibility for the Section 45Q tax credit and implementing performance-based incentives, this bipartisan legislation would encourage businesses to develop the technologies that effectively capture and make productive use of carbon emissions. The economic and environmental benefits of developing these innovative technologies are substantial and essential for continued American energy leadership." -Tracy Terry, Director, Energy Project, Bipartisan Policy Center “Many power plants in North Dakota (and elsewhere) are close to oil fields that could use carbon dioxide for enhanced oil recovery. Appropriate incentives could facilitate CO2 recovery from power plants, which would provide an environmental benefit to the electric power sector and would encourage more thorough recovery of the oil resource.”– Rick Lancaster, Vice President and Chief Generation Officer, Great River Energy "The Center for Carbon Removal commends Representative Conway and co-sponsors for reintroducing their 45Q bill with key improvements, which complements the FUTURE Act introduced in the Senate. The legislation will help catalyze innovations in carbon dioxide utilization technologies that can have positive impacts for both the climate and the economy by incentivizing the capture of carbon dioxide from more sources and its profitable reuse into oil production and other products.” - Noah Deich, Executive Director, Center for Carbon Removal “Successfully developing CCUS is key for America’s energy security and key to protecting the jobs of workers in the energy industry. On behalf of America’s railroad workers, we thankRep. Conawayfor introducing this bill and pledge to work with him in seeing that this important legislation becomes law.”– John Risch, National Legislative Director, SMART-TD (UTU) “Basin Electric supports the efforts of Congressmen Conaway, Cramer and others to advance carbon capture projects in America with the introduction of the Carbon Capture Act. We believe clean coal technology coupled with carbon capture projects holds the key to an energy future that involves all sources of energy. While domestic, abundant, and reliable, the coal industry is evolving and recognizes the need to lower carbon emissions. Through our efforts at Dakota Gasification Company’s Great Plains Synfuels Plant, we’ve captured more than 35 million tons of CO2 for enhanced oil recovery. This legislation expands the tax credit to better foster opportunities for private industry and government to work together, innovate, and advance further carbon capture projects. This country has accomplished great things when industry and human ingenuity are facilitated, encouraged, and unleashed. This is a pivotal time for our nation’s energy future, and this legislation represents an important step in the right direction.” – Paul Sukut, CEO and General Manager, Basin Electric “The Wyoming Infrastructure Authority (WIA) was created by the State of Wyoming to promote and enhance the value of the state’s natural resources through improvements to energy infrastructure. One of our major areas of focus is Carbon Capture Utilization and Sequestration (CCUS) technologies. We are currently constructing the Wyoming Integrated Test Center (ITC), which will provide the largest post-combustion, coal-flue gas, testing site in the United States. Carbon capture solutions are accelerating with every new technological development. There are currently research teams from all over the world competing for space at the ITC as part of the NRG COSIA Carbon XPRIZE. At the ITC companies will scale up their technologies from the laboratory to the pre-commercial stage. The State of Wyoming identified a need for a testing facility of this scale and worked with partners in the private sector to make it a reality. There is also an important role for the Federal Government to play in advancing energy technology. While providing testing space for CCUS is essential, a tax policy that encourages investments in technology is critical to move carbon capture solutions to commercialization. With this in mind, I would like to voice our full support for the “Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage Act” (CCUS Act) to expand and extend the Section 45Q carbon sequestration tax credit.” – Jason Begger, Executive Director, Wyoming Infrastructure Authority “The introduction of the Carbon Capture Act by Congressman Conaway and several of his colleagues demonstrates the growing bicameral consensus on how CCUS technologies can help us improve our economic and energy security objectives while also safeguarding the environment and mitigating the impact of CO2 emissions. CURC believes this legislation is critical to help us reach those mutual goals, while also enabling the continued utilization of our valuable coal and fossil fuel resources.” – Shannon Angielski, Executive Director, Carbon Utilization Research Council “There is an opportunity here to make the most of bipartisan support for carbon capture technology on power plants and industrial sources.When both sides of the aisle come together, we can find solutions that work for the environment and our economy. Here is an area of consensus where we can reduce emissions and invest in energy infrastructure at the same time.” – Bob Perciasepe, president of the Center for Climate and Energy Solutions (C2ES) “This jobs, infrastructure, economic development and emissions reduction legislation is smart, bipartisan energy policy that should be enacted quickly,” said Brad Crabtree, Vice President for Fossil Energy at the Great Plains Institute and co-director of the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative (NEORI), the leading national coalition in support of carbon capture. “Chairman Conaway is to be commended for his leadership in promoting a fiscally responsible, performance-based policy that will drive private investment in technology that supports American energy production and job creation, while reducing emissions.” – Brad Crabtree, Vice President for Fossil Energy at the Great Plains Institute and co-director of the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative (NEORI)
07.21.2017	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, July 25, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence will interview Mr. Jared Kushner. This interview with Mr. Kushner is part of the Committee’s ongoing probe into the Russian active measures campaign in the 2016 election.
07.14.2017	Washington–Friday, the House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a vote of 344-81. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in support of this legislation: “This year’s NDAA begins the long and arduous process of repairing our military after the drastic cuts suffered under President Obama. This legislation prioritizes our service members, and providing a well-deserved pay raise and the readiness training and equipment they need to successfully carry out their missions. “I’m particularly pleased with several provisions included in this bill, including those that support Department of Defense (DoD) auditability. As a CPA by trade, I have been advocating for DoD audit readiness and auditability throughout my time in Congress. Today’s legislation includes three amendments I sponsored – one of which is the most stringent oversight yet – to ensure the DoD becomes fully auditable and adopts best business practices. I will continue to engage with department leaderships on the DoD’s audit progress to certify that each tax payer dollar is accounted for and being properly spent. “Also included in this legislation is my 12 Carrier Act to increase the number of aircraft carriers. Currently, our fleet is increasing its operational tempo and yet still experiencing deployment gaps as it attempts to meet our growing national security needs. A twelfth carrier will alleviate the stress our sailors have been experiencing, and put our Navy in a better position to deter conflict and protect our nation. “The NDAA is the most important obligation the House Armed Services Committee is tasked with, and we take this responsibility seriously. I am proud to sit on this committee, and even prouder to have the opportunity to support the men and women who serve our nation honorably each and every day.” ###
06.29.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) released the following statement: On Friday, June 23, the House Intelligence Committee received a letter from the Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs responding to the Committee’s June 9 letter to the White House Counsel asking the White House to tell the Committee whether any recordings, memoranda, or other documents memorializing President Trump’s conversations with former FBI Director Comey exist or ever existed – and, if they did exist, to produce copies of such materials to the Committee. The White House has responded by letter asking the Committee to refer to “President Trump’s June 22, 2017, statement regarding this matter” as its official response and quotes in full the President’s statement that was made in the form of successive tweets, in which the President stated that he has “no idea whether there are ‘tapes’ or recordings” of his conversations with James Comey and that the President “did not make” and does “not have any such recordings.” Today, the Committee has sent the White House a second letter urging the White House to appropriately and fully comply with the Committee’s June 9 request. The President’s statement on Twitter, and the White House’s letter referring to the President’s statement, were only partially responsive to the Committee’s request. By only referring to the President’s statement, the White House’s letter stops short of clarifying for the Committee whether the White House has any responsive recordings, memoranda, or other documents. Today’s letter from the Committee makes clear that should the White House not respond fully, the Committee will consider using compulsory process to ensure a satisfactory response. ###
06.29.2017	Washington–Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) joined the House of Representatives to pass two key pieces of legislation. H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act, strengthens the law against dangerous sanctuary city polices that shield criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. H.R. 3004, Kate’s Law, increases penalties for deported felons who illegally return to the United States. “These two bills take critical steps towards preventing dangerous criminals from illegally remaining in this country,” said Rep. Conaway. “Kate’s law is named after a young woman who was murdered by an illegal immigrant convicted of multiple felonies who had been deported five times. The legislation that bears her name will save future lives by keeping convicted criminals off our streets. “Sanctuary cities harboring unlawful immigrants, like the one who killed Kate Steinle, put innocent lives at risk. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act combats dangerous ‘sanctuary city’ practices that shield illegal immigrants who have committed crimes from federal immigration enforcement. Strengthening these laws will ensure that our communities, our cities, and ultimately our country, remain safe for all.”
06.28.2017	Washington–Wednesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) reaffirmed his support for the FY2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) with the following statement: “The National Defense Authorization Act is the most important responsibility the House Armed Services Committee undertakes. This bill delivers a well-deserved pay raise for our troops, builds upon key military readiness provisions, and provides infrastructure, equipment, and fleet modernizations that are desperately needed. “Included in this year’s NDAA are several key provisions, including my 12 Carrier Act. We’ve also worked for vital funding for railgun and the bill carries funding for laser weapons, which are the future of defending our national security. This NDAA also makes a significant investment in F/A-18E/F and F-35 CV aircraft, as well as the WIN-T army communications system. “I’m also glad to see our push to make the Department of Defense (DoD) auditable has been made a priority in this legislation. As a CPA by trade, I have made DoD auditability a primary focus as DoD’s audit readiness and audit deadlines are quickly approaching. “Our service members put their lives on the line every day to protect our country. It is our job to make sure they have the resources they need to successfully carry out their missions.” To watch the mark up live, please click here.
06.23.2017	Washington–Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) reintroduced H.R. 3008, the George W. Bush Childhood Home Study Act, which seeks to preserve the Midland home of the Bush family as a national landmark. “George W. Bush’s childhood home is a historic property that tells a tale of two presidents, two governors, and a first lady,” said Rep. Conaway. “The home is currently a museum that is open to the public, and my legislation takes the next step towards the home achieving the status of a national historic landmark. It’s important that we preserve this significant piece of history to ensure that future generations will have the same opportunity to get a glimpse into the lives of the members of the Bush family.” ###
06.22.2017	Washington–Wednesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement applauding the House Armed Services, Seapower and Projection Forces subcommittee on including his 12 Carrier Act into the subcommittee markup for the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act: “I am happy that my bill H.R. 941, the 12 Carrier Act, was included in today’s Seapower mark. Increasing the number of aircraft carriers from 11 to 12 is a strong move in the right direction that will empower the Navy with the tools it desperately needs to meet our national security requirements and deter conflict. Not only that, it sends a message to potential adversaries that we will not allow our decisive advantage in worldwide maritime force projection to erode. “It is encouraging to see my fellow members of the subcommittee are in agreement with my concerns about the shrinking size and capabilities of the U.S. Navy. Our armed forces still have to meet the same mission requirements even when we don’t provide the proper amount and type of equipment. For years, the Navy has been accomplishing that mission on the backs of sailors and their families.” A senior member of the House Armed Services Committee serving on the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces, Conaway first introduced the 12 Carrier Act in 2015. Earlier this year, the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN) announced its support for Conaway’s 12 Carrier Act.
06.13.2017	Washington– Tuesday, the House of Representatives voted to pass the Veterans Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage: “For years, we saw the Veterans Administration (VA) fail the service men and women who fought so hard for our freedom and safety. Today, with the Veterans Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, we are taking further action towards a more accountable, veteran-centered VA. “This legislation creates a new, streamlined process to hold any poorly performing VA employee accountable for their work product, while still protecting their rights to due process. It also expands protections for whistleblowers who shine light on bad practices at the VA, to safeguard their jobs from retaliatory actions. “Because the Senate has also passed this legislation, it will now head to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. We’ve passed similar legislation previously, but the VA Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act builds on that work and strengthens the laws in place. Our veterans deserve more than they’ve been getting from the VA, and this is a step in the right direction to ensuring that our veterans will not go without the care they have earned.” ###
06.08.2017	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage of the Financial CHOICE Act: “The Dodd-Frank Act created a staggering 27,669 new regulations. Wall Street’s big banks can afford the overwhelming costs of compliance, but community banks, small businesses, and farmers and ranchers are struggling to hire new employees, invest in their futures, or get the loans they need to expand. The CHOICE Act delivers the regulatory relief Main Street needs, while increasing accountability and transparency within larger financial institutions. “The CHOICE Act ends taxpayer bailouts, holding Wall Street accountable for its own actions. It also cuts the deficit by $24 billion, and reduces the size of the bureaucracy. It’s time government stops working for a select few, and starts working for the financial future of every American.”
06.07.2017	Washington– Wednesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement applauding the delivery of the Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier to the U.S. Navy: “The successful delivery of the first in class Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier is a terrific step in the right direction for the United States seapower mission of providing safe seas for the U.S. and our allies. This new and evolved carrier and class maximizes cost, efficiency, and tax payer dollars. Its new and advanced systems, coupled with the aircraft coming online in the near future, will increase the carrier’s value for security. “As we celebrate the Ford carrier delivery, it’s important to note that there is still room for improvement within the U.S. Navy’s fleet. Within the last few months, the United States Navy’s Force Structure Assessment renewed calls for a 12th operational aircraft carrier. I agree with their determination, and have introduced the 12 Carrier Act to meet our increasing security needs. Maintaining 12 operational aircraft carriers will enable the Navy to provide the continuous presence necessary without overworking our ships or sailors.” A senior member of the House Armed Services Committee serving on the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces, Conaway first introduced the 12 Carrier Act in 2015. Earlier this year, the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN) announced its support for Conaway’s 12 Carrier Act. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As part of the House Intelligence Committee’s ongoing investigation into potential Russian interference in the 2016 elections, Reps. Mike Conaway and Adam Schiff sent a letter Wednesday night requesting additional documents from the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) related to FBI’s ongoing counterintelligence investigation, including relevant documents related to the dismissal of Mr. Comey as FBI Director or memorializing conversations between the President and Mr. Comey. Reps. Conaway and Schiff stressed the importance of continuing this investigation in a thorough and nonpartisan manner, and reaffirmed their commitment to work with the Federal Bureau of Investigation as their respective investigations progress. ###
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – On Tuesday, May 23, former Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, John Brennan, will appear in open session starting at 10 a.m. in HVC-210, and then afterwards in closed session, to answer questions related to Russian active measures during the 2016 election campaign. As part of this investigation, Representatives Conaway and Schiff will continue to seek witness testimony and relevant documents, and they will continue to lead an in-depth review of intelligence reports, government records, and witness-provided material. Media wishing to attend this hearing must be credentialed through the appropriate Congressional Media Gallery. Credentialed media will be allowed inside the hearing room from 9:15 am on a first come, first served basis. ###
05.11.2017	“The House Intelligence Committee is determined to move forward with its Russia investigation in a thorough and nonpartisan fashion. As a part of our responsibilities, we will be conducting rigorous oversight to ensure that the FBI's own investigation is not impeded or interfered with in any way." ###
05.04.2017	Washington, D.C.– Today, the House of Representatives voted to repeal Obamacare and repair the health care system by passing the American Health Care Act. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon passage: “Obamacare was full of broken promises. Then-President Obama told the American people time and time again, ‘If you like your doctor you can keep your doctor; if you like your health insurance you can keep your health insurance.’The American people learned very quickly that under Obamacare, they would not be able to keep their doctor, or their health insurance. In fact, the cost of premiums rose, while access to quality health care fell. “Today, we took the first step towards fulfilling our promise to the American people: to repeal Obamacare, and repair the broken health care system. The American Health Care Act contained all the relief the American people were asking for. Individuals with pre-existing conditions are protected and will receive quality coverage. Young people will be able to remain on their family plan until the age of 26. We’ve strengthened Medicaid, and most importantly, we’ve put individuals and their doctors back in control of their own health care decisions. “The American Health Care Act is the answer that our fractured health care system needs. The time is now for the Senate to act, so President Trump can sign the American Health Care Act into law and rid our nation of the disastrous Obamacare once and for all.” ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence held a closed hearing with FBI Director James Comey and National Security Agency Director Admiral Michael Rogers. Reps. Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Adam Schiff (D-CA) released this statement following the hearing: “Today's hearing provided our committee members with a valuable opportunity to ask follow up questions from the open hearing we convened with Directors Comey and Rogers a month ago. We remain committed to working with the FBI as they continue their investigation to ensure that no stone is unturned. We are currently sending out invitations for witnesses to testify and requests for pertinent documents, and look forward to the next steps of this investigation, including witness interviews and an open hearing with Sally Yates, James Clapper, and John Brennan.” ###
05.02.2017	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement Wednesday upon passage of H.R. 244, The Consolidated Appropriations Act: “This funding bill keeps our government open and running through FY2017, which is a win for our country. It increases military spending, taking a step towards rebuilding the strength and readiness of our military. Border security is also a priority in this legislation, which includes an additional $1.5 billion for critical infrastructure, innovative technology, and agents at the border. H.R. 244 is a strong, pro-life bill. It does not include any funding directed to Planned Parenthood, and National Right to Life has come out in support of this bill. “The Environmental Protection Agency’s budget and staffing levels have been cut down to pre-Obama levels. There is no new money for Obamacare in this legislation. It includes provisions to protect the 2nd Amendment, and it freezes funding for the Internal Revenue Service below the 2008 level. “Like all legislation, this bill is not perfect. But President Trump and Speaker Ryan have delivered a starting point for fundamentally reforming the way we allocate government spending. Coupled with Republican decision makers in the Administration and Agencies in charge of implementation, we will continue to promote the conservative principles our country needs. I look forward to seeing this bill signed into law, and getting to work on the FY2018 budget and appropriations process to continue moving in the right direction.” ###
04.06.2017	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released this statement following the Speaker’s announcement that Rep. Conaway would be taking the lead on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence’s Russia investigation: “I have been a member of the House Intelligence Committee for over eight years now, and it is a responsibility I take with the utmost seriousness. My profession as a CPA and auditor has taught me to be objective and methodical, and that is how I intend to help lead this investigation. I am confident that Ranking Member Schiff and I will be able to work together to conduct an effective, bipartisan investigation. “I must emphasize that this is a temporary position- Chairman Nunes has my full support, and I am confident these charges levied by outside activists will be proven false. I thank Speaker Ryan and Chairman Nunes for entrusting me, along with Representatives Rooney and Gowdy, with this matter of critical importance to our national security.” ###
03.29.2017	Washington– Wednesday, the Association of the United States Navy (AUSN) announced its support for Congressman Mike Conaway’s 12 Carrier Act. This legislation, which Congressman Conaway first introduced in 2015, increases the mandated number of operational aircraft carriers in the U.S. Navy fleet from 11 to 12. The letter reads, in part, “On behalf of the Association of the United States Navy, we would like to pledge our support for H.R. 941, the 12 Carrier Act. The aircraft carrier can fulfill the Navy’s core missions of forward presence, sea control, ensuring safe sea-lanes, and power projection as well as providing flexibility and versatility to execute a wide range of additional missions. Despite the requirement to maintain an aircraft carrier strike group in both the United States Central Command and United States Pacific Command, the Navy has… developed significant carrier gaps in these critical areas.” “ U.S. Naval strategy relies on aircraft carriers to maintain peace while providing the advanced security the U.S. is dependent on,” said Congressman Conaway. “At a House Armed Services Committee hearing two years ago, it became evident that the U.S. Navy will not have the capabilities to provide ‘continuous’ aircraft carrier presence in both the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific until fiscal year 2021. Presently, maintenance and deployment gaps are becoming the new normal as the operational tempo of our current fleet rapidly increases. By adding a twelfth operational carrier to our fleet, as this bill does, we will be able to match our increasing security needs with the proper resources.” Congressman Conaway, a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, serves on the Subcommittee on Seapower and Projection Forces. ###
03.24.2017	Washington– Friday, a vote was scheduled on the American Health Care Act. Congress Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement: “After seven years of promising the American people that we would repeal and replace Obamacare, we got very close but ultimately came up short. Throughout the course of the day, it became clear that there was still not a consensus and President Trump asked Speaker Ryan to delay any further work on this legislation. The fact that we couldn’t get there shows just how difficult this process is. “Our country deserves a health care system that does not lead with bureaucratic mandates and costly penalties, but rather with empowering families and individuals to make the health care choices that work best for them. Obamacare is still a deeply flawed law, and while I am extremely disappointed that we were not able to repeal Obamacare today, this is certainly not the end of the conversation.”
03.16.2017	Washington– Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted to pass H.R. 1181, the Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act. This bill, which Congressman Conaway cosponsored, passed the House 240-175. “Under current law, veterans who receive help navigating their benefits from a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) fiduciary are automatically labeled as ‘mentally defective’ in the VA system. This incorrect label wrongly places them in the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), preventing the very men and women who fought for our freedom from exercising their constitutional right to bear arms,” said Congressman Conaway. “The Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act will ensure that veterans are able to take advantage of the services offered by the VA, without fear of bureaucratic overreach. We are able to make an easy fix with this legislation, while still retaining the appropriate safeguards for those who truly need assistance. No veteran should ever be wrongfully denied the constitutional rights they sacrificed so much to protect.” Earlier today, Congressman Conaway spoke on the House Floor in favor of H.R. 1181. You can view his remarks by clicking here. ###
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted to pass H.R. 998, the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act of 2017. This bill, which establishes a commission to identify regulations that are ineffective and should be immediately repealed, passed the House of Representatives 240-185. Congressman Conaway released the following statement upon passage: “The SCRUB Act provides us with an independent review process to identify outdated and overly burdensome regulations, and helps the repeal of these regulations move forward. For the last 140 years, the federal government has allowed new regulations to be piled on as inane, archaic regulations remain in place by default, because agencies have been unwilling to peel back the layers of rules that their predecessors have put in place. The Retrospective Regulatory Review Commission’s sole purpose will be to sift through the more than one million regulatory restrictions that are currently in place, and make recommendations for repeals. This Commission is a welcome change to rid our nation of many of the absurd, job-killing regulations that were added during the eight years of Barack Obama’s presidency.”
02.16.2017	Washington, D.C.–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted to protect Title X grant funding for states who choose to not offer funding for abortion providers, such as Planned Parenthood. This legislation, H.J. Res 43, passed the House of Representatives 230-188. “The regulation that we voted to repeal today was one of President Obama’s last ditch efforts to supersede state law and force taxpayer funded abortions,” said Congressman Conaway. “Individual states have always had the authority to set guidelines for qualifications and distribute Title X grants to health clinics providing family planning services to low income women. President Obama’s backwards rule was a strong-arm attempt to force states into funding abortion providers, such as Planned Parenthood, or risk losing all funding to the community health clinics who offer invaluable services to low income families. This rule was a lose-lose for life and for states’ rights, and I’m glad to see the House overwhelmingly vote to reverse this harmful Obama-era regulation.” ###
02.03.2017	Washington, D.C.–This week, Congress employed the Congressional Review Act to roll back 5 costly regulations implemented by the Obama Administration. Three of these regulations were written to hurt the energy industry, one took aim at the 2nd amendment, and one would have discouraged competition for federal contracts. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement upon House passage of all five bills: “Under the Obama Administration, burdensome overregulation became the new normal. One of the first orders of business under President Trump is to roll back the most harmful and unconstitutional regulations, including the BLM Methane Rule, the Stream Protection Rule, the SEC Resource Extraction Rule, the Social Security Administration’s implementation of amendments to the NICS, and the DOD, GSA, and NASA acquisition regulations. “These regulations were an atrocious abuse of executive power by President Obama, each with astronomical costs of compliance. And like many Obama Administration regulations, the BLM Methane rule, the SEC Resource Extraction Rule, and the Stream Protection Rule were designed to drive the coal, oil, and gas industries out of business.By using the Congressional Review Act to eliminate these destructive regulations, we can ensure that the same rule cannot be issued in the future- protecting Americans from overzealous rulemaking indefinitely.” The Congressional Review Act establishes special congressional procedures for disapproving of regulatory actions issued by federal agencies. Now, with a Republican President, these pieces of legislation can be signed into law. The five regulations that the House voted to overturn this week are: H.J. Res. 38 – Disapproving Stream Protection Rule · The Obama Administration’s Steam Protection Rule was designed to limit coal mining by implementing duplicative, unnecessary regulations with an annual compliance cost of $52 million. H.J. Res. 36 – Disapproving BLM Methane Rule · Methane can be captured and either piped out for other productive uses, or it can be burned off. The Obama Administration would not approve permits for pipeline construction, and the BLM Methane rule would make it illegal to burn the Methane off. This rule leaves no options for Methane removal, making it impossible for the oil and gas industry to do business. H.J. Res 41 – Disapproving SEC Resource Extraction Rule · Section 1504 of the Dodd-Frank Act mandated that the SEC to create new reporting requirements for public companies involved in the oil, natural gas, or mineral development industries. · This rule, which is outside the scope of the SEC’s mission, could cost as much as $591 million and would give foreign companies an edge over American companies. H.J. Res. 40 – Disapproving SSA Implementation of NICS Improvement Amendments · Under President Obama, the Social Security Administration finalized a rule that would require the agency to send the names of certain Social Security Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income recipients to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). · This rule unconstitutionally limits the 2nd Amendment rights of Americans who receive certain financial benefits and do not manage their own financial affairs. H.J. Res 37 – Disapproving DOD, GSA, and NASA acquisition regulations · This rule creates a duplicative process for hiring federal contractors- especially impacting small businesses who don’t have the resources that larger companies have. · This rule costs contractors and subcontractors over $400 million to comply, and increases the bureaucratic risks that contractors face when entering into contracts with the federal government. ###
01.25.2017	Washington – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) along with Reps. Poe (R-TX), Peters (D-CA), Bera (D-CA), Calvert (R-CA), and Speier (D-CA) introduced H.R. 620, The Bipartisan ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017. This legislation will curb frivolous lawsuits filed by cash-hungry attorneys and plaintiffs that abuse the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). “The Americans with Disabilities Act has made tremendous progress in increasing accessibility. Like so many good things, however, bad actors are taking advantage of ADA by filing frivolous lawsuits that have disastrous unintended consequences on local, small businesses,” said Congressman Mike Conway. “Predatory attorneys who often times don’t even live in the same state are using Google Earth to find minor ADA violations, and slapping devastating lawsuits on local small businesses who thought they were in compliance with the law without giving them an opportunity to fix the infraction. This practice helps no one but lawyers looking to make a quick buck, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that this legislation becomes law.” “The ADA is a vital law that is meant to make American businesses more accessible to the disabled. But the integrity of this important law is being threatened. The vast majority of small businesses in America strive to serve their customers to the best of their ability – relying on the ADA as another tool to help ensure that costumers with disabilities can enjoy the services that they provide,” said Congressman Poe. “Most of these business owners believe that they are in compliance with the ADA and have even passed local and state inspections. However, despite their best attempts, certain attorneys and their pool of serial plaintiffs troll for minor, easily correctable ADA infractions so they can file a lawsuit and make some cash. There is a now whole industry made up of people who prey on small business owners and file unnecessary abusive lawsuits that abuse both the ADA and the business owners. This bill will change that by requiring that the business owners have time to fix what is allegedly broken. If they fail to correct the infractions the plaintiff retains all of their rights to pursue legal action. This legislation restores the purpose of the ADA: to provide access and accommodation to disabled Americans, not to fatten the wallets of attorneys.” "The goal of the Americans with Disabilities Act is to provide access for the disabled – it’s not to give unscrupulous trial lawyers the opportunity to abuse small businesses,” said Rep. Calvert. “California has become ground zero for abusive ADA lawsuits and I have heard from many of our job creators who have fallen victim to abusive ADA lawsuits that are not aimed at improving access for the disabled. Protecting small businesses from abusive lawsuits and ensuring disabled Americans have adequate access are not mutually exclusive goals.” "The Americans with Disabilities Act created a necessary and commonsense framework to help remove barriers and ensure every American has access to public and private spaces," said Rep. Peters. "However, unlike other federal laws, when businesses are out of compliance with ADA rules, there is no grace period for them to fix problems with their properties. As a result, well-intentioned small business owners are targeted with predatory lawsuits that don't allow them to make changes to their stores or workspaces before they get buried with legal fees. This bipartisan bill gives businesses time to make necessary changes before they are subject to litigation. By reducing the burden on well-intentioned small business owners, we can focus on holding bad actors accountable and small business owners can spend money improving access instead of on legal fees." Supporting Groups: American Hotel and Lodging Association, American Resort Development Association, Asian American Hotel Owners Association, Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) International, CCIM Institute, Institute of Real Estate Management, International Council of Shopping Centers, International Franchise Association, NAIOP, the Commercial Real Estate Development Association, National Apartment Association, National Association of REALTORS®, National Association of Theatre Owners, National Council of Chain Restaurants, National Federation of Independent Business, National Multifamily Housing Council, National Restaurant Association, NATSO, Representing America's Travel Plazas and Truck Stops, Retail Industry Leaders Association, U.S. Chamber of Commerce. ###
01.24.2017	Washington– Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Congressman Brad Wenstrup (R-OH) introduced H.R. 629, the Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act. Under current law, veterans who receive help navigating their benefits from a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) fiduciary are automatically labeled as “mentally defective” in the VA system. This incorrect label wrongly places them in the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), denying veterans their Second Amendment rights. The full text of the legislation is available here. “This bureaucratic failure is preventing the very men and women who fought for our freedom from exercising their constitutional right to bear arms,” said Congressman Conaway. “The Veterans 2nd Amendment Protection Act will ensure that veterans are able to take advantage of the services offered by the VA, without fear of being mislabeled as ‘mentally defective.’ This is a critical lapse in the system for veterans, but we are able to fix it with this legislation while still retaining the appropriate safeguards for those who truly need assistance. I look forward to working with my colleague Congressman Wenstrup to ensure that no veteran is wrongfully denied the constitutional rights they sacrificed so much to protect.” “For the men and women who have worn the uniform of this country to be denied the very constitutional freedoms that they fought for is unconscionable,” said Congressman Wenstrup. “Veterans shouldn’t be forced to choose between utilizing the resources they’ve earned at the VA and exercising their Second Amendment rights. As a veteran myself, I am honored to work with my colleague, Congressman Conaway, to ensure no veteran is denied their constitutional rights due to bureaucratic overreach.” ###
01.24.2017	Washington – Tuesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) reintroduced the bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act, which opposes and new taxes or fees for music played on local radio stations. The resolution has 113 additional original cosponsors. “Communities rely on local radio stations for news, weather updates, and other emergency alerts. A proposed ‘performance tax’ on local radio stations has the potential to put the future of these stations in jeopardy,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “It is great to see so many of my House colleagues joining Rep. Green and I in support of our local radio stations and their listeners.” “I am proud to join Rep. Conaway and our colleagues in protecting free over-the-air broadcasting,” said Rep. Gene Green. “The Local Radio Freedom Act ensures that people’s access to public safety information, news, weather, or other entertainment is kept whole and that a new system of fees is not imposed on local radio stations.” This resolution is nearly identical to H. Con. Res. 17, which Reps. Conaway and Green introduced in the 114th Congress. The original cosponsors are: Reps. Abraham, Allen, Amodei, Babin, Banks, Barr, Beutler, Bilirakis, Sanford Bishop, Blum, Bordallo, Bost, Bridenstine, Bucshon, Butterfield, Calvert, Carson, Castor, Chabot, Cole, Chris Collins, Comer, Cook, Cramer, Crawford, Davis, DeFazio, Delaney, Dingell, John Duncan, Ellison, Emmer, Farenthold, Flores, Foxx, Gallagher, Gibbs, Al Green, Grothman, Guthrie, Frelinghuysen, Hartzler, French Hill, Hudson, Hultgren, Evan Jenkins, Lynn Jenkins, Bill Johnson, Jordan, Joyce, Kaptur, Keating, Kilmer, Kinzinger, Kuster, LaHood, LaMalfa, Lance, Latta, LoBiondo, Loebsack, Lucas, Luetkemeyer, Lujan Grisham, Lynch, Long, Massie, McKinley, Messer, Mooney, Mullin, Noem, O’Rourke, Palazzo, Pallone, Pascrell, Pearce, Pittenger, Poe, Radewagen, Hal Rogers, Mike Rogers, Rokita, Rouzer, Russell, Tim Ryan, Schrader, Schweikert, David Scott, Sewell, Shimkus, Adrian Smith, Chris Smith, Stefanik, Stivers, Stewart, Glenn Thompson, Tiberi, Turner, Upton, Valadao, Veasey, Wagner, Walden, Walorski, Walz, Weber, Westerman, Wilson (FL), Wilson (SC), Womack, Yoder, and Don Young. ###
01.13.2017	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted for the Concurrent Resolution on the Budget for FY 2017, which includes the legislative pathway to repealing Obamacare. Congressman Conaway released the following statement upon passage: “There is no question that Obamacare was built on broken promises to the American people.Today’s vote is a critical first step towards repealing President Obama’s signature healthcare law, as it will allow the Senate to repeal Obamacare without the risk of Democrats filibustering the vote. It’s important to note that as we repeal Obamacare, we will be working on a plan for a 21st century healthcare system. Our plan will be patient-centered, making healthcare available to all in a way that leaves individuals and families in charge of their own healthcare decisions, rather than the government. While this vote is just the first step towards repealing Obamacare, it is a significant step towards moving our nation forward from President Obama’s disastrous healthcare law.”
01.12.2017	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA)introduced a bill that would pave a path forward for storage of the nation’s nuclear waste. The Interim Consolidated Storage Act would allow the Department of Energy to use interest from the National Nuclear Fund to contract temporary storage facilities for spent nuclear fuel and could have the federal government begin collecting waste from nuclear facilities across the country in as little as 5 years. Congressman Mike Conaway: “Nuclear waste should be stored with the utmost care, but currently, licensed facilities such as Waste Control Specialists in Andrews, Texas, are not able to serve as interim nuclear waste storage sites due to an outdated law and bureaucratic inefficiencies. As a result, nuclear utility plants currently have no choice but to store their waste on site. This legislation allows the Department of Energy to cut through the red tape and enter into contracts with these licensed facilities, such as the one in Andrews, ensuring that nuclear waste will be properly stored until a permanent site is established.” Congressman Darrell Issa: “The Interim Consolidated Storage Act is a great solution that allows us to break through past years of political gridlock to get this waste out of our communities and into safe, secure sites that are both well-equipped and want to store it. Maintaining the status quo isn’t an option. Until we can get temporary and – ideally – permanent storage facilities open, nuclear waste will remain on-site more than 120 different sites nationwide. In my district, the San Onofre Nuclear Generation Station houses more than 3.6 million pounds of nuclear material right on the coast, along a fault line, on one of the largest U.S. military bases, in the heart of one of our most densely populated communities. Allowing it to stay there indefinitely is only asking for trouble. This is just one of hundreds of examples of similar sites nationwide. This bill advances a creative solution to this problem and is a reasonable plan to get the waste moved quickly and securely.” ###
01.11.2017	Washington–Tuesday, a broad bipartisan coalition led by Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) sent a letter to the members of the Senate Armed Services Committee calling for a continued commitment to Department of Defense (DoD) auditability throughout the confirmation process of executive branch nominees. The letter reads, in part: “DoD leaders confront a daily multitude of issues critical to our national defense. As the transition to the new administration takes place, we are concerned audit efforts may become minimized, or worse, relapse into insignificance. Audit work is cumulative by nature. As many of us have expressed before, the fragile audit progress made in recent years could be endangered if incoming leadership fails to make audit a priority. With a department of its size, nothing less than sustained, intense focus is necessary to carry audit across the finish line. With this in mind, we ask you to guarantee every nominee (see accompanying annex) that comes before you this year – civilian and uniformed, whether in hearing format or otherwise – commits to either leading, supporting, or maintaining auditability as a top priority. Civilian and uniform alike must truly understand the importance their continued vocalization and prioritization plays in advancing audit, if they are confirmed. To read the letter in its entirety, please click here. Rep. Conaway, a CPA by trade, has been a strong advocate for Department of Defense auditability throughout his time in Congress. As a senior member of the House Armed Services Committee, overseeing the DoD’s audit has been a primary focus for Rep. Conaway. As two important audit deadlines near – one later this year and one in 2019 – Rep. Conaway has continued to call for a commitment from those confirmed to the DoD to ensure the department complies with audit efforts, as they will be in office when these deadlines occur. ###
05.19.2016	Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statementupon House passage of H.R. 4909, the 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA): “The 2017 NDAA is absolutely critical to our national security. Most importantly, it provides our men and women in uniform with the resources they need to properly execute their missions to protect the United States of America in an increasingly unstable world. “President Obama is already following last year’s veto of the 2016 NDAA with a veto threat for this year’s bill.Our troops deserve our full, bipartisan support, even in the midst of an election year. I sincerely hope President Obama changes his mind, and chooses the right path to taking care of the men and women who selflessly sacrifice in order to keep our nation safe.” Congressman Conaway sponsored an amendment to streamline the application process for veterans applying to certain border patrol jobs within Customs and Border Protection, which was included in the 2017 NDAA when it passed out of the Armed Services Committee. More information about the amendment can be found here.
04.28.2016	Washington–Wednesday, the House Armed Services Committee unanimously passed an amendment sponsored by Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) that would streamline the application process for veterans applying to certain border patrol jobs within Customs and Border Protection (CBP). “Under current law, a small group of veterans who have honorably served our nation in the military and wish to continue their service with CBP are forced to comply with a lengthy and redundant screening process,” said Rep. Conaway. “This amendment would allow the CBP Commissioner to waive the polygraph requirement for veterans who served as unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) pilots and hold current and appropriate high level security clearances. Granting polygraph waiver authority has the potential to significantly speed up the hiring of UAV pilots, preventing an employment gap for veterans who can’t afford to spend months unemployed. It also ensures more robust border protection by increasing the number of UAV pilots within CBP. “This fix strengthens our border security, reduces costs by streamlining the CBP hiring process, and retains the investment that the U.S. Government has made in training UAV pilots. It was terrific to see such widespread support for this amendment, and I look forward to its continued support on the House Floor.”
02.23.2016	Washington–Tuesday morning, President Obama announced his latest plan to close Guantanamo Bay. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in response: “The President has laid out an incredibly irresponsible plan to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay, sacrificing the safety and security of American citizens in pursuit of his personal legacy. Under President Obama’s plan, terrorists currently detained at Guantanamo Bay will be moved to a yet-to-be-determined facility within the United States- essentially, these terrorists could be moved to any number of locations throughout our communities. After seven years of failing to provide any convincing arguments for closing Guantanamo Bay, the President’s desperation is painfully apparent in his final year in office. It is absolutely unacceptable to endanger our national security by allowing any terrorists on American soil- my colleagues and I will simply not allow it.”
02.11.2016	Washington–Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3442, the Debt Management and Fiscal Responsibility Act. This legislation establishes a new debt limit framework that enhances accountability, reduces disruptive risk, and incorporates debt reduction solutions. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement of support upon passage: “Just like in a household, it is irresponsible as a nation to just sit back and take on debt without a plan to tackle the debt you’ve already accumulated. Our growing national debt poses the threat of uncertainty to our country, and this legislation clearly outlines a new debt limit framework to ensure that the debt limit is not increased overnight just because the President asks for it. President Obama’s current approach to our national debt is to just spend and watch it grow, without an ounce of accountability. “As we pass this legislation today, I also call upon my colleagues to rein in unnecessary federal spending. Our national debt is currently $19 trillion and rising, and wasteful spending will only increase that number. As we begin the appropriations process, Congress needs to reevaluate its priorities and act responsibly in the best interest of our children, our grandchildren, and all the generations that will come after.” The passage of the Debt Management and Fiscal Responsibility Act follows the Default Prevention Act, which passed the House last fall. Just as the name suggests, the Default Prevention Act protects our country from defaulting on our loans. This legislation, which is awaiting approval in the Senate, is critical to ensuring that the full faith and credit of the United States is not harmed. ###
02.09.2016	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s last budget, which was released today: “President Obama’s final budget proposal is full of lofty, liberal ideals without an ounce of practicality. In addition to sentencing future generations of Americans to higher taxes and mounting debt, the Obama Administration’s budget threatens to undermine an already weak U.S. economy by dealing a severe blow to America’s farmers and ranchers who have already suffered a 56 percent drop in net farm income over the past two years. “In addition to harming our nation’s farmers and ranchers, the President’s budget proposal includes a $10 per barrel ‘fee’ on oil to pay for his radical climate change agenda. The Congressional Research Service has already found that this tax could slow economic growth, yet another move by the Obama Administration that will cripple our nation. "President Obama has made his priorities very clear, and those don’t include getting our country back on track. This final budget proposal again reflects the agenda of a president who is out of touch with the everyday concerns and lives of working families in America.” ###
02.05.2016	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s proposal to charge a $10 per barrel “fee” on all oil produced in this country: “Under no circumstances will I let President Obama put his unrealistic, unnecessary, and costly climate change agenda above hardworking Americans. This proposed ‘fee’ is just yet another tax that will do nothing but raise prices for West Texas. The President is spending his final year in office proposing as many last-ditch radical policies as he possibly can, and Republicans in the House simply won’t allow it. This ludicrous proposal is dead on arrival.” ##
02.04.2016	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) honored the life of Phil Neighbors before the House of Representatives. Below are Congressman Conaway’s remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and service of Phil Neighbors. Phil was a pillar in the San Angelo community, and I had the pleasure of working with him frequently over the last decade. Phil dedicated his life to three things: to God, his family, and his community. He and his wife, Susan, had two children together, and four grandchildren. It wasn’t uncommon for Phil to run straight to a city event from his grandsons’ ball games – he seemed to make time for everyone while placing the truly important things in life first. Phil was deeply ingrained in Angelo. A graduate of Angelo State University, he led the San Angelo Chamber of Commerce for the last 10 years. In this role, he strengthened the community and helped Angelo become a better place to live and raise a family. He dedicated his life to this calling, taking on many duties, none of which were too small or large, for the betterment of the community. One example was the bridge he helped build between the Goodfellow Air Force Base and the Angelo community. He established a strong and lasting bond for the betterment of both. He embraced our service-members, and was always willing to support them and our military in any way that he could. As a deacon in the Baptist church, Phil led the church’s college program and many mission trips to Mexico. He was a selfless servant, a trait that extended beyond the city, state, and country’s borders. Everyone felt and knew Phil’s warmness and thoughtfulness of others. His guidance and quiet diligence was reassuring to those around him and helped shape a community that is exemplary in Texas and the nation. Phil had no small part in creating such a community. We lost Phil far too soon, just days after his 64th birthday. His loss will be felt across the community and state, and his service will not be forgotten. Please join me in remembering and celebrating the extraordinary life of our friend Phil Neighbors. ###
02.02.2016	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted with the majority of House Republicans to override the President’s veto on theRestoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. Unfortunately, too many Democrats chose to side with the President and the effort to override the veto did not meet the minimum threshold. Congressman Mike Conaway released the following statement after the vote: “It is truly unfortunate that 183 Democrats chose to side with the President in favor of partisan politics instead of doing what is best for the American people. This bill, which would essentially repeal Obamacare, and prevent Planned Parenthood from receiving any federal funding, was passed by both the House of Representatives and the Senate at the start of the year. Today’s vote shows exactly who is with President Obama on these issues, and who is strong enough to stand up to his overreach for the betterment of the American healthcare system and unborn children everywhere. “While our efforts through today’s vote did not prevail, this is not the end of our battle. Republicans promised the American people that we would not let up, and we will keep the fight going until we can pass this legislation with a President in the White House who will listen to the voices of the American people.” ###
01.12.2016	Washington–Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass legislation that strengthens U.S. sanctions against North Korea. H.R. 757, the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act, targets financial institutions who do business with North Korea, helps protect the U.S. from North Korean cyber-attacks, and requires enhanced inspection of any ships or aircraft carrying any North Korean cargo. “North Korea continues to threaten the United States and our allies,” said Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11). “Just last week, North Korea claimed to have tested a hydrogen bomb. This legislation is critical to both preventing North Korea’s weapons program from growing as well as blocking financial institutions from conducting business with North Korea. This legislation represents a Republican solution to yet another foreign policy failure on the part of President Obama. Of the multiple weapons of mass destruction detonated by North Korea, all but one have come during President Obama’s tenure. Instead of acting to ensure our safety, the President has chosen to do nothing, letting North Korea blatantly advance nuclear weapons and the delivery systems required to strike the U.S. “This legislation passed the House with near unanimous support, including nearly all of the President’s own party, underscoring the importance of strengthening and enforcing tougher sanctions on North Korea.” ###
01.12.2016	Washington–Tonight, President Obama delivered his final State of the Union Address to a Joint Session of Congress. Congressman Mike Conaway released the following statement in response to the President’s address: “Unsurprisingly, President Obama’s vision of 'change' for the last year of his failed presidency is new regulations, costly social programs, and more big government policies infringing on every aspect of our lives. The President is doing everything he can to pad his inadequate ‘legacy’ through his last acts this year. Throughout his speech tonight and his actions over the last seven years, his blatant disregard for our Constitution is crystal clear.It is absolutely apparent that he has no desire to act on behalf of the American people- he would much rather act unilaterally, without any concern for the millions of lives he is negatively impacting. “It is my hope that Congress will band together to prevent the President from causing further irreparable harm to our nation. Soon, we will vote to override the President’s veto on legislation to repeal Obamacare and completely defund Planned Parenthood. This vote will give the American people a clear sight into those who support the President, and those who are taking a stand against our failing health insurance system and the illegal harvest and sale of fetal tissue by Planned Parenthood. “The President’s empty rhetoric is simply a sign that he is flailing for relevancy in his last year in office. Unfortunately for the President, he will be remembered instead for one of the slowest economic recoveries in history, his failed foreign policies that have left our nation more vulnerable, and the disastrous implementation of a terrible healthcare system.” ###
01.06.2016	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted with the majority of House Republicans to pass the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act of 2015. Congressman Conaway released the following statement upon passage: “The House of Representatives has voted over 60 times to repeal Obamacare, but this piece of legislation is the first that has passed the Senate and will be sent to the President’s desk. Senate Democrats have been able to block all votes to defund Obamacare in the Senate up until this point, but thanks to the budget reconciliation tool, they are not able to hold the American people hostage with a filibuster any longer. “In addition to eliminating the employer and individual healthcare mandates, repealing all Obamacare taxes, and abolishing the Obamacare trust fund, this bill also entirely defunds Planned Parenthood. Last summer, we saw the atrocities taking place at Planned Parenthood clinics across this nation. The investigation into Planned Parenthood’s illegal activities continues, and those responsible will ultimately answer for their actions in a court of law. Now, it is critical that Planned Parenthood does not receive a single cent of taxpayer funds. “Since Republicans took control of the Senate last year, we promised that we would do everything in our power to reverse the President’s radical agenda that has only inflicted harm upon the people of this nation. Instead of a government run healthcare system, we need to put patients first and empower individuals to make their own healthcare decisions. Instead of reckless spending, our nation needs legislation like this- legislation that reduces our deficit by $516 billion over the next ten years. “It’s now up to President Obama to sign this legislation and put our country back on the right path.And if he vetoes this bill, we will pass this legislation again, with a President in the White House who will listen to the will of the American people.” ###
01.05.2016	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement on the President’s executive action on gun control: “Through this latest executive order, the President has once again shown his blatant disregard for the will of the American people and our constitutional right to bear arms. President Obama dictated from his bully pulpit today with concern only for his political agenda, not the people he claims to want to help. The President has yet again exhibited his refusal to work with Congress, choosing instead to make radical, unilateral decisions. Law-abiding gun owners should not be punished because of President Obama’s eagerness to impose his liberal ideals on our nation.” Following the President’s announcement, Congressman Conaway joined Congressman Marlin Stutzman (IN-3) to introduce the Separation of Powers Restoration and Second Amendment Protection Act. Under this bill, any action that violates the Second Amendment will have “no force or effect.” Fellow Texan Rep. John Culberson, chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee that oversees the Department of Justice, sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch to inform her that Congress will not fund any measure that in any way violates the Second Amendment. Congressman Conaway has vowed to fully support Chairman Culberson’s efforts. ###
12.18.2015	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway voted to lift the decades old oil export ban, repeal the harmful Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) regulation, provide for our national defense, and block Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) overreach. These provisions, and the many others in the 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill, passed the House of Representatives with overwhelming Republican support. The Senate passed this bill shortly after the House of Representatives did. “The House of Representatives has voted multiple times to lift the antiquated oil export ban, and with each vote, we’ve gained more support and momentum for this critical issue. The 11th Congressional District of Texas will benefit immensely from the economic growth and job creation that will stem from allowing crude oil exports. Thanks to the hard work of my colleagues and all those who made their voice heard on this important matter, we finally saw the Senate vote to lift the oil export ban and the President is expected sign this bill into law, improving our nation’s economy and increasing our national security,” said Rep. Conaway. “With this legislation, we helped negate the drastic cuts President Obama has made to the military. It is vital that we provide for our national defense by ensuring that our men and women in uniform have the resources they need to be successful, and rolling back the damaging cuts from this President was an important first step. “In addition, this bill repeals COOL for beef and pork products, helping the United States avoid over $1 billion in annual retaliatory fees. The COOL regulation is a violation of our trade commitments, making this repeal critical to the future of our trading relationships. This bill contains no funding for new or expanded EPA programs, and keeps the agency at its lowest funding levels since before President Obama took office. The EPA has meddled in far too many communities and businesses, stunting economic growth and job creation. This bill is a great step towards reining in EPA overreach. “In light of recent terror attacks, this legislation also tightened the visa waiver program for individuals who have visited high risk nations, such as Syria, Iraq, Iran, or Sudan since 2011. By using a higher standard for visa waivers, we are reducing the hazard of high risk individuals entering the United States. “America needs the security of a strong national defense and a growing economy.It is because of these programs and many more that I and the majority of Republicans in the House of Representatives voted for this legislation, and look forward to the President signing it into law.” ###
12.17.2015	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted with the majority of House Republicans to pass H.R. 2029, legislation that includes several critical tax relief provisions. This bill permanently extends and expands the small business expensing limitation for Section 179 property, permanently extends the option to deduct State and local sales taxes, and renews a number of charitable giving provisions. “A permanent expansion of Section 179 provisions ensures that small businesses have the certainty they need to make capital purchases and better plan for the future,” said Rep. Conaway. “It is critical that our government supports economic growth and job creation by allowing small businesses to invest in their surrounding communities, rather than get in their way. “Other critical provisions in this bill include the option to deduct State and local sales taxes instead of State and local income taxes. This allows Texans, who do not pay State income taxes, the opportunity to take advantage of a deduction not previously available to them. This legislation also encourages charitable giving by renewing a number of tax relief provisions. These extensions will, among other things, incentivize food donations and land preservation, and make it easier for non-profits to provide a helping hand to those in need.” ###
12.03.2015	Washington–Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 8, The North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act by a vote of 249-174. Included in this bill was an amendment sponsored by Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) and several colleagues to lift the antiquated ban on crude oil exports. “Congress has spoken again and recognized the need to lift the ban on oil exports,” said Rep. Conaway. “Outdated energy policies will only harm our nation’s economy and prevent forward progress. I’m glad the House has taken a stand on the importance of exporting oil. “In addition to this amendment, H.R. 8 includes several important provisions to facilitate domestic energy production in order to create jobs and strengthen our national security. Our nation’s energy industry is driving our economic growth. It’s time to say yes to energy, and support legislation like H.R. 8 to ensure that our economy thrives.” ###
12.01.2015	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted with the majority of the House of Representatives to pass two resolutions of congressional disapproval of the President’s new power plant regulations. “The President and his administration have yet again chosen to bypass Congress and act alone against the best interest of our nation,” said Rep. Conaway. “The Environmental Protection Agency’s new rule would effectively impose a cap-and-trade system that is similar to one that failed to pass Congress during President Obama’s first term. The effects of these new regulations will be felt by consumers across the country as energy producers are forced to spend billions of dollars just to comply. By passing these resolutions of congressional disapproval, Congress is sending a clear message that these unnecessary regulations go too far, and only serve to harm the hardworking citizens of this nation. President Obama and his administration must stop their reckless rule making, and start doing what is best for the American people.” ###
11.03.2015	Washington– Tuesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced the introduction of H.R. 3329, legislation to increase the number of operational aircraft carriers in the U.S. Navy fleet mandated by law from 11 to 12. This announcement comes after revelations during a House Armed Services Committee hearing that the Navy will not have the capabilities to provide a “continuous” aircraft carrier presence in both the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific until fiscal year 2021. “When the United States first decided to conduct airstrikes against ISIS in 2014, the USS George H. W. Bush (CVN-77) was in place within 30 hours. The carrier then remained the sole source of airstrikes for the first 54 days of the air campaign. Our carrier fleet today is being asked to deal with threats and crises all over the globe, from attacks in Iraq and Syria to humanitarian disaster relief in the Pacific. Russia has declared intentions to keep a permanent naval presence in the Mediterranean to counter NATO expansion, and China represents a continual threat to maritime stability in the South China Seas. Carrier deployments have increased to over 8 months on average, with some longer than ten months, causing shortened maintenance and training times. Our ships and our Sailors are feeling the consequences,” said Congressman Conaway. “Since World War II, the U.S. Navy has depended on its aircraft carriers to provide forward presence and power projection. From the Korean War until 2000, the Joint Chiefs of Staff aimed to maintain a 15-carrier Navy. However, declining military budgets forced the Navy to reduce to 12 aircraft carriers by 1998, and to 11 aircraft carriers by 2007. Congress then set the number at 11 to prevent even further reductions. Today, there is a gap in carrier presence in the Persian Gulf as the Iran nuclear deal goes into effect, and Navy acquisition chief Sean Stackley testified before a House Armed Services Subcommittee hearing today that gaps in presence will continue until 2021. Our adversaries threaten our freedom of the seas and doubt America’s military might. Now is the time to show strength and resolve to both our military members and to the international community by raising the number of operational aircraft carriers so that the U.S. Navy can meet its commitments at home and abroad. “The USS John F. Kennedy (CVN-79) can be scheduled for completion in 2023, at which point the U.S. Navy will again have 12 operational aircraft carriers. The number of carriers mandated by Congress should match shipbuilding plans already in place in order to set the standard for the future. Aircraft carriers form the backbone of the Fleet. I am proud to sponsor legislation that will ensure our Navy has the ships it needs to do its job, and I encourage my colleagues to show their support by cosponsoring this bill.”
10.10.2015	Washington–In this week’s Republican address, CongressmanMike Conaway(TX-11) calls on President Obama to join Republicans’ efforts to lift the nation’s outdated ban on crude oil exports. Lifting the ban, as the House votedto do on Friday, would help create more jobs, lower gasoline prices, and boost our friends and allies around the world. “The outdated policies of the 1970s should not and must not limit the possibilities of the 21st century,” Conaway says. Remarks of House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway of Texas Weekly Republican Address Speaker’s Ceremonial Office, The Capitol October 10, 2015 These days, you’re hearing a lot about America’s energy boom, about how it’s creating jobs and revitalizing industries. Much of this is thanks to the genius, gumption, and hard work of the men and women of our energy industry – many of whom hail from district 11 in West Texas that I get to represent. It’s great to talk about this. But time and again, we’ve seen Washington stifle successes. In fact, this boom has happened in spite of the Obama administration’s efforts to block production anywhere and everywhere it can. So we can’t take anything for granted. That’s why we’re working hard right now to lift the federal government’s ban on crude oil exports. You may not even have realized that we have this ban in place, but we do, and it’s costing American jobs. It’s outdated, also. Many of us remember what happened back in the 1970s, when gas prices quadrupled almost overnight. The government responded by putting a cap on gas prices. But instead of protecting consumers, it just caused long lines at the gas station and rationing. So the government’s next step was to put in place a ban on oil exports. The idea was to prevent that price-controlled oil from flowing overseas, and to try and control our own energy destiny. But as we all know, the export ban did not protect us from world oil prices and it did not allow us to control our own supply. Times have changed. Far from being addicted to foreign oil, we are in the midst of a crude oil renaissance right here at home. All the ban is doing now is holding back economic development in every state of our union. Lift that ban and we could see close to a million jobs created in just a few years’ time. Not only that, but according to the Government Accountability Office, if we lift the ban, consumer gasoline prices will drop. Lower fuel costs don’t just make road trips more affordable; they also help nearly every industry that uses energy – from agriculture to shipping. And that means good jobs get created here, not overseas. And there is this.Right now, we see Vladimir Putin using Russia’s energy supply as leverage to control Europe. The president’s deal with Iran actually opens the floodgates for Iranian crude oil to come flowing back into the market. The idea that Iran can export oil while our own domestic producers can’t is just flat out wrong. Lift the ban now and we help our friends and our allies around the world. Having stronger allies makes us stronger in a world getting more dangerous by the day. So: more jobs. Lower prices at the pump. A more secure country. Those three things are high up on any list of the American people’s priorities. Lifting the ban will advance all three goals at once. It’s a proverbial win-win-win. Now, here’s where we are. The House has just passed H.R. 702, a bill that will lift the ban. We’ve gotten great support from farmers, manufacturers, unions, and state leaders around the country. But instead of listening to the American people, this president is threatening to veto the bill, saying it’s not needed. Well, let me tell you, if you talk to the workers in district 11, where I get to represent, and you talk to the people who have been laid off in this tough economy, they’ll tell you that this bill is absolutely necessary.The president should and must listen to the American people, and help us lift this export ban today. Because again, the energy boom is great to talk about. And it’s a great story. But now we have a chance to actually do something big to keep this great American success story going. The outdated policies of the 1970s should not and must not limit the possibilities of the 21st century. Thank you for listening. God bless each one of you, God bless Texas, and God bless the United States of America. ###
10.09.2015	Washington–Friday, the House of Representatives passed legislation to lift the antiquated ban on crude oil exports. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), a cosponsor of H.R. 702, released the following statement upon passage: “It’s great to see this critical legislation pass the House of Representatives by such a large majority. The ban on crude oil exports has plagued our nation for over 40 years now, slowing economic growth and job creation. If we were to lift the ban today, we would see close to a million jobs created in just a few years’ time, and Texas alone would see $5.21 billion in income contribution by 2020. “In addition to the very tangible economic benefits, lifting the ban would also have a significant impact on our national security. Right now, unstable nations like Russia are controlling the energy supplies of our allies around the world. The President’s deal with Iran will allow Iranian producers to export oil, while American producers remain handcuffed by this outdated law. America can and should be a leader in the global energy market, and lifting the crude oil export ban will put our nation on that path. “The oil export ban is a relic of the 1970s, and has no business limiting the economic possibilities of 2015. This legislation is not just a jobs bill, or a national security bill, but a policy that will shape our nation’s future in a constantly changing global landscape. I’m proud to see the House of Representatives take a stand and pass H.R. 702.”
10.09.2015	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) was selected to deliver the Weekly Republican Address on Saturday, October 10.Conaway will discuss Republicans’ efforts to build on America’s energy boom, which has helped put many Americans back to work and revitalize our manufacturing base. “It’s an honor to deliver this week’s Republican Address,” said Congressman Conaway. “We have the chance right now to build on the American oil renaissance, and both boost economic growth at home, and provide a secure and dependable energy source for our nation and our allies. I thank the Speaker for allowing me to deliver this important message.” Serving his sixth term in the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Mike Conaway represents 29 counties in Texas’ 11th congressional district, including the cities of Midland, Odessa and San Angelo. In the House, he is the chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture and also serves on the House Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Learn more by visiting his official website or by following him on Facebook and Twitter. The Weekly Republican Address will be available tomorrow, Saturday, October 10, at 6:00 am ET on Speaker.gov and GOP.gov.
09.30.2015	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted to defund Planned Parenthood, and voted against a Continuing Resolution that would fund the government at current levels, including budget authority for Planned Parenthood through the middle of December. Despite protest from Congressman Conaway and many other conservative members of the House, the Continuing Resolution passed by a vote of 277-151 and will now be going to the President’s desk. Congressman Conaway released the following statement following these votes: “Taxpayers should not be on the hook for funding the illegal actions we have seen from Planned Parenthood. I simply could not vote for a Continuing Resolution that would grant budget authority to allow Planned Parenthood to receive any more federal funding. “It is unconscionable that Democrats are turning a blind eye to these atrocities. The House of Representatives has voted three times now to defund Planned Parenthood, and Senate Democrats have continued to block these bills from coming to the Senate floor for debate. “I am deeply disappointed in the result of today’s vote, but the fight to defund Planned Parenthood and stop the illegal sale of fetal tissue is not over. Far too many lives depend on it.” ###
09.25.2015	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in response to Rep. John Boehner’s announcement that he will retire from Congress at the end of October: “I’d like to thank John Boehner for his nearly 25 years of service to our nation. Speaker of the House is not an easy role, and John was faced with immense challenges during his tenure as Speaker. His decision to step down as Speaker was a selfless act, and I commend his decision to avoid a source of conflict within our Conference. I wish he and Debbie all the best as they enjoy the next chapter of their lives. “I look forward to a spirited debate as we elect our next Speaker. Now, it is time to come together as a Republican Conference and move forward, unified as a party to protect the conservative values that our nation needs.”
09.10.2015	Washington–Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Power passed legislation that would lift the 40-year old ban on crude oil exports. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), a chief supporter of lifting the ban, released the following statement in response: “Today, we overcame an important hurdle as the Energy and Power Subcommittee overwhelmingly voted to pass legislation that would lift the antiquated ban on crude oil exports. The economic benefits of lifting the oil export ban speak for themselves: close to a million jobs would be created in just a few years’ time, and Texas alone would see $5.21 billion in income contribution by 2020 if we were to lift the ban today. “In addition to the economic growth our nation would see, lifting the oil export ban will also improve our geopolitical position by allowing our allies around the world to purchase their energy resources from the United States, rather than increasingly unstable countries like Russia and Saudi Arabia. “Oil is currently the only commodity that we import but don’t allow to be exported, to the detriment of our economy. I’m glad to see my colleagues join in on the effort to lift the oil export ban. The ban is an obsolete policy, holding back economic development in West Texas and across our nation.”
09.09.2015	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in response to a U.S. District Judge’s decision to allow the U.S. House of Representatives v. Burwell lawsuit to proceed: “I am glad to see a U.S. District Judge give Congressional Republicans the green light to proceed with a lawsuit against the Obama Administration’s unconstitutional implementation of Obamacare. When the President and his administration implemented his signature health care law, they spent taxpayer dollars that Congress did not authorize. This is a blatant constitutional violation that cannot be ignored. We will continue the fight against Obamacare until no American is subject to this illegal law.”
07.29.2015	Washington– Today, the House of Representatives passed several pieces of legislation aimed at keeping the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) accountable for its actions and providing more flexibility for veterans’ healthcare, including the VA Accountability Act and the Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted for these measures, and released the following statement of support upon passage: “The veterans who served our country honorably deserve better than what the VA is providing,” said Congressman Conaway. “Last year, Congress took the first steps towards reforming the VA, and we vowed to continue the fight. One bill passed today will allow greater eligibility for the existing Veteran’s Choice Program, and consolidate all non-department provided care into one streamlined program. The other piece of legislation will provide the Secretary of Veterans Affairs the authority to remove VA employees for poor performance or misconduct, while adding protections for whistleblowers. “These reforms will have a real, positive impact for the many brave men and women who rely on the VA for their healthcare. Our veterans have sacrificed so much for us. It’s time that we fulfill our promise to them and provide them with the healthcare services they need and deserve.”
07.28.2015	Washington– Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 427, theRegulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny of 2015 (REINS). This legislation requires the House of Representatives and the Senate to take an up or down on any new regulation with an annual economic impact of $100 million or more before it can be enforced. “This president has shown time and time again that he is willing to bypass Congress when it comes time to getting what he wants,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “A bureaucrat in Washington should not have the power to create a new regulation that will impact the American economy without any oversight, but that is the unfortunate reality. If the REINS Act were in place, the Obama Administration would not have been able to enact the nearly 500 new major regulations that have taken effect over the last six years without Congressional approval. It is essential that the Senate follow suit and pass the REINS Act to prevent any more legislating from the executive branch.” ###
07.23.2015	Washington– Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act. Currently, there are nearly 300 jurisdictions have designated themselves as “Sanctuary Cities,” and are refusing to enforce our nation’s immigration laws. This bill preventsthose cities from receiving specific federal grants until they begin enforcing the law. “Sanctuary cities are endangering the lives of American citizens by not following the law,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “This legislation is a good start towards enforcing the law, but doesn’t permanently solve the much larger issue: our nation’s immigration laws are not being enforced and the president is turning a blind eye. Unfortunately, the President’s disregard for the law has led to preventable tragedies across the country. We need to enforce the laws that are in place for a very good reason: to keep our families and communities safe.This bill is just one piece of the plan that will be put forth by the Republican-controlled Congress to address our broken immigration system.” ###
07.15.2015	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement after a video surfaced documenting Planned Parenthood’s atrocious practices: “I am utterly stunned and sick to my stomach by this complete and absolute disregard for human life. Without a hint of shame, one of Planned Parenthood’s doctors vividly described how to dismember a baby in order to ‘harvest’ its body parts for sale. It is horrifying to know that this type of conniving and despicable behavior is not only acceptable at Planned Parenthood, but embraced and encouraged. It has become very clear that the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and their regional chapters nationwide are aware of this behavior despite their half-hearted denials. “These heinous crimes – and what was described in the video is a crime, no matter what Planned Parenthood’s interpretation is – must not be ignored. The House Judiciary Committee and the House Energy and Commerce Committee have already launched investigations into these atrocities, and I will do everything in my power to make sure the perpetrators of these unconscionable acts are held accountable. Innocent lives are on the line.” ###
07.14.2015	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement regarding the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “The goal of a deal with Iran was to prevent Iran from obtaining or developing a nuclear weapon. Instead of dismantling Iran’s nuclear program permanently, this agreement only delays it by 9 months and provides Iran with unrestricted financial assets it can then use to support terrorism. The deal also hinges on Iran’s cooperation with international inspectors, which has never been successful in the past. “Another worrisome part of this deal is that Iran will now be able to export oil, despite the fact that the Administration is keeping handcuffs on American-produced oil. I find it extremely troubling that we are now going to treat Iranian producers far, far better than our American producers. “This is a bad deal all around for the United States, plain and simple. The Obama Administration has decided to abandon many of our allies, including Israel, in the negotiations with Iran. 58% of American voters do not trust Iran at all, and I agree. Iran has never given us any reason to believe that they are serious about ending their nuclear program, and this deal proves that the Obama Administration isn’t either.” ###
07.09.2015	Washington– Wednesday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5, The Student Success Act. This legislation reforms the national education system by reducing federal involvement and returning control to states and school districts to make the decisions that are right for their students. “Access to a quality education is something that every child deserves,” said Congressman Conaway. “However, the current K-12 education system in our country under No Child Left Behind simply isn’t working. The Student Success Act reins in the expansion of the federal government’s involvement in education, and empowers states, school districts, parents, and students to make decisions that are best for each child’s individual needs. “Under this legislation, states will not be forced to adopt Common Core or any other common standards or assessments. This is the first step towards a solution to our nation’s education problem, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that states, not the federal government, retain control in the classroom.” ###
07.08.2015	Today, the House Agriculture Committee held a hearing to examine the economic impact that exporting crude oil would have on the rural and national economy. Members of the committee heard from experts on energy development and the rural economy, who focused on the advantages to lifting the ban on oil exports. “The majority of oil development takes place in rural areas like Texas’ Eleventh Congressional District, and when development slows or prices swing wildly, the health of those rural communities suffers. Allowing a forty-year old law to dictate our nation’s energy policy is simply not in the best interest of the American people. According to studies, if we were to lift the ban today, we would see close to a million new jobs nationwide in just a few years. Lifting the oil export ban will grow our economy, it will also improve our geopolitical position and it will lower gas prices,” said Chairman K. Michael Conaway. Written testimony provided by the witnesses from today’s hearing is linked below. Click here for more information, including Chairman Conaway's opening statement and the archived webcast. ​Witness List:​ Panel I The Honorable David J. Porter, Chairman, Texas Railroad Commission, Austin, TX Mr. Harold Hamm, Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Continental Energy, Oklahoma City, OK Mr. Terrence A. Duffy, Executive Chairman and President, CME Group, Chicago, IL Ms. Kari Bjerke Cutting, Vice President, North Dakota Petroleum Council, Bismarck, ND Mr. Jamie Webster, Senior Director, IHS, Washington, DC Mr. Frank Rusco, Director for Natural Resources and Environment, U.S. Government Accountability Office, Washington, DC ###
06.26.2015	Washington– Congressman Mike Conaway released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court ruling in Obergfell v. Hodges: “Today, we received another disappointing decision from the Supreme Court. Instead of upholding states’ rights, the Supreme Court decided yet again to legislate from the bench and impose their beliefs on all of us. This decision conflicts with my deeply held personal belief that marriage is a sacred vow between one man and one woman before God. I have supported traditional marriage my entire life and will continue to uphold the Judeo-Christian principles I was raised with. “As the Supreme Court’s ruling is implemented, it’s important that the fight to protect religious liberty and freedom of conscience is not forgotten. Every person, regardless of their individual beliefs, deserves to be treated with respect and dignity, but it is absolutely wrong for the Supreme Court to disregard the Constitutional rights of states and to presume to know what is best for the people of Texas.” ###
06.25.2015	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision today to uphold Obamacare: “I’m outraged and extremely disappointed that the Supreme Court sided with the Obama Administration and ruled in favor of Obamacare. The President, along with the Democrats in both the House and Senate, forced this deeply flawed legislation through Congress, and now Americans are paying the price for this ill-conceived law. Today’s decision by the Supreme Court was yet another blow to the American people and the fight for the freedom to make our own healthcare choices. “However, this is not the end of the fight. We will continue to pursue all legislative channels available to repeal Obamacare. I believe we need a free market healthcare policy that will actually lower health insurance costs and provide better healthcare for all Americans. Regardless of the Supreme Court’s ruling, Obamacare remains bad policy. It is now more important than ever that Republicans retain control of Congress and that a Republican is elected president in 2016, instead of a president who will simply follow in President Obama’s footsteps and block any attempt to repeal Obamacare. I will continue to vote to repeal Obamacare until Texans are no longer subject to this defective healthcare law.”
06.18.2015	Washington–Today, the House passedlegislation approving trade promotion authority, or TPA. The bill establishes an unprecedented level of consultation and transparency requirements, ensuring that Congress and the American people know the full impact of any trade agreement. It also gives clear instructions for trade negotiators to follow while establishing additional consequences for failing to comply, including withdrawal of TPA. “I commend Chairman Ryan for putting together a TPA bill that paves the way for negotiating new, high-standard free trade agreements while simultaneously ensuring we hold the Administration accountable,” Congressman Conaway said. "This bill includes the strongest measures to date for ensuring that the President sticks to the negotiating objectives laid down by Congress and prevents him from acting unilaterally. "Trade is incredibly important to agriculture, with exports accounting for nearly one-third of total U.S. farm income. With 95 percent of the world’s population residing outside of the United States, it is imperative that the U.S. works to expand market access while eliminating international barriers to trade. With TPA in place, our negotiators will have the credibility necessary to conclude the most effective trade agreements possible." This measure has received widespread conservative support. Texas Senator Ted Cruz expressed his support for TPA in an opinion editorial he wrote for the Wall Street Journal, which can be found here. A coalition of 26 conservative activist groups, including Americans for Tax Reform, Crossroads GPS, Citizens against Government Waste, and the American Conservative Union, sent a letter of support which can be read here. You can find these resources and more information about TPA from the Ways and Means Committee here. ###
06.11.2015	Washington– Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Congressman Bruce Westerman (AR-04) introduced the Accountable Recovery Act. This legislation requires that recovery plans for species conservation are made publically available once a species is listed as threatened or endangered under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “The purpose of the Endangered Species Act is to recover species, but all too often species are listed with no real plans for recovery,” said Congressman Conaway. “This legislation will ensure that not only are comprehensive species recovery plans with objective criteria in place, but they are made publically available so that the best available science will prevail. I’m looking forward to working with my colleague Rep. Westerman to get this important legislation passed into law.” “Transparency should be an important part of how we govern,” said Congressman Westerman. “But far too often, decisions are made with little to no transparency and citizens are left in the dark. This legislation shines a light on what has been until now a secretive process and will allow the best science to guide decisions on species recovery instead of special interests and bureaucrats in Washington guiding those decisions. I applaud Congressman Conaway for his leadership on this bill and I look forward to its consideration in this Congress." ###
05.18.2015	Washington–Monday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX) announced the introduction of H.R 2369, the Energy Supply and Distribution Act of 2015, which will lift the oil export ban.H.R. 2369 is the companion legislation for Senator Lisa Murkowski’s bill to lift the oil export ban, S. 1312. “The 40 year ban on oil exports is out of date and out of touch with America’s thriving energy industry,” said Congressman Conaway. “At the time the ban was introduced, it served a purpose – to keep our oil at home in order to reduce our exposure to the wildly fluctuating markets of the 1970s. Today, the ban has outlived that purpose and has become an antiquated policy that is now only harming Americans. We have an abundance of oil here in the U.S., and lifting the oil export ban will create jobs, spur economic growth, and strengthen our national security interests. I look forward to working with my many colleagues who support this legislation to ensure that we are no longer stuck in the 1970s when it comes time to our nation’s energy policy.” Congressman Conaway has been active in pushing for the oil export ban to be lifted. You can read his opinion editorial for the Midland Reporter Telegram on the subject here, and view recent floor speeches here and here. He has also introduced a resolution honoring those who are leading the American energy revolution, which can be found here. ###
05.13.2015	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) joined 112 Members of the House and Senate to sign an amicus brief in the lawsuit brought against the Obama Administration by the State of Texas challenging the constitutionality of the President’s illegal amnesty plan. “The President disregarded the Constitution when he implemented his illegal amnesty plan last year,” said Congressman Conaway. “As a result, the State of Texas stepped up to lead a lawsuit against the Administration to stop the President’s executive action from becoming our nation’s new immigration policy. The President himself said over 20 times that he did not have the authority to act on immigration in the manner that he ultimately did, and in February, a U.S. District Court agreed and halted implementation of the President’s executive action. I’m confident that the courts will continue to find the President’s actions illegal and unconstitutional as this suit moves forward.” To read the amicus brief, please click here.
05.13.2015	Washington – Wednesday, the House of Representatives voted to pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act by a vote of 242-184. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), a cosponsor of this legislation, released the following statement upon passage of the legislation: “Every child deserves to be protected and right now, that’s not always the case,” said Congressman Conaway. “This legislation takes on the important task of defending the defenseless: pain-capable unborn children. There is nothing more important than respect for the sanctity of life and after 20 weeks, babies are able to feel pain and are increasingly able to live outside the womb. While I am saddened that this legislation will not protect all unborn children, it is a start. I would urge the Senate to take up this legislation quickly so that all children capable of feeling pain are protected under our law.”
05.12.2015	Washington– Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) spoke in support of H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Act of 2015. The bill, which would force the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers to stop moving forward with the proposed “Waters of the United States” rule, passed the House by a vote of 261-155. Congressman Conaway delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in support of this legislation: I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015. I cannot stress enough the importance of this legislation to stop the Obama Administration’s “Waters of the United States” proposed rule and its damaging impacts on our country. This rule, in its current form, is a massive overreach of EPA’s authority and will impact nearly every farmer and rancher in America. It gives EPA the ability to regulate essentially any body of water they want, including farm ponds and even ditches that are dry for most of the year. The EPA’s defense of this rule is that it provides clarity to producers regarding what is and is not regulated, but in reality, this rule will allow nearly every body of water in the United States to be controlled by federal regulators. What makes the rule ambiguous is the claim made by EPA and the Army Corps that the rule is not all encompassing, yet the agencies also declared they will use their best professional judgment on when they will regulate a water and when they will not. These vague statements hold little comfort for farmers and ranchers who will face steep civil fines for any violation. For these reasons, I strongly support this legislation that forces EPA and the Corps to stop moving forward with the proposed “Waters of the U.S.” rule and do as they should have from the beginning - work with states and local stakeholders to develop a new and proper set of recommendations. It is imperative that the Administration listen to rural America. ###
05.01.2015	Washington–Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.Res. 243, a resolution asking Congress to support the hard working men and women who are leading the United States Energy revolution in West Texas. “ We have witnessed the impact of their strong entrepreneurial spirit and innovative technological advances that have grown our economy, created jobs, and bolstered our national security,” said Congressman Conaway. “We depend on their exhaustive and dangerous work to power our homes, pave our roads, fuel our cars, farm our lands and everything in between that keeps this nation running. “It is imperative that this Congress support energy policies that are as adaptive and innovative as these hard-working men and women. Our policies must cut through the bureaucratic red-tape to encourage exploration here at home, reduce job-killing regulations, and repeal the antiquated crude oil export ban of a bygone era.” To watch Congressman Conaway’s remarks, please click here. ###
04.23.2015	Washington–Thursday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Congressman Jeff Miller (FL-01) introduced the Veterans Second Amendment Protection Act. Currently, veterans who are appointed a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) fiduciary to help with benefits are automatically labeled as “mentally defective” in the VA system, which thenplaces them on the FBI’s National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). This legislation protects veterans from this incorrect labeling, which can result in the loss of their Constitutional right to bear arms. “No man or woman who has worn the uniform of our nation and fought for our freedom should be denied their second amendment right because of a bureaucratic system failure,” said Congressman Conaway. “This legislation will ensure that veterans are able to use the resources offered by the VA without fear of being wrongly placed on the FBI’s NICS. There is a critical lapse in our current system. Fortunately, we are able to fix it with this legislation while still maintaining appropriate safeguards for those who truly need assistance. I look forward to working with my colleague Congressman Miller to ensure that no veteran will be unlawfully prohibited from purchasing a firearm.” ###
04.21.2015	Washington–Monday, a broad bipartisan coalition, led by Reps. Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Tim Walz (D-MN), sent a letter to Secretary Carter regarding his commitment to making the Department of Defense (DoD) fully auditable and his strategy to achieve this goal. The Department’s recent advances in better financial management and audit came with Secretary Panetta’s decision to make audit a priority. Secretary Carter’s leadership and dedication to maintaining the audit efforts is imperative to finishing and institutionalizing this effort, and this letter asks Secretary Carter to make the same commitment to audit as have former Secretaries Chuck Hagel and Leon Panetta. “With the last month’s news of the Department of Defense Inspector General retracting the U.S. Marine Corps fiscal year 2012 audit, this letter comes at an important time. The IG’s decision highlights the Department-wide nature of this endeavor: if the Defense Accounting and Finance Service (DFAS) cannot maintain appropriate suspense accounts then that affects the entire Department. While much attention has focused on the service branches – and rightfully so – it cannot be forgotten that the Department agencies, like DFAS, are also a critical piece of the effort. The Secretary’s leadership is needed across all fronts,” said Congressman Conaway. “The Department is entering a new phase – the final push. With less than two full fiscal years left until the September 30, 2017, audit readiness deadline, Secretary Carter’s service comes at a crucial time.” “Conducting an audit of the Pentagon would help our nation tremendously, and work to find savings by rooting out waste and inefficiencies at the Department of Defense, rather than by reducing troop pay,” Walz, the highest ranking enlisted soldier to ever serve in Congress, said. “I’ve been pushing the Department of Defense to continue moving forward with audit readiness for some time now, but words from Congress alone will not ensure its completion: the Secretary’s leadership in this effort is paramount. I look forward to working with him as we move forward in this most important endeavor.” To read the letter, please click here. ###
04.13.2015	House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) announced he is an original sponsor of legislation introduced today by House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and the Transportation Committee's Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Chairman Bob Gibbs (R-OH) to stop the Environmental Protection Agency’s “waters of the United States” proposed rule. On March 17th, the Agriculture Committee’s Conservation and Forestry Subcommittee heard testimony on the devastating impact this rule would have on rural America. “The United States Supreme Court twice rebuked EPA for overstepping its bounds but, unfortunately, the Obama Administration’s response was to double down,” Chairman Conaway said. “In its current form, this rule continues EPA’s massive overreach, leading to exorbitant permitting costs, red tape, and even effective loss of property use for landowners. This could happen even when the land or water in question has no impact on navigable or interstate waters meant to be protected under the law, including virtually every farm ditch and pond in this country. I’m proud to be a cosponsor of The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act of 2015 to stop EPA’s power grab.” ###
03.24.2015	Washington–Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in response to the Department of Defense Inspector General retracting the U.S. Marine Corps fiscal year 2012 audit: “These developments are the difficult part of the ugly under-belly of the audit process, and to some degree are expected. That is why I have pushed the Department of Defense to begin auditing now, rather than wait until the 2017 deadline when the Department of Defense is required to be fully audit ready. Without the Department taking the steps towards financial management, they would not have uncovered these discrepancies. “There are still many questions that need to be answered as we learn more about the nature of these transactions and their impact. As this process moves forward, the Defense and Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS) must accept responsibility for their part in these unreconciled differences and resolve them in a timely fashion. If DFAS cannot reconcile these transactions, the services will not be able to complete their individual audits, so it follows that it is imperative that these bum transactions be fixed. “While not preferable news, my hope is that this will help refocus the Secretary of Defense, Services, and DFAS on the importance of full auditability. This certainly is not an easy process, but it is critical that we learn from our mistakes because we cannot afford to make them again and expect to make the audit deadline.” Congressman Conaway spoke with Federal News Radio earlier this evening on this decision. To listen to the interview, please click here. ###
03.03.2015	Washington– Today, Congress passed a bill that will fund the Department of Homeland Security for the remainder of the fiscal year, but does nothing to address President Obama’s illegal amnesty plan. Congressman Mike Conaway released the following statement in response to his vote against this legislation: “Earlier in the year, I supported the legislation passed by the House of Representatives to fund the Department of Homeland Security and prevent the President’s illegal amnesty plan from being enacted. However, I could not support the legislation today that does nothing to address President Obama’s executive action to grant amnesty to five million illegal immigrants. “Every attempt that the Republicans in the House of Representatives made to conference with the Senate on this funding bill was met with indifference by obstructionist Senate Democrats. Democratic Senators prevented this legislation from even being debated until hours before the Department of Homeland Security was set to shut down. Our nation was built on a system of checks and balances. The President himself said 22 times that he did not have the legal authority to act on immigration in the way that he ultimately did. A federal judge in Texas agreed with the President, and blocked his illegal amnesty plan from moving forward for now. “I am deeply concerned by the lack of principle coming from the White House and the Senate Democrats who put the country in this position. I am hopeful that our courts will uphold the decision made by the U.S. District Judge in Brownsville and find that the President has grossly overreached his constitutional authority, and that his illegal amnesty plan is indeed illegal.” ###
02.25.2015	Washington–Tuesday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Congressman Gene Green (D-TX) introduced H. Con. Res. 17, The Local Radio Freedom Act. This legislation, which was cosponsored by an additional 92 Members of the House of Representatives, opposes attempts from record labels to impose new taxes on local radio stations. "Local radio stations provide invaluable news and emergency information, not to mention Friday night football scores and music," said Congressman Conaway. "By demanding new performance taxes from local radio stations, big record labels are handed a payday while small radio stations are finding it harder and harder to make ends meet. This legislation will ultimately protect the more than 244 million Americans who regularly tune in to their local radio station. I'd like to thank my colleague, Congressman Green, for introducing this legislation with me. I'm glad to see such wide bipartisan support to protect local radio. " “Local radio stations provide free news, entertainment, and critical emergency alerts to listeners in communities all across the nation,” said Congressman Green. “Radio is good for listeners, it’s good for advertisers, and it’s good for recording artists who benefit from the increased exposure. Additional fees could impose a financial burden too big for small stations that serve the very communities that need it most. That’s why I am proud to join my colleague and fellow Texan, Congressman Conaway, and 92 other Members in a strong bipartisan show of support for free radio.”
02.17.2015	Washington – Last night, a federal judge in Texas temporarily blocked President Obama's executive action on immigration. This decision comes in response to a lawsuit filed by 26 states against the President challenging the constitutionality of his amnesty plan. "It's no surprise that a federal judge placed a preliminary injunction on this executive action, because the President himself said over 20 times that he did not have the authority to act on immigration in the manner that he did. President Obama has deliberately avoided working with Congress on this issue, and instead chose to take unilateral action," said Congressman Mike Conaway. "While this preliminary ruling is a step in the right direction, the fight against the President's illegal amnesty plan is not over. The House of Representatives passed legislation last month that defunded President Obama's executive order. The Senate has not yet acted on this issue, but I am hopeful that this temporary injunction will provide our Senators with the encouragement they need to pass similar legislation and prevent the President's illegal action from becoming our nation's new immigration policy."
02.13.2015	Washington – In January, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 240, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, which will fund the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for the remainder of the fiscal year as well as defund the President’s illegal amnesty plan. However, the Senate has not yet passed similar legislation, and DHS funding is set to run out in just two weeks. “The Senate must now act to keep the Department of Homeland Security open and functional past February 28th,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “Instead of buckling down and working through the normal legislative process, Senate Democrats are refusing to allow the Homeland Security funding bill to even be considered. Without this legislation, our borders will be unprotected and our national security will be at risk. It is imperative that Senate Democrats stop blocking this critical legislation and keep DHS operating normally. We are now down to the wire, and it is simply not an option for Senate Democrats to continue to block the Homeland Security funding bill.”
02.03.2015	Washington – Today, the House of Representatives voted to repeal President Obama's Affordable Care Act and provides a path forward to find a healthcare solution for all Americans. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement following passage: "The Affordable Care Act is not only not affordable; it's just not working for the millions of Americans who were promised a solution to their healthcare problems. This legislation repeals Obamacare, but doesn't stop there. It also instructs the relevant House committees to begin creating a free-market alternative to ensure that Americans will have access to affordable healthcare plans that meet each family's individual needs, instead of one-size-fits-all policies dictated by Washington bureaucrats. "The House passed similar legislation in the past, yet this is the first time with a Republican-controlled Senate. While the Democrats will have the ability to stall progress, the pressure of families losing their healthcare, rising insurance costs, and businesses firing employees to relieve the pressure from Obamacare will be squarely on their shoulders. They will have two decisions to choose from: repeal a piece of legislation that shattered Americans’ access to affordable, quality care or continue to ignore the heartfelt outcry of their constituents. Last November, the Democrats who chose the latter were not sent back to Congress. "Republicans will craft a plan that meets Americans’ needs and we will do this with their input. Americans won’t have to wait for us to pass a bill to see what’s in it. "Once Leader McConnell brings this to the floor, it will be time for both Republicans and Democrats to act to save the American people from further self-imposed pain. I urge the Senate to take this bill up immediately."
02.02.2015	Today, House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s Fiscal Year 2016 budget proposal. “Like a broken record, the President’s latest budget proposal calling for higher taxes and more spending doesn’t sound any better to hard-working Americans than it did the first time around. Simply put – this budget will hurt the economy and cost American jobs. “Rural America is no exception. Under the President’s proposed tax increases, including the elimination of stepped-up basis, the next generation of young producers would find it harder to take over the family farm or ranch. At the same time, the President’s ill-timed proposal on crop insurance would jeopardize the ability of producers to insure their crops in a climate of collapsing crop prices, major crop losses, and falling farm income. These tired proposals for higher taxes and more spending, along with EPA’s long list of choke-hold regulations, reflect the agenda of a President who is out of touch with the everyday concerns and lives of working families in rural America.”
01.27.2015	Washington – This week, the House of Representatives passed a dozen bills designed to fight human trafficking. These pieces of legislation will provide support and services to victims of trafficking, and boost resources for law enforcement. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement in support of these bills: “Human trafficking is sadly becoming more and more prevalent in today’s society. Each year, 800,000 women, men, and children fall victim to human trafficking, making it the fastest growing business of organized crime in the world. Over the last two days, the House of Representatives voted on 12 pieces of legislation to protect survivors of human trafficking, help free those currently enslaved, and prevent future attempts to traffic humans. Many of these bills were passed by the House of Representatives last Congress, but languished in the Senate under then Majority Leader Reid. I’m hopeful that under new Majority Leader McConnell, these bills to stop trafficking and create a safer world for our children will finally receive the attention they so desperately need.”
01.22.2015	Washington – On Thursday, the 42nd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, the House of Representatives voted to pass the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act. This legislation will prevent the use of federal funds for any abortion, including tax credits for Obamacare healthcare plans that include abortion coverage. “Every child deserves protection under the law, including those who have not yet been born,” said Congressman Conaway. “Current laws provide federal funding for some abortions and tax credits for certain healthcare plans covering abortions. This is entirely unacceptable. Taxpayers should not be responsible for funding any abortion, at any time. I’m proud to support this legislation today to correct this deplorable practice and I will continue to fight for the lives of the unborn every chance I get.
01.20.2015	Washington – Tuesday evening, President Obama delivered his seventh State of the Union address to the members of the House of Representatives and the Senate. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement following the President’s address: “Yet again, President Obama has chosen to rely on pretty words and idyllic thoughts about how the world should work instead of tangible policy goals that will get our country back on the right path. Throughout his speech tonight, President Obama harped on his desire to work with Congress. The House of Representatives passed numerous pieces of legislation in the first few weeks of this Congress that will create jobs and opportunities for American success. But instead of working with the House of Representatives and the Senate, President Obama has issued threats to veto half a dozen bills in the last two weeks alone. "Every year during his State of the Union address, President Obama has proposed a major tax hike on the American people. This year was no different.The President’s insistence on raising taxes for the seventh year straight not only underscores his failed policies and lack of new ideas, but is antithetical to the American dream. With his tax raises, Americans who work hard to create a better life for their families will see that money taken away by the federal government and given to others. The State of the Union address is meant to bring us together as a nation, but instead the President has decided to turn Americans against each other for his own political gain. “President Obama said last year that his policies were on the ballot in November. The American people listened and overwhelmingly elected Republicans to Congress, yet President Obama still refuses to accept the mandate given to Congress by the voters. The President’s obstructionist approach to governing is damaging the United States both at home and abroad. After tonight, it is apparent that he does not plan to change his behavior for the last two years of his presidency. As elected officials, we were entrusted with the ability to make a real and lasting impact on the American people. Unfortunately, under President Obama, that impact is not likely to be a positive one. “I would urge President Obama to reconsider his plan to veto every bill that comes across his desk for the next two years. Under the new Republican majority, Congress has come together and legislation that will help grow our economy, strengthen the middle class, and improve our national security will finally receive full consideration in the Senate as well as the House of Representatives. By focusing on positive solutions rather than blocking strong legislation because of petty differences, we can still preserve our great nation for generations to come.”
01.14.2015	Wednesday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 240, the Homeland Security Appropriations Act, by a vote of 236-191. This legislation funds the Department of Homeland Security for the remainder of the fiscal year, and defunds the President’s illegal amnesty plan. “Last November, President Obama wrongly granted amnesty to as many as five million illegal immigrants through an unlawful executive action,” said Congressman Conaway. “His decision to circumvent the proper legislative process was not the right way to handle this, and the President himself even admitted that he did not have the legal authority to act on immigration in this way. I made a promise to my constituents that one of the first things we would do this Congress would be to prevent the President’s unconstitutional executive action from becoming our nation’s new immigration policy. This legislation does just that. “In addition, this legislation provides Customs and Border Protection with enough funding to support the greatest number of Border Patrol agents and officers that we have ever seen, and provides them with the technologies they need to ensure the surveillance of air, land and sea approaches to our border. The Coast Guard will also be protected from the cuts proposed by the President that would have greatly harmed operational abilities, and Immigration and Customs Enforcement will see an increase in funding for detention programs and resources to investigate criminal activity. This bill prioritizes spending in a way that will ultimately help protect our country. It is imperative that the Senate now pass this legislation to stop the President’s unconstitutional actions and to give the needed support to the men and women who protect our borders.”
01.09.2015	Washington–Friday, the House of Representatives voted overwhelmingly to pass legislation authorizing construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline. The Senate is expected to vote on this legislation next week. “The Keystone XL Pipeline will create tens of thousands of quality jobs and is expected to bring $2 billion in earnings to the United States, all while making America more energy secure. Unfortunately, President Obama has chosen to play politics with this important project despite the fact that his own Administration has cleared the pipeline for construction,” said Congressman Conaway. “In addition to its job-creating potential, the Keystone XL Pipeline has the potential to help free America from unstable energy sources in the Middle East. By blocking construction of the pipeline, the President is harming our own national security interests. I cosponsored this legislation and proudly voted for it because I believe that this project has been delayed long enough. It’s time to build the Keystone XL Pipeline.” The initial application for the Keystone XL Pipeline was submitted over six years ago, and has undergone a series of reviews which have all deemed the pipeline to be ready for construction. Just today, the Nebraska Supreme Court upheld Governor Dave Heineman’s decision to approve the section of the pipeline that runs through the state. President Obama had previously stated that he would not support construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline until this legal hurdle was overcome. ###
01.06.2015	Washington - Congressman Conaway released the following statement upon passage of The Hire More Heroes Act of 2015: “The men and women who have proudly served our nation deserve access to the same opportunities that every citizen does. The Hire More Heroes Act helps small businesses ease the financial burdens of complying with Obamacare and incentivizes them to hire veterans. Under this legislation, employers will no longer be required to count those who are receiving healthcare through the Department of Veterans Affairs towards their total number of full-time employees that determines the business’s standing under Obamacare. “This commonsense legislation simply fixes one of Obamacare’s many faults: it doesn't require businesses to pay for health insurance for those who are already receiving it. Our veterans have proven their dedication and willingness to work. It’s time we showed them the same in return.” ###
12.17.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement on the deal with Cuba: “The agreement announced today is a poorly negotiated deal for America and for the Cuban people. We have given up significant leverage in exchange for few tangible benefits for our country or the average Cuban. As far as I can see, this deal makes no significant gains on either democratization or increasing respect for human rights in a country where the government controls every single aspect of life. “I have long been a supporter of relaxing agricultural trade restrictions with Cuba and providing humanitarian support for the Cuban people. However, the policies currently in place created advantages that the President has simply given away with this deal and will serve largely to enrich the leaders of Cuba. “The original embargo imposed by President Kennedy and the Cuban Democracy Act was of 1992 was explicitly intended to maintain sanctions on Cuba until the government moved toward ‘democratization and greater respect for human rights.’ Neither of these goals has been achieved with this deal. “The President has yet again damaged America’s ability to use negotiations to make positive changes around the world.”
12.11.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding his vote against the Fiscal Year 2015 Spending Bill: “This was a flawed bill which I opposed for a multitude of reasons including the fact that it did not include restrictive language that would have hindered the President’s amnesty plan. I look forward to continuing the House’s fight against the plan. I have a commitment from our Republican leadership that this process will begin in mid-January. By that time, we will have a Republican controlled Senate. It will still be a challenge to reverse the President’s executive order, but my Republican colleagues and I will not give up this fight. “There were a lot of good things in the bill such as cutting millions of dollars from the EPA and IRS budgets and cutting EPA staffing back to 1989 levels, but unfortunately the problems with the bill outweighed the good. These fiscally conservative provisions are indicative of the work we will do in the 114th Congress.”
12.05.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on House passage of the conference report for the Defense Authorization Bill: “I am pleased that the Fiscal Year 2015 Defense Authorization Bill that the House passed yesterday includes several important provisions that I worked on. “One provision would require the Department of Defense to award Purple Hearts to soldiers killed in the 2009 Fort Hood shootings. I offered this amendment on behalf of Congressman John Carter (R-TX31) and Congressman Roger Williams (R-TX25), who are not on the House Armed Services Committee. As we know too well, the battlefield in the War on Terror is not limited to foreign lands. Men and women who defend America against terrorism on American soil, should be eligible to receive the Purple Heart and other medals that recognize their heroism and sacrifice. “It also includes two provisions I authored that would prohibit large-scale purchases of biofuels unless they are cost competitive with traditional fuels, and require the department to submit a case analysis to Congress before constructing a biofuel refinery. These provisions are necessary at a time when our military is already facing enormous budget constraints. It is not the job of the Department of Defense to spend millions of taxpayer dollars to develop the biofuel industry when these monies could go toward service member training and readiness. “While I am happy this bill passed the House, the Senate now needs to pass it and the President needs to sign it. Furthermore, we need the President’s leadership in rolling back the across the board cuts that are damaging our military and threatening our national security.”
12.05.2014	Yesterday, the Department of Defense announced the Schedule of Budgetary Activity (SBA) audit contract winners for the Army, Air Force, and Navy. The contracts were awarded as follows: KPMG will audit the Army; Ernst & Young will audit the Air Force; and Cotton & Company will audit the Navy. The United States Marine Corps is already under audit. The companies will begin the current year auditing work on January 1, 2015. On Tuesday, December 9th, the House Armed Services Committee will hold a full committee briefing to examine the latest DoD audit progress and review the Department’s November Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness report. Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the latest Department of Defense and House Armed Services Committee audit news. “This is a big step forward in the effort to audit the department. While meeting the 2014 SBA readiness deadline in September was an achievement in itself, the start of current year auditing in January is confirmation that the DoD audit is moving forward in tangible ways. I applaud their progress and encourage them to continue the good work. “I look forward to Tuesday’s briefing as a chance to explore the nuts and bolts of the audit work. This will be an excellent opportunity for the committee to receive a status overview and delve into the department’s strategy going forward. As I have said before, there is still much work to be done. However, now that the audit – as opposed to readiness – is beginning, it is imperative for the committee to stay involved. As the final deadline approaches, there is little room for error, and our oversight will help ensure this gargantuan task is completed on time. “In many ways, the work begins now. The role these companies play in completing the 2015 current year audit will be pivotal for achieving the goal of a full DoD audit.”
11.20.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) Statement on President Obama’s Unconstitutional Executive Order: “After the election, President Obama said he wanted to work with Republicans to do what is in the country’s best interest. With today’s decision, he is picking a fight with my fellow Republicans and me and pushing a policy that is not in America’s best interest. If the American public had wanted him to do this, they would have voted differently earlier this month. He told the American public, ‘I am not on the ballot this fall…. But make no mistake: These policies are on the ballot. Every single one of them.’ The American public then sent an equally clear message to him with their votes that they opposed this policy. Furthermore, when asked directly if he would act unilaterally, he has said 22 times that he does not have the authority to do this. Twenty-two times. “My fellow Republicans and I are not foolish enough to take his bait. We're going to stand opposed to these actions. We're going to do what's best for our country. Furthermore, I fully support Governor-Elect Greg Abbott’s plan to sue President Obama on behalf of the State of Texas.”
11.18.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement after the House Republican Steering Committee selected him as the 50th chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture. “I am humbled and honored to be selected as the 50th chairman of the storied House Committee on Agriculture. The work that farmers and ranchers do is part of our country’s foundation. They feed, fuel, and clothe our nation. I look forward to building on the bipartisan work of the chairmen who have led this committee for the past two centuries. “I represent, and love, rural America. It’s the backbone of our country. The values and concepts that make America great are stored in rural America, and I want to protect that. There are fewer and fewer voices representing rural America, and I am honored to be one of those voices. That is my overarching drive as the Committee moves forward.”
10.21.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), Chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee, issued the following statement regarding Secretary Vilsack’s recent decision to speed up implementation of a critical drought relief provision in the Farm Bill: The provision became effective on February 7 but USDA announced in March that the relief would not be available until 2016. The Secretary announced today that the provision will now be moved up to start with the 2015 spring crop. "I would like to have seen this drought relief made available starting with the winter wheat crop, but I commend Secretary Vilsack for breaking the bureaucratic logjam to ensure it is available for the 2015 spring crop," Conaway said. "Speeding up this relief is crucial, especially to farmers who are coming off of a string of crippling drought years and who now face sharply falling crop prices." The 2014 Farm Bill provides that for purposes of calculating a producer's actual production history (APH) under crop insurance, a producer may elect to exclude any yield in a crop year when the yield in the county or a contiguous county is equal to 50 percent or less of the 10 year average. Producers making this election must pay an actuarially appropriate premium. Disaster years--particularly severe disasters occurring in a row of consecutive years like the drought in Texas--reap havoc on a producer's actual production history, reducing the yields a producer may insure in future years at a level well below what a producer can expect to produce. The depressed insurance coverage makes it difficult for producers to cash flow and secure financing, especially with the recent collapse in prices. "It takes years for farmers to recover after the kind of drought we have faced in Texas and other parts of the country, and falling prices will make the recovery even tougher," Conaway said. "Depressed insurance coverage in future years makes a difficult climb even more uphill. This Farm Bill provision simply allows producers to insure their expected yield and I thank Secretary Vilsack and RMA Administrator Willis for working to move up its implementation."
09.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement on the Department of Defense making an important Audit Deadline: “Today marks a major milestone in the Department of Defense’s efforts to audit their financial statements. Being prepared to audit 90 percent of Fiscal Year 2015 activities is a significant stride in meeting audit readiness and audit completion deadlines in 2017 and 2019, respectively. Of course the DoD still has a significant amount of work left to do to meet these deadlines, however, this achievement is not just a step in the right direction, it is confirmation that the DoD’s audit plan is working to bring the department under annual, clean audits. “In 2009, just five short years ago, the DoD’s planning and efforts needed much refining; however, today’s accomplishment indicates that the department better understands its strengths, weaknesses, and the right path forward. This understanding is essential to making the DoD auditable. “I commend Secretary Hagel and Deputy Secretary Work for their leadership and special attention to this task. I reserve special praise for Comptroller McCord and his team for their remarkable, day in and day out dedication to making this happen. I encourage them to keep up the good work, and I look forward to many more positive reports in the future.”
09.17.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding passage of an amendment to provide funding for arming the Syrian opposition: “There are no Boy Scouts in Syria. Nevertheless, I supported providing money for the President’s plan to arm the Syrian opposition. I did this with very grave reservations. Under the President’s plan, we will go through a vetting process to find those Syrian opposition members that are not Islamic jihadists and are not part of the regime of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. We will arm and train those Syrian opposition members who meet these criteria so they can defend their own country. While we have a long and not always successful history of doing this, it is the best alternative at this time. Passage of this amendment does not take the issue of the fight against radical Islam or this fight in Syria off of the table. If this is not successful, we may have to send American troops into harm’s way. If we have to do that, I want to be able to say that we have tried every other option. This authorization expires on Dec. 11th. At that time, we will know a lot more than we do today. We will have our military’s evaluation of if this is working. My vote in support of arming and training the Syrian opposition will get us to that point.”
08.01.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding passage of the border security bills: “The bills provide Border Patrol agents the immediate tools they need to address the crisis at our border. We have done this in a fiscally responsible way by making cuts in other areas to pay for this, rather than adding to our national debt. The bills include a provision amending a 2008 law that the Administration has used to slow the process of returning children from Central America who have illegally entered the United States. They also prohibit the Administration from spending money on its Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals policy that is providing an incentive for illegal immigrants “I have consistently said that we should never apologize for doing what is in America's best interest and today’s legislation meets that test. It is also happens to be in the best interest of the children at the heart of this crisis. Once we begin to quickly send them home, a clear message will be received in Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras and we will have fewer parents sending their children on a dangerous and illegal trek to the United States. “As the leader of the Democratic Party, the President should urge Democrats in the Senate to support this legislation. The House cannot do this alone. As I have said throughout the crisis, President Obama has to lead. This bill is not perfect. There is no single-shot solution to this issue. We must continue to ensure that we are properly securing our borders. That is an effort that should never cease.”
07.30.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on passage of the Veterans' Access to Care through Choice, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2014: “This bill addresses veterans’ access to quality health care and holds the Veterans Administration accountable. “Veterans will have access to quality care thanks to a newly created Veterans Choice Fund. The fund will expand hospital care to veterans through non-VA providers who participate in Medicare, federally-qualified health centers, Department of Defense funded facilities, and the Indian Health Service. The Veterans Choice Fund would be available to veterans who are unable to schedule an appointment within 30 days, reside more than 40 miles from a VA medical facility, or live in a state that does not have a VA facility. “The bill addresses the need for accountability, by giving the Secretary of the Veteran's Affairs the authority to remove incompetent or corrupt Senior Executive Service employees. The VA inspector general’s report found that there was no accountability for poor performance or corruption. The lack of accountability has directly contributed to the poor care for our veterans. I will work with my colleagues to closely monitor if these changes improve the care that our veterans are receiving. We have no greater responsibility than to take care of the men and women who have served our country.”
07.21.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding Gov. Perry’s announcement that he will activate the Texas National Guard to help stop the flow of illegal migrants: “President Obama should follow Gov. Perry’s example and send National Guard members down to Texas’s border with Mexico to help stem the tide of illegal immigration. While I was meeting with Border Patrol agents near McAllen on July 18th, the agents said if Guard members could take care of some tasks, the Border Patrol could focus on interdiction. This is a national issue and Texans should not have to assume the cost and responsibility for stopping this flood of illegal migrant children.”
07.10.2014	Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Chairman K. Michael Conaway called on the Agriculture Department to implement the Actual Production History adjustment in 2015. The adjustment was part of the 2014 Farm Bill and allows farmers to prevent harvest years that are affected by severe weather from having a negative impact on the calculations determining their crop insurance coverage. "There are farmers and ranchers who have experienced severe drought for three years," Congressman Conaway said. "Many remain in severe drought this year. A good many of these areas are in D-4 drought condition. Despite all of this, we understand the department intends to administratively delay APH relief until 2016, the THIRD year of a FIVE year farm bill. I respectfully urge the department to respond to this natural disaster in states like Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico, Colorado and other states around the country with the same speed and determination as one would expect in the case of a wildfire or a hurricane." While Under Secretary Scuse did not commit to implement the provision earlier than the fall of 2015, he did commit to go back and investigate and provide the committee with detail about potential timelines, and even consider a partial implementation for areas and crops most impacted by drought and losses in the farm bill. Congressman Conaway also thanked Farm Service Agency Administrator Juan Garcia and his staff for quickly implementing livestock disaster assistance.
07.09.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Department of Health and Human Services Committee Secretary Sylvia Burwell in which he called on them to show leadership in addressing the border crisis. Congressman Conaway also told them that he would oppose any effort to relocate the illegal aliens to the 11th District of Texas. "I am deeply alarmed by the crisis on our southern border and the Administration’s efforts to transfer these children to locations across the United States. These actions are detrimental to both our nation’s security and the safety of these children. The citizens of 11th District of Texas should not be forced to abet the Administration in carrying out this policy. "Returning illegal migrants to their homes is an appropriate and humane deterrent to stem this tide and will help you regain control of the border. Should you choose not to pursue a policy of returning illegal migrants, I am writing today to make abundantly clear that I will oppose every effort to relocate any illegal aliens to the 11th District of Texas. I cannot support and I will not ask my constituents to bear the burdens of policy that encourages human trafficking, ignores your legal responsibilities, and fails to address the crisis at hand." Click here to read the full letter.
07.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement about the tragic explosion in Comanche this morning “It breaks my heart for the Comanche community to have to go through this. What should have been a day of celebration tomorrow will now be a somber day for the community. Suzanne and my thoughts and prayers are with the families of those killed or injured and with the entire Comanche Community.”
06.24.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement on passage of the Customer Protection and End User Relief Act: American agricultural producers, utilities, and other businesses rely on commodities and derivatives markets to serve their customers and compete in a global marketplace. The Customer Protection and End User Relief Act protects them from costly bureaucratic overreach. It also significantly reduces the damage a failed Futures Commission Merchant (FCM), like MF Global, can inflict on its customers. “This common sense, bipartisan legislation prevents the Commodity Futures Trading Commission from imposing burdensome regulations on end-users who do not present a systemic risk to our financial system. These end-users did not cause the financial crisis and they should not be treated like financial entities. “This bill also includes a provision that I authored which would require the Commission to quantify the costs and benefits of a rule when it is first proposed. This change will strengthen the rulemaking process and will result in better rules and a safer market. This will ensure that regulatory burdens are justified in the real world, not just in the pages of the Federal Register.”
05.08.2014	The House Armed Services Committee approved an amendment that I offered to FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act that would require the Department of Defense to award Purple Hearts to soldiers killed in the 2009 Fort Hood shootings. I offered this amendment on behalf of Congressman John Carter (R-TX31) and Congressman Roger Williams (R-TX25), who are not on the Committee. The amendment awards the Purple Heart to service members who are victims of an attack that was inspired or motivated by a U.S. State Department-designated foreign terrorist organization. The service members who lost their lives on November 5th, 2009, were fighting a terrorist. As we know too well, the battlefield in the War on Terror is not limited to foreign lands. Men and women who defend America against terrorism on American soil, should be eligible to receive the Purple Heart and other medals that recognize their heroism.
05.07.2014	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement on approval of his amendments eliminating biofuel requirements to the FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act: “Today the House Armed Services Committee approved several amendments that I offered to FY2015 National Defense Authorization Act that would eliminate requirements that the Department of Defense purchase biofuels or develop its own biofuels. “It is foolish to require the military to purchase biofuels that are far more expensive than traditional petroleum products, which is why I offered an amendment that would allow the Department of Defense to only produce and procure biofuels if the cost is equal to conventional fuels or sequestration is replaced with an exemption for research and development. “I also offered an amendment that would prohibit the Department of Defense from developing their own biofuel refineries. Allowing the Pentagon to subsidize and develop its own biofuels industry is an abuse of the Defense Production Act. “These amendments are necessary at a time when our military is already facing enormous budget constraints. “It is not the job of the Department of Defense to develop the biofuel industry. As the bill moves forward, I will continue to fight to reverse these efforts to use the Department of Defense to prop up the biofuels industry.”
04.10.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding the passage of a budget bill: “Today the House of Representatives passed a budget that would provide a better future for my grandchildren and yours. This budget encourages the entrepreneurial spirit that defines America. It does not raise taxes and would balance in 10 years. It also addresses the long term solvency of Medicare and Social Security. The longer we fail to act on this issue, the more painful the necessary changes will be. The Obama Administration made the situation with Medicare worse by raiding money from Medicare to pay for Obamacare. The Democrats in the Senate and the President need to stop playing politics and come to the table. Some have questioned why House Republicans would pass a budget that takes on this sensitive issue when Senate Democratic leaders have said they will not bring up a budget. My reply is that regardless of if the Senate acts, there is value in calmly and rationally laying out a plan to address this issue.”
04.09.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding the House Agriculture Committee’s passage of the Customer Protection and End User Relief Act: “True to its name, the Customer Protection and End User Relief Act makes important progress in protecting Main Street. We strengthen safeguards against another Futures Commission Merchant (FCM), like MF Global, misusing customer funds and significantly reduce the damage a failed FCM can inflict on its customers. We also protect end-users from being roped into reporting, registration, or regulatory requirements that are inappropriate for the level of risk they can impose on financial markets. It is clear that end-users did not cause the financial crisis, they do not pose a systemic risk to the US financial markets, and they should not be treated like financial entities. “One of the most important changes we make is finally requiring the Commission to quantify the costs and benefits of a rule when it is first proposed. This change will strengthen the rulemaking process and will result in better rules and a safer market. This will ensure that regulatory burdens are justified in the real world, not just in the pages of the Federal Register.”
03.31.2014	“For millions of Americas, investing remains a path to prosperity and financial security. Our markets are the most robust and innovative markets in the world. They support unparalleled capital formation and critical risk mitigation tools that help grow businesses and create jobs. Market participants are best equipped to determine what role high frequency trading should continue to play. Americans should be wary of an overreaction by Congress or regulators, who may choose to act because of headlines, rather than an understanding of the issues. As chairman of the subcommittee responsible for overseeing commodity and derivative markets, I am committed to robust oversight to ensure that financial markets work for every American.”
03.27.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Services decision to list the Lesser Prairie Chicken as threatened: “I am disappointed in the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Director Ashe had the opportunity to build a new model of cooperative conservation and he failed. The purpose of the range wide plan was to preclude a listing. It was to show that a voluntary, stakeholder process could preserve the Lesser Prairie Chicken. Stakeholders deserved the opportunity to see if their efforts would be successful. The Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, the oil and gas industry, and farmers and ranchers did an incredible job of putting together a Range-Wide Conservation Plan, only to have Director Ashe disregard the potential of voluntary efforts to preserve the Lesser Prairie Chicken. As of March 21, 2014, nearly 4 million acres of land had been enrolled in the plan and more than $26 million in non-federal money had been committed. Today’s decision to list the Lesser Prairie Chicken as threatened certainly does not encourage an atmosphere of trust and cooperation.”
02.15.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway issued the followed statement on the passing of Andrews Mayor Bob Zap: “Suzanne and I are deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Andrews Mayor Bob Zap. It was an honor to have had the opportunity to work with Bob, as he insisted on being called, on issues that were important to the City of Andrews. Bob, who was a Chicago native, was a pillar of the Andrews community. He was a man of great faith, who with his wife, Joyce, fostered and adopted several children. His contributions to Andrews included both his government service and also his service to the Andrews Presbyterian Church and the First Christian Church. Andrews is richer thanks to the contributions that Bob made and he will be missed. We offer Joyce and his children our condolences. They are in our prayers."
02.02.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement today regarding the ceremony honoring the Unites States Marine Corps for conducting a successful audit for fiscal year 2012 – the first of its kind for the Department of Defense. “I want to congratulate the United States Marine Corps on a job well done. There were some difficult times when some thought this day would not come, but in typical Marine fashion they confronted the problem and took the beach-head. Marines are often called upon to lead us into battle, and today is evidence of that esprit de corps. I encourage other services to follow their tenacity in tackling this mission. “I also would like to acknowledge the Department of Defense leadership. While the Marines are the tip of the spear, pulling the entire Department together in one effort to improve financial management is nothing short of monumental. I expect we will see more accomplishments in the coming years as the process is perfected across the department. “We must build on this achievement. Proper financial management is imperative to a fully functioning, efficient Department of Defense, and I am grateful to the Marines for taking the lead. Again, congratulations to the Marine Corps on a job well done.” ### Ted Monoson Communications Director Congressman K. Michael Conaway 2430 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 (202) 225-3605
01.31.2014	Today, Robert Hale, Pentagon Comptroller, announced he is retiring. In his place, President Obama has nominated Mike McCord, the Principle Deputy Under Secretary of Defense. Upon hearing this announcement, Congressman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: “First, I would like to thank Mr. Hale for his service to our nation. I praise him for his professionalism and selflessness in doing one of the more thankless jobs within the Department of Defense. Over the last five years he has done the difficult job of reining in the DoD’s budget while not compromising the safety of our troops, or the security of our nation. “Mr. Hale led by example and tackled some of the more difficult, intractable issues within the DoD – one being the financial management of the Department. As many know, auditing the Pentagon has been a top priority of mine, a task that led me to work with Mr. Hale and his team frequently. While there is still a ways to go in the endeavor to audit the DoD, he was instrumental in advancing the audit effort – we would not be where we are were it not for Mr. Hale. Today, because of his leadership, there is light at the end of the tunnel. Changing the culture within the DoD is not easy, a fact many within the Department intimately know; yet, Mr. Hale has slowly reversed the tide, and for this, the U.S. taxpayer and I are truly grateful. “Lastly, I would like to thank Mr. Hale’s family for lending him to the nation’s service. Comptroller is a demanding job, but I believe Mr. Hale was especially called to this position and the impact he had on the department prove this as fact. “Again, I thank Mr. Hale for his work. His leadership, experience, and steady guidance will be sorely missed. I wish Mr. Hale a well earned retirement from public life and all the best to him and his family moving forward."
01.29.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) released the following statement about the passage of the Farm Bill: “We have produced a fiscally responsible Farm Bill that spends $23 billion less than the 2008 Farm Bill and provides a strong set of risk management tools for our farmers and ranchers, while also taking a step in the right direction on the Food Stamp program. “The largest portion of the deficit reduction comes from eliminating the Direct Payments that provided farmers with support regardless of if they planted a crop and replacing them with risk management tools that farmers can rely on when they suffer losses. Especially important to Texas is livestock disaster aid for ranchers affected by severe drought. This aid will be in place going forward, but also covers losses from 2012 and 2013. As the Chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee, I am pleased with the product that we have produced for farmers and taxpayers. “The bill includes a new pilot program that will allow 10 states to implement work requirements for able-bodied adults. This initiative would give individuals dignity by helping them move from dependence to self-sufficiency and independence. Republicans in Congress and specifically those on the House Agriculture Committee will build on this pilot program to create a Food Stamp program that is as focused on encouraging work as it is on providing temporary assistance. “The bill should have included two additional provisions: one offered by me and Congressman Jim Costa’s, D-Calif., to repeal the Grain Inspection Packers and Stockyards Administration (GIPSA) regulations, and a second offered by Congressman Randy Neugebauer, R-Texas, to make Country-of-Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements compliant with our trade commitments. Congressman Costa and I offered our GIPSA provision to reverse a blatant abuse of the regulatory process in implementing the 2008 farm bill. I will continue my efforts to get both the GIPSA and COOL provisions enacted into law. “Finally, I want to congratulate Chairman Lucas. He did a great job overcoming many challenges during the several years we have worked on this Farm Bill and maintained the patience of Job despite the obstinance of our Senate colleagues. ”
01.28.2014	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) released the following statement on the State of the Union: “The President’s State of the Union address makes it clear that he has not learned the lessons of ObamaCare. If he had worked with Republicans on ObamaCare, rather than insisting on going it alone, many of the ObamaCare problems could have been avoided. “I oppose his decision to act unilaterally to raise the minimum wage for employees of federal contractors and his call for Congress to approve a broader increase in the federal minimum wage this year. Increasing the federal minimum wage would make it expensive for businesses to hire new employees and hurt workers who have fewer skills, less experience, and limited education. There are more effective ways to increase wages for all hardworking Americans, such as eliminating unnecessary regulations, and improving job-training programs. “Moreover, the President’s insistence on going around Congress is an insult to our Constitution’s system of checks and balances. Senate Democratic Majority Leader Harry Reid is complicit in the President’s violation of the Constitution. “During the past year, the House has passed numerous bills, doing everything from reforming patent laws to streamlining regulations, which would grow the economy and encourage companies to hire workers. Senator Reid refuses to act on these bills. In his speech the President should have called on Democrats in the Senate to act on these measures. “In his final two years in office the President should work with Republicans to rein in our federal deficit and strengthen our economy.”
01.15.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the followed statement regarding his vote in favor of the Budget Agreement: “This bill is part of an ongoing effort by House Republicans to rein in out of control federal spending that threatens our national security and is harming our economy. We have been working on this since we gained control of the House of Representatives in 2011. We have changed the conversation from, ‘How much do we increase spending?’ to ‘How much do we reduce spending?’ Although I am pleased with what we have accomplished, I am not satisfied with where we are at. We need to further reduce spending and I will continue my efforts to impose fiscal discipline on our bloated federal government.” “It is also important that this spending bill includes language that exempts all disabled veterans who retired from the military from changes in the Budget agreement that slow the growth of their pensions.” · From Fiscal Year 2007 to Fiscal Year 2010, Democrats increased Federal spending by $210 billion; With this spending bill, from Fiscal Year 2011 to Fiscal Year 2014, Republicans will have decreased government spending by $165 billion · Fiscal Year 2009: $1.013 Trillion; If this bill becomes law, Fiscal Year 2014 spending would be $1.012 Trillion. ###
12.18.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Dec. 18, 2013 Contact: Ted Monoson (202) 225-3605 Rep. Conaway Vows to Protect Disabled Veterans’ Pension Benefits WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) signed on as a co-sponsor of legislation offered by House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller, R-Fla., that would exempt all veterans who retired from the military for physical disability, who received combat-related special compensation, or who have a service connected disability rating of 50% or higher, from changes in the Budget agreement that slow the growth of their disability pensions. “The budget agreement included an unclear provision that unintentionally slowed the growth of pension benefits for disabled veterans. This is unacceptable and today I co-sponsored legislation that would fix this mistake. The House will take this bill up, or other legislation that does the same thing, before the changes take effect. The change in veterans’ pensions does not go into effect until December 2015; nevertheless, we need to fix this in the very near future. Congress will protect disabled veterans from any harmful changes to their pension.” ### Ted Monoson Communications Director Congressman K. Michael Conaway 2430 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 (202) 225-3605 Sign up for Congressman Conaway's e-newsletter here.
12.12.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE: Dec., 12, 2013 Contact: Ted Monoson (202) 225-3605 Congressman K. Michael Conaway Statement on Budget Agreement Washington - Congressman K. Michael Conaway issued the followed statement regarding his vote in favor of the Budget Agreement: "I supported the budget agreement because the status quo is unacceptable. Under the sequester our military faces an indiscriminate slashing of resources, which is putting the men and women in our armed forces in unnecessary danger. The sequester was supposed to be offset by targeted cuts in wasteful spending, but instead, these indiscriminate cuts are hollowing out one of the few essential functions of our federal government – our national defense. Failing to offset the sequester in 2014 and 2015 will result in a military that is too small, too poorly equipped, and too poorly trained to safely defend our nation. "Besides partially offsetting the sequester for two years, this legislation makes several important policy changes. It ends a subsidy of private pension plans, requires federal employees to contribute more to their own retirement, repeals unnecessary government programs, and prevents abuse in the Unemployment Insurance and Medicaid programs. "This plan also increases the fees that some Americans must pay to utilize some government services – like air travel, customs fees pension insurance. While I am not happy about the increase in fees that are part of this deal, the increase in fees will cover only the cost of providing the program. "Work on a long-term deal that reins in our federal budget deficit and addresses entitlement spending should begin immediately. While I am disappointed in parts of the deal, especially the increase in revenue, it is a moral imperative that the men and women in the military have the training and resources they need when we send them into harm’s way and we cannot do that under the across-the-board cuts demanded by the sequester. "My support for this agreement in no way diminishes my commitment to addressing our nation’s long-term fiscal problems." ### Ted Monoson Communications Director Congressman K. Michael Conaway 2430 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 (202) 225-3605 Sign up for Congressman Conaway's e-newsletter here. Click Here to view this email in your browser Click Here to be removed from this list
11.01.2013	I will be holding legislative updates followed by question & answer sessions at the below locations on Monday, Nov. 4th. I look forward to talking with you and answering your questions. 9 a.m. Mertzon -- Irion County Museum, 112 West Fayette Ave. 11 a.m. Eden -- The Multipurpose Center, 291 West Blanchard. 1:30 p.m. Menard -- Menard County Library, 100 E. Mission. 5 p.m. Junction -- County Court Room, Kimble County Courthouse, 501 Main Street.
10.29.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. –U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding the passing of former Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton: “Ike Skelton, D-Mo., was a leader on military issues and set an example that I am proud to follow. During his years in Congress he was also a staunch advocate for our men in women in uniform. Congressman Skelton was a mentor and a dear personal friend for whom I had the utmost respect. I will miss his good humor, his wise advice, and his unflinching devotion to his countrymen. I will miss my friend."
10.29.2013	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) talked about intelligence issues this morning on C-SPAN. "It should be no surprise that the United States collects intelligence around the world," Congressman Conaway told C-SPAN host Greta Brawner. The world is interconnected in ways it wasn't 20 years ago. Bad guys are everywhere and they hide in civilian populations all over the world." The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, on which I serve is holding a hearing on these developments today. http://www.c-spanvideo.org/program/MikeCo
10.02.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today announcing that he will not accept his pay for the duration of the government shutdown: “I have asked the House of Representatives’ chief administrative officer to stop my pay during the government shutdown. However, should they be required by law to pay members of Congress, I will refund my pay to the U.S. Treasury for the duration of the shutdown, starting Oct. 1. “I continue to contribute personally and financially to numerous church and charitable organizations and believe that charitable donations and efforts should be driven by personal convictions and not political grandstanding.” For a copy of the congressman’s letter to Chief Administrative Officer Dan Strodel, please click here.
10.01.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the government shutdown: “The House of Representatives fulfilled its responsibilities by sending not one, not two, but three bills to the Senate to keep the government open while highlighting the damage Obamacare will do to American families and the economy. The Senate, choosing not to follow the will of the people, discarded these efforts so they could protect Obamacare. It is time for Democrats to come to the table and negotiate in good faith, and I will continue to push for fiscally responsible legislation to reopen the government that also addresses Washington’s addiction to deficit spending.”
09.20.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today on the U.S. House of Representatives’ 230-189 vote to pass a continuing resolution that would fully fund the government through Dec. 15 while defunding Obamacare: “The bill we passed today reaffirms the House Republicans’ push to reduce spending and to repeal, defund and dismantle Obamacare. This bill would fund the government at the fiscal 2013 spending levels – $986.3 billion – and would keep in place the spending cuts made earlier this year. “This legislation would also permanently and fully defund Obamacare, preventing any more taxpayer dollars from being spent on this bloated, intrusive and deeply flawed program. Obamacare is premised on the false notion that Washington knows best. We must replace Obamacare with patient-centered solutions that are less bureaucratic, less costly, and less intrusive on the rights of Americans. Now it is time for the Republicans in the Senate to continue the charge and join us in standing up for the American people.” Rep. Conaway also joined the House’s Texas Republican delegation in sending a letter today to every member of the United States Senate, urging senators to unite with them in the effort to defund Obamacare through the continuing resolution. The full text of the letter is below. For a PDF of the letter with signatures, please click here. “The Republicans in the House have stood up for the health and well-being of the American people and sent a clear message to President Obama: Obamacare is destroying jobs, reducing full-time jobs to part-time jobs, ending health insurance policies that people want to keep, and forcing doctors that patients loved to leave the practice of medicine. “Obamacare is causing insurance rates and healthcare costs to skyrocket. Real people are being told they will not get the procedures or medical devices they need. Doctors and patients need to make these life-and-death decisions, not Obamacare bureaucrats, especially when the consequences could be fatal. “The House has voted 41 times to defund, delay and repeal this flawed law, and we have successfully repealed seven hurtful, abusive and wasteful Obamacare programs. Today we passed a continuing resolution to ensure that no more taxpayer dollars are wasted on Obamacare. “Now, it is up to the Republicans and like-minded Democrats in the Senate to continue the charge to defend the American people from this disaster to their health and finances. We urge you to use all of the legislative tools at your disposal, including the filibuster, to protect America from this train wreck. “Now is the time for the Senate to stand up for all those constituents who spoke so passionately at our town hall meetings about the irreparable harm Obamacare is causing. They did not want it passed; it is worse than they thought; so now they want it stopped. “We urge you to stand with us.”
09.03.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today on the situation in Syria: “It is unquestioned that the use of chemical, biological and nuclear weapons should be universally condemned and confronted. However, I believe that the president has not yet presented a plan that would fully address the use of chemical weapons in Syria and prevent future chemical attacks by the Assad regime on the Syrian people. As I have heard at town halls and from calls to my offices, the people of Texas’ 11th congressional district aren’t persuaded either. It is the responsibility of the president to make a case for military intervention and the responsibility of Congress to vote on it. As I return to Washington next week, I will continue to push for answers and evidence on the situation in Syria and the future of the Assad regime.”
07.11.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement today after the U.S. House of Representatives voted 216-208 to pass the farm bill: “This piece of legislation wasn’t written overnight – it’s the result of four long years of debate, a two-year audit of every single policy administered by the USDA, 40 hearings and two committee markups. “There are many reasons why this balanced, equitable and market-oriented farm policy legislation is deserving of support. It strengthens Title I by offering ranchers and farmers choices in how to manage risk while reforming outdated policy. This move creates regional equity among agriculture producers, increasing their choices and implementing a broad approach to production agriculture. “The bill also includes an amendment I offered with Texas Rep. Filemon Vela that would address Mexico’s failure to uphold its water obligations to the United States under a 1944 water treaty. It’s no secret that Texas has suffered a terrible drought, and there is no relief in sight. Mexico needs to begin fulfilling its obligations – our farming and ranching communities depend on it. “The farm bill also addresses the ongoing lesser prairie chicken habitat issue. An amendment I offered with New Mexico Rep. Steve Pearce and Texas Rep. Randy Neugebauer would require the Agriculture secretary to conduct a 90-day study on the cost of programs to conserve the lesser prairie chicken and its habitat. The study must also detail the conservation effectiveness of these programs and rank them based on cost effectiveness. Conservation and cost effectiveness are not mutually exclusive, and I encourage the federal government to listen and work closely with stakeholders on this issue. “Good agriculture policy is good federal policy – and this bill represents the best in agriculture policy today.”
06.26.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s decisions this morning: “I am disappointed in the Supreme Court’s decisions today, as I believe marriage is between one man and one woman. Federal legal recognition should be reserved for traditional marriage, because that is what best protects our families and our children.”
06.25.2013	A bipartisan coalition of members of the U.S. House of Representatives, led by U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-Texas), have introduced legislation to permanently repeal Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Section 526 prohibits the federal government from purchasing any fuel “unless the contract specifies that the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions associated with the production and combustion … [are] less than or equal to such emissions from the equivalent conventional fuel produced from conventional petroleum sources.” It prevents the government from buying fuel produced from domestic shale oil, coal-to-liquids technology and other synthetic sources, as these fuel sources have more energy-intensive extraction processes than conventional petroleum. This provision makes our nation less energy secure and more dependent on sources of oil from unfriendly nations, while jeopardizing thousands of jobs that depend on the continued flow of oil sands derived from crude oil. The Section 526 Repeal Act, H.R. 2478, is cosponsored by Reps. Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Bill Flores (R-Texas), Gene Green (D-Texas), Phil Gingrey (R-Ga.), Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Cynthia Lummis (R-Wyo.), Jim Matheson (D-Utah) and Nick Rahall (D-W.Va.). “The Department of Defense’s singular obligation is to protect this nation, and DoD leaders have made it clear that foreign sources of oil and price volatility present obstacles to fulfilling that obligation. Lifting the restrictions contained in Section 526 will free the military to use any technology it believes can help to confront that danger. The choice is clear: Either the military can meet its strategic fuel supply concerns or operational planning can take a back seat to environmental posturing,” Rep. Conaway said. “Section 526 restricts fuel choices for the federal government based on unsound energy policies. H.R. 2478 ensures that our military and federal agencies have access to all sources of fuel, including from renewable sources and from non-conventional sources. Repealing Section 526 will put an end to this ill-conceived law and will reduce our dependence on unstable Middle East oil. It will also help us promote American energy security, improve the American economy and create American jobs. For the past few years, Congressman Conaway and I have successfully added amendments to House appropriations bills to stop the effects of Section 526; however, H.R. 2478 will permanently stop the damaging impact of this unsound policy,” Rep. Flores said. “This bill is critical to job creation and national security. This is a commonsense provision to lessen our reliance on unstable and unfriendly regimes while putting Americans back to work. It’s time to put an end to partisan games that hinder American energy independence and delay true ‘shovel-ready’ projects,” Rep. Gingrey said. “While I support the Department of Defense’s efforts to transition to alternative sources of energy, I do want to ensure that it is done in a practical manner and does not leave DoD even more vulnerable to supply issues. Section 526 does not recognize that fuels derived from oil sands are identical to those produced from all other crude oils, whether imported or domestically produced. In fact, DoD has testified in the House Energy and Commerce Committee that it is impossible to track finished products, leaving Section 526 difficult to enforce and comply with,” Rep. Green said. “Section 526 needlessly restricts the ability of the federal government to procure a stable supply of energy from reliable allies, like Canada, and stymies the development of alternative fuel sources, like coal-to-liquids. I first introduced this legislation in 2008 because I believe that Section 526 will leave our nation less secure and more dependent on energy from volatile sources like the Middle East and Venezuela,” Rep. Hensarling said. “The military has no time to cater to unreasonable requests of environmental groups when our national security is on the line. It should be common sense that the military’s fuel needs should be met, preferably with abundant all-American energy products. I’m glad to see members on both sides of the aisle can agree on that,” Rep. Lummis said. “Our nation should invest in new energy research and technologies aimed at taking full advantage of our domestic energy resources, especially our abundant coal supplies. Repealing Section 526 and allowing our nation’s armed forces to procure synthetic fuels like coal-to-liquids would not only reduce our military’s dangerous dependence on foreign oil, but it also would jump start a domestic coal-to-liquids industry, creating well-paying American jobs here at home,” Rep. Rahall said.
06.20.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives failed to pass the farm bill: “Democrats torpedoed this important legislation for one reason: because they couldn’t accept a 2 percent cut in food stamps. These Democrats were willing to sacrifice production agriculture and the men and women who feed and clothe our country to prevent modest yet meaningful reforms to this entitlement program. I am disappointed that a discussion on the country’s nutrition and agriculture programs devolved into a spectacle of fearmongering and hyperbole. Our nation’s farmers and ranchers deserve better. “Today’s vote represents a missed opportunity for real change in Washington. This bill would have cut nearly $40 billion in spending in 10 years, ensured the sustainability of American agriculture, and made the most extensive reforms to food policy since 1996. “I am pleased, however, that the House did advance two amendments I cosponsored that would have benefited Texans, including the lesser prairie chicken and ensuring Mexico complies with a 1944 water treaty. I will continue to push these issues in the House.”
05.24.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) has been named the new chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence’s Subcommittee on Terrorism, Human Intelligence, Analysis and Counterintelligence. Rep. Conaway is also the chairman of the House Ethics Committee and a member of the Agriculture and Armed Services committees. On the Agriculture Committee, he is the chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee.
05.16.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today following the overnight tornado strike in Hood County: “Suzanne and I extend our deepest condolences to the families of those killed in these tragic storms, and I pray that God will comfort them and give strength to those injured. I commend the work of the first responders and have faith that these communities will join together to rebuild. I have reached out to officials in Granbury and Hood County to offer my support and stand ready to help in any way they need.”
05.15.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement today after full House committee passage of the farm bill: “This farm bill is the first meaningful, multi-year piece of legislation taken up since the implementation of the sequester. It cuts nearly $40 billion in spending in 10 years while ensuring the sustainability of American agriculture. “The bill strengthens Title I by putting in place a new safety net, one that will offer ranchers and farmers choices in how to manage risk while reforming outdated policy. This move creates regional equity among agriculture producers, increasing their choices and implementing a broad approach to production agriculture. Our country depends on the security that the production agriculture safety net provides, which keeps farms productive and ensures a sound American food supply. “The Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act contains the strongest reforms to the food stamp program – SNAP – since the 1996 welfare reform bill, resulting in savings of almost $20.5 billion. “Good agriculture policy is good federal policy – and this bill represents the best in agriculture policy today. I thank Chairman Lucas and Ranking Member Peterson for their hard work and dedication to this bill, and I urge my colleagues in the House to support this bill – and American agriculture – when it comes before the full House in the coming months.”
04.10.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on President Obama’s budget released today: “The president’s budget – unveiled two months late – is just more of the same from this White House. The president wants to raise another $1 trillion in new taxes while adding $61 billion to the deficit this year. And at a time when American families are cutting back, the president’s budget increases spending by $154 billion in fiscal year 2014 alone. “The president’s budget, just like the one passed by Senate Democrats, raises taxes, spends more, and never balances. “Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has already passed a budget, one that cuts government spending responsibly, enacts common-sense reforms, and balances the books in 10 years. The House has written – and passed – a blueprint for creating more jobs and opportunity in America today, and it’s disappointing that the president has failed to produce a budget that addresses our country’s spending-driven debt crisis.”
03.20.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) today praised the House Agriculture Committee’s passage of two bills he has supported that would help prevent Dodd-Frank from hurting end users and the swaps market. H.R. 1003, introduced by Rep. Conaway, would require the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to quantify the costs and benefits of future regulations and orders. It would also mandate that the commission quantify the impact of market liquidity, a marked change from the current policy of just “considering” costs. The legislation would also update the commission’s current requirements to require the examination of the impacts on the previously unregulated swaps markets, a necessary addition because of new authority given to the CFTC under Dodd-Frank. It also would require the CFTC’s chief economist be involved in the cost-benefit analysis, a recommendation made by the commission’s inspector general. Only future proposed rules would be affected; the legislation would not require retroactive analysis of pending proposals. “If regulators do not bother to calculate how much it costs to comply with a proposal or to systematically quantify what the expected benefits of a proposal will be, then they cannot make educated decisions. A clearheaded analysis of the costs and benefits of all available options must be the foundation of the regulatory process. This small mandate on the economists and lawyers at the CFTC will ensure that the burdens placed on businesses large and small are justified in the real world, not just in the pages of the Federal Register,” said Rep. Conaway, chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. The Swap Jurisdictional Certainty Act (H.R. 1256) would ensure U.S.-based financial companies are able to compete on a level playing field with their international counterparts. The bill would require that any new cross-border rules must go through a formal rulemaking process, and neither the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission nor the CFTC could finalize cross-border rules unless both agencies’ rules are identical. The legislation would also exempt foreign countries with broadly equivalent regulatory regimes for their swaps markets, which are honoring their G20 commitments, not be subject to U.S. rules. “If we get the cross-border application of Dodd-Frank wrong, the swaps trade could move permanently to foreign jurisdictions, and American end users could see the costs of the financial tools they need to compete in a global marketplace dramatically increase. The Swaps Jurisdiction Certainty Act will ensure that domestic and global swaps regulations are coherent and complementary, and it offers a common-sense approach with broad bipartisan support,” Rep. Conaway said. H.R. 1003 is cosponsored by Reps. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), Reid Ribble (R-Wisc.), David Scott (D-Ga.) and Juan Vargas (D-Calif). The Swap Jurisdictional Certainty Act was introduced by Rep. Garrett. In addition to Rep. Conaway, Reps. John Carney (D-Del.) and David Scott (D-Ga.) are also cosponsors.
03.20.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today in support of the Blunt/Pryor Senate amendment that would prevent the furloughing of Food Safety and Inspection Service meat inspectors: “Inspecting and ensuring the safety and availability of American meat products is not negotiable. I commend the Senate, in particular the leadership of Senator Roy Blunt, for working diligently to ensure that the Food Safety and Inspection Service has the funds they need to fulfill their mission. “Had a furlough gone into effect, production shutdowns would have impacted about 6,290 plants, costing more than $10 billion in production losses and $400 million in lost wages. Limited meat supplies could have driven up prices, impacting families’ ability to put food on the table. “Thanks to this amendment, these scenarios will be avoided. I look forward to supporting this continuing resolution when it reaches the House later this week.” The amendment to the pending continuing resolution would transfer $55 million in existing agriculture funds to the FSIS, ensuring that meat inspectors would not be furloughed. The amendment does not increase the cost or spending in the resolution; it transfers money otherwise allocated for school equipment grants and deferred building and facility maintenance at the U.S. Agriculture Department. Rep. Conaway, chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, asked Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack in February for answers on how the USDA plans to implement its sequester cuts. Please click here to read his letter to the secretary.
03.08.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) has introduced a bipartisan bill that would require the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to quantify the costs and benefits of future regulations and orders. The bill, H.R. 1003, would also mandate that the commission quantify the impact of market liquidity, a marked change from the current policy of just “considering” costs. Rep. Conaway, chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, also introduced this legislation in the 112th Congress, where it was reported out of the House Agriculture Committee by voice vote. “The American people deserve to know the implications of new regulations impacting the futures industry. Just as President Obama’s executive order directed government agencies to evaluate the cost of regulations on jobs and the economy, this bipartisan legislation will ensure the CFTC conducts a comprehensive qualitative and quantitative analysis of any future proposed regulations. “I look forward to working with both my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure the commission provides certainty to the marketplace on any future regulations. The commission’s actions must not artificially drive up the cost of conducting business and interfere with the proper functioning of our domestic financial system,” Rep. Conaway said. The legislation would also update the commission’s current requirements to require the examination of the impacts on the previously unregulated swaps markets, a necessary addition because of new authority given to the CFTC under Dodd-Frank. It also would require the CFTC’s chief economist be involved in the cost-benefit analysis, a recommendation made by the commission’s inspector general. Only future proposed rules would be affected; the legislation would not require retroactive analysis of pending proposals. Reps. Scott Garrett (R-N.J.), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.) and David Scott (D-Ga.) are original cosponsors of the legislation. “The staggering number of new regulations from CFTC will have serious effects on job creation in this country. It’s clear to everyone, except, apparently, the CFTC. It is imperative that economists conduct adequate cost-benefit analysis before regulations are unleashed on our economy,” said Rep. Patrick McHenry, chairman of the House Financial Services Committee’s Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee.
03.07.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) led a bipartisan letter sent today to Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel, asking for his leadership in helping the Defense Department achieve auditability by 2017. The letter was also signed by Reps. Rob Andrews (D-N.J.), Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Tim Griffin (R-Ark.), Steve Palazzo (R-Miss.) and Scott Rigell (R-Va.). All except for Rep. Griffin are members of the House Armed Services Committee. In the letter, the House members asked Secretary Hagel to “make financial management a priority within the department now and in the future.” They also requested that Secretary Hagel respond by March 22 with his views on how the DoD will achieve auditability. “As secretary of Defense, your leadership will be pivotal in maintaining the existing momentum and moving auditability forward. Your efforts will help ensure the department meets the Statement of Budgetary Resources deadline by 2014 and the overall DoD auditable financial statements deadline by 2017. In a time of financial uncertainty, our men and women in uniform and the taxpayers deserve to know how DoD spends its funds,” the members wrote. The same House members sent a letter in January to the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, urging them to question then-nominee Hagel on continuing financial management reforms if confirmed. Please click here to read that letter. Reps. Conaway, Andrews, Courtney, Palazzo and Rigell were members of the House Panel on Defense Financial Management and Auditability Reform, which concluded in January 2012 that DoD officials had taken positive steps toward completing an audit but more details were needed to complete a full audit by 2017. Rep. Conaway chaired the panel. The full text of today’s letter is below. March 7, 2013 The Honorable Chuck Hagel Secretary U.S. Department of Defense 1300 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301-1300 Dear Mr. Secretary: We would like to congratulate you on your recent appointment as secretary of Defense and thank you for your continued service to our nation. As the first enlisted veteran to serve as secretary of Defense, you have accomplished something special. We were encouraged by your recent comments about working “closely with Congress to ensure that we maintain the strongest military in the world and continue to protect our great nation.” Efforts by the Department of Defense to reform its financial management and achieve auditability have come to a pivotal intersection. Given the current fiscal constraints, eliminating waste and promoting prudent spending is imperative to using the Department’s finite resources wisely. The Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 requires all federal agencies to produce auditable financial statements. However, the Department of Defense is one of only two federal agencies that has not complied with this and subsequent laws, and continually fails to produce annual auditable financial statements. In 1995, the Government Accountability Office listed the Department on its “high risk” list for waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement, and it has remained on that list ever since. In 2011, the House Armed Services Committee formed the Panel on Defense Financial Management and Auditability Reform. The panel held eight hearings and met with dozens of witnesses during its six month review, examining the progress and impediments to reaching the goal of auditable financial statements by 2017. In the report, the panel’s findings noted that while positive steps have been taken, the department had missed milestones and had yet to effectively implement its strategy and methodology in order to reach the congressional mandates. While the department is still reliant on cumbersome, antiquated financial management systems, it is moving in a positive direction. One key component in its recent success, as identified by the most recent semiannual Financial Improvement and Audit Readiness Plan Status Report and the GAO High-Risk Series report, was leadership within the Department. Secretary Panetta placed greater emphasis on the audit effort, helping to change the culture within the department. For instance, then-Secretary Panetta moved up the deadline for the Statement of Budgetary Resources from 2017 to 2014, stressing the importance of the effort and declaring financial reform a “department-wide priority.” His guidance has helped the department make progress toward achieving auditability, and we appreciate his recognition of the importance of such an audit. As secretary of Defense, your leadership will be pivotal in maintaining the existing momentum and moving auditability forward. Your efforts will help ensure the department meets the Statement of Budgetary Resources deadline by 2014 and the overall DoD auditable financial statements deadline by 2017. In a time of financial uncertainty, our men and women in uniform and the taxpayers deserve to know how DoD spends its funds. We urge you to make financial management a priority within the department now and in the future. We request your views on how the DoD will achieve auditability under your leadership by March 22, 2013. Again, congratulations, and we look forward to your response by March 22, 2013. Sincerely, K. Michael Conaway Member of Congress Robert Andrews Member of Congress Randy Forbes Member of Congress Joe Courtney Member of Congress Tim Griffin Member of Congress Steve Palazzo Member of Congress Scott Rigell Member of Congress cc: Hon. Howard “Buck” McKeon, Chairman House Armed Services Committee Hon. Adam Smith, Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee
03.05.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding a U.S. Agriculture Department email instructing a manager not to contradict “what we said the impact would be” of the sequester: “I call on Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack to immediately and strongly denounce recent comments from an anonymous USDA official made public today calling on managers not to contradict the administration’s publicized impact of the sequester. That position, if not retracted, means Secretary Vilsack – and the Obama administration – would rather see employees be laid off and families go without paychecks than to be proven wrong on their scare-tactic talking points. The idea that the administration is purposely making minimal decreases in funding as painful as possible on the American public purely for political gain is unfathomable. “People’s jobs and livelihoods should not be toyed with for political gain. Period. “I am frustrated that Obama administration is increasingly turning the USDA and other federal agencies into messaging arms of the White House press briefing room. Further, I am appalled at the willingness of these officials to misrepresent what a minimal reduction in spending will do to agency operations, employees and Americans as a whole. Some agencies have adequately prepared for the sequester and will be able to successfully avoid furloughs. I urge Secretary Vilsack to condemn this position in the strongest terms possible and reassure the American people that agencies are being operated in the public – not political – interest
03.01.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement on today’s sequester deadline: “The House of Representatives, which comprises one-half of one-third of the branches of the federal government, has passed two bills to mitigate the effects of the sequester and make smart choices on where spending can be cut. We’ve waited on the president and the Democrat-controlled Senate to act, and their inaction is why the sequester is kicking in. “While the ways the sequester cuts federal spending are in no way preferable or efficient, we cannot afford to do nothing. Spending must be reduced. Our growing deficit and debt cannot be ignored any longer. The only action less preferable than the implementation of these cuts would be to allow the status quo to continue in Washington. “However, in the process of cutting spending, we cannot allow the administration to get away with presenting false choices to the American people. Saying no to the president’s tax hikes does not have to result in drastic cuts to essential services, such as the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s plan to furlough Food Safety and Inspection Service meat inspectors. Indiscriminately furloughing federal meat inspectors would severely damage the availability of American meat products and drive up prices. “Essential services should not be threatened to make a political point, and I am extremely disappointed with the administration for perpetrating fear mongering. Sequestration is estimated to cut just more than 1 percent of fiscal year 2013’s overall federal budget. I urge the administration and agency leaders to work with the House to identify wasteful spending and to create a more efficient and fiscally responsible federal government.” The two House-passed bills from the 112th Congress are: H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act, which would replace sequestration cuts to defense and discretionary spending with cuts to mandatory spending programs. Mandatory spending programs are the main driver of the deficit. H.R. 6684, the Spending Reduction Act of 2012, which would offset the sequestration cuts to defense and non-defense discretionary spending with much-needed reforms to entitlement programs. Entitlements currently consume more than 60 percent of the federal budget, a percentage that is expected to only increase in coming years.
02.28.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) today announced that the Fish and Wildlife Service will reopen the public comment period on the potential listing of the lesser prairie chicken as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Director Daniel Ashe announced the decision in a Feb. 27 letter to Rep. Conaway. Rep. Conaway joined eight of his House colleagues earlier this month in asking Director Ashe for at least a 60-day extension of the comment period and at least a 90-day extension of the final listing deadline for the proposed rule to add the lesser prairie chicken to the Endangered Species Act’s threatened list. Please click here to read that letter. Rep. Conaway, chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, thanked Director Ashe for reopening the comments. “Texas farmers and landowners are rightly concerned about the proposed rule’s impact on their land and their livelihoods. I believe there are no better stewards of our nation’s natural resources than those who work and depend on the land. I appreciate the Fish and Wildlife Service’s recognition that it must work with farmers and landowners, and I look forward to hearing the responses gathered when the comment period is reopened,” Rep. Conaway said. The Feb. 7 letter to Director Ashe was also signed by Reps. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Doc Hastings (R-Wash.), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kansas), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Stevan Pearce (R-N.M.), Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) and Mac Thornberry (R-Texas). The full text of the letter from Director Ashe is below: February 27, 2013 The Honorable Michael Conaway House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Representative Conaway: Thank you for your letter of Feb. 7, 2013, also signed by several of your colleagues, regarding the proposed listing of the lesser prairie chicken under the Endangered Species Act. As you referenced in your letter, the five state fish and wildlife agencies, working together under the auspices of the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, are developing a range-wide conservation plan for the letter prairie chicken. Because the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service expects that range-wide plan to inform our listing determination, we will re-open the comment period upon receipt so that the public can comment on the plan and any other information relevant to the proposed listing rule. The service committed through a court-approved settlement agreement to complete a final listing determination for the lesser prairie chicken by Sept. 30, 2013, unless we find that substantial disagreement regarding the sufficiency or accuracy of the available data relevant to the determination requires additional time. While we have no basis to make that finding at the present time, we will revisit the question of whether an extension is needed after the close of the final comment periods later this spring. The service appreciates how private landowners, companies and public management agencies have been working to manage habitat and conserve the species, and we recognize that we cannot restore, protect and reconnect habitat for the lesser prairie chicken without the voluntary assistance of these entities. It is the service’s intent to work with our partners and private landowners to keep the lesser prairie chicken on the landscape, reverse its decline, and help the species coexist with those who make their living from the land. To this end, we have provided an expedited review of the draft Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurance for oil and gas, and look forward to continuing to work with WAFWA on that aspect of the conservation plan. Thank you again for you interest in conservation of the lesser prairie chicken. Previous commitments prevent me from meeting with you personally under the third week of March, but I am tracking this issue closely and am encouraged by the conservation planning efforts underway. Sincerely, Daniel Ashe Director
02.20.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, has asked Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack for answers on how the U.S. Agriculture Department plans to implement its sequester cuts. The agency announced a few weeks ago that it may furlough USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service meat inspectors if sequestration goes into effect March 1. As the secretary has not made public how the agency will continue to comply with the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Production Inspection Act’s requirements to inspect meat, Rep. Conaway asked for a thorough analysis. “I am concerned that your plan to furlough FSIS inspectors is impractical and misguided, as it could prevent FSIS from meeting its responsibilities to packers, processors and consumers. … This industry and American consumers depend on the services provided by FSIS inspectors to ensure a safe and healthy food supply,” Rep. Conaway wrote in a letter to Secretary Vilsack today. The USDA has said that production shutdowns would affect about 6,290 plants, costing more than $10 billion in production losses and $400 million in lost wages. Limited meat supplies would likely drive up prices, impacting families’ ability to put food on the table. The full text of the letter is below. February 20, 2013 Honorable Tom Vilsack Secretary of Agriculture U.S. Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave. SW Washington, D.C. 20250-3700 Dear Mr. Secretary, I am concerned about your recent comments on how the sequester will impact the agricultural community. I understand that the sequester demands difficult across-the-board-cuts within each program at the USDA, and I do not fault you for making tough decisions. However, our nation’s agricultural producers need you to manage these cuts in a way that protects them from as much harm as possible. The Food Safety and Inspection Service has an obligation to inspect the nation’s meat and poultry for safety under the Federal Meat Inspection Act and the Poultry Production Inspection Act. I am concerned that your plan to furlough FSIS inspectors is impractical and misguided, as it could prevent FSIS from meeting its responsibilities to packers, processors and consumers. On Feb. 8, you stated that the FSIS would be forced to “furlough over 6,000 food inspectors for two to three weeks”. You also acknowledged that the affects of this decision would have severe implications on the industry, including the closure of inspection plants, the potential to compromise the safety of nation’s meat supply, lost wages for several hundred thousand employees, and rising meat prices for consumers. USDA also confirmed “the impact could force smaller businesses and merchants out of business. Industry workers would also be furloughed resulting in over $400 million in lost wages”. This decision, if implemented, could disrupt the flow of commerce and the lives of millions of Americans, starting with meat and poultry industry and ending at America’s dinner table. According to the American Meat Institute, furloughing FSIS inspectors is estimated to cost $10 billion in production losses to the industry. This industry and American consumers depend on the services provided by FSIS inspectors to ensure a safe and healthy food supply. In order to more fully understand your rationale, I am requesting a detailed explanation of how the USDA plans to roll out its sequester cuts and a thorough analysis of how the USDA will continue fulfill its legal obligations under FMIA and PPIA should these cuts be implemented. I would appreciate your response by Monday, Feb. 25, 2013. Respectfully, K. Michael Conaway Member, House Committee on Agriculture Chairman, Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management
02.15.2013	U.S. Representatives K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) and Gene Green (D-Texas) today reintroduced the bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act (H. Con. Res. 16), which would oppose any new fees, taxes or royalties for music played on local radio stations. The resolution has 71 additional original cosponsors. The recording industry has lobbied for a new “performance tax,” which would require local radio stations to pay a fee for each song they play on air. Local radio already provides free advertising and promotion for the recording industry, and these fees could put the future of these stations in jeopardy. Local radio provides valuable community services – emergency alerts, local news and weather, community programming and AMBER alerts – and our towns can’t afford to lose these stations. “Communities rely on their local radio stations for news, weather alerts and other emergency broadcasts, and the suggested performance tax could jeopardize the future of many of these struggling stations. I’m pleased so many of my House colleagues have joined with me in supporting local radio stations and listeners while pushing back against punitive fees,” Rep. Conaway said. “I’m glad to join Mr. Conaway and many of our colleagues again in introducing this important resolution to preserve free over-the-air broadcast. Radio provides a great service to people, no matter their income, age, or education, and it’s an important part of maintaining an informed and engaged society. We can’t introduce a new system of fees that will cut people’s access to public safety information, news, weather, or entertainment,” Rep. Green said. This resolution is identical to H. Con. Res. 21, which Reps. Conaway and Green introduced in the 112th Congress. The original cosponsors are: Reps. Rodney Alexander (R-La.), Jo Bonner (R-Ala), Charles Boustany (R-La.), G.K. Butterfield (D-N.C.), Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), Shelley Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Michael Capuano (D-Ma.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Ander Crenshaw (R-Fla.), Charlie Dent (R-Pa.), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-Fla.), John Dingell (D-Mich.), Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), Mike Fitzpatrick (R-Pa.), John Fleming (R-La.), Bill Flores (R-Texas), Phil Gingrey (R-Ga.), Kay Granger (R-Texas), Gregg Harper (R-Miss.), Alcee Hastings (D-Fla.), Doc Hastings (R-Wash.), Ruben Hinojosa (D-Texas), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.), Randy Hultgren (R-Ill.), David Joyce (R-Ohio), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), John Kline (R-Minn.), Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Leonard Lance (R-N.J.), Dave Loebsack (D-Iowa), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Carolyn McCarthy (D-N.Y.), Patrick McHenry (R-N.C.), Gregory Meeks (D-N.Y.), Mike Michaud (D-Maine), Jeff Miller (R-Fla.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Alan Nunnelee (R-Miss.), Pete Olson (R-Texas), Steve Pearce (R-N.M.), Tom Petri (R-Wisc.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.), Charles Rangel (D-N.Y.), Harold Rogers (R-Ky.), Mike Rogers (R-Ala.), Mike Rogers (R-Mich.), Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Jon Runyan (R-N.J.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio), John Sarbanes (D-Md.), David Schweikert (R-Ariz.), Pete Sessions (R-Texas), John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), Lee Terry (R-Neb.), Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), Patrick Tiberi (R-Ohio), Michael Turner (R-Ohio), Pete Visclosky (D-Ind.), Tim Walberg (R-Mich.), Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Lynn Westmoreland (R-Ga.), Rob Wittman (R-Va.), Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) and Steve Womack (R-Ark.).
02.15.2013	U.S. Representatives K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) and Brad Sherman (D-Calif.) and U.S. Senators Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) and Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.) announced today the organization of the Congressional Caucus on CPAs and Accountants for the 113th Congress. Caucuses must be reformed and reapproved each Congress. The caucus will allow Congress’ 12 CPAs and accountants a forum to discuss and advance innovative policies on issues affecting CPAs, including tax administration and compliance, accounting and auditing standards. The caucus’ members will also use their accountancy experience to provide input on budgetary and fiscal issues. Other members are Reps. John Campbell (R-Calif.), Bill Flores (R-Texas), Lynn Jenkins (R-Kan.), Patrick Murphy (D-Fla.), Steven Palazzo (R-Miss.), Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Jim Renacci (R-Ohio) and Tom Rice (R-S.C.). “The members of the Congressional Caucus on CPAs and Accountants have specialized experience in budgeting, taxes and accounting. We know what it means to draft a budget – and stick to it. I look forward to working with my fellow CPAs and accountants in Congress to share our perspectives and knowledge with the rest of our colleagues,” Rep. Conaway said. “The CPA caucus allows us to educate our colleagues about the importance of the accounting profession to American business and to share our expertise in financial accounting, budgeting and tax administration. Our bipartisan, bicameral structure ensures that members on both sides of the aisle in both the House and Senate get a straightforward CPA perspective to the critical fiscal and budgeting issues facing the country,” Rep. Sherman said. “Fiscal sanity begins with knowing the numbers, and no one knows numbers better than accountants. I am honored to remain a co-chair of the congressional CPA caucus, and I’m glad to see more accountants in legislative positions. I look forward to working with my colleagues to address our fiscal crisis and to get America’s finances in order,” Sen. Enzi said. “I’ve always said that Washington needs more people with practical, private sector experience – and that Congress could use more elected officials with a background managing budgets. I’m pleased to be joining with colleagues on both sides of the aisle who bring this sort of experience. Hopefully a team of accountants will help drive fiscal responsibility,” Sen. Johnson said.
02.14.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement on the announcement that U.S. Agriculture Department meat inspectors may be furloughed if the sequester goes into effect: “USDA’s threat of furloughing federal meat inspectors would severely damage the availability of American meat products. Essential services should not be threatened to make a political point, and ensuring the safety of American meat products is one of the most critical services provided by the U.S. Food Safety and Inspection Service. “The USDA itself has even acknowledged how harmful these furloughs would be on American families and workers. The USDA has said that production shutdowns would affect about 6,290 plants, costing more than $10 billion in production losses and $400 million in lost wages. Limited meat supplies would likely drive up prices, impacting families’ ability to put food on the table. The USDA’s threat to enact these punitive furloughs is irresponsible and indicates the administration’s willingness to play politics with people’s livelihoods and our food supply. “Inspecting and ensuring the safety and availability of American meat products is not negotiable. If the USDA’s leadership feels furloughs are necessary to comply with the sequester, they need to provide justification and explain why no other cuts are possible. As chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, I will continue to press the USDA for answers on how it would implement the sequester and the decision-making process behind its cuts.”
02.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s State of the Union address: “President Obama asserts that America is moving in the right direction. But a nation that has $16 trillion in debt and 22.7 million unemployed citizens is moving in exactly the wrong direction. “The president speaks of the need to halt the rise in government borrowing and to stabilize our debt. Stabilizing our debt isn’t enough; we must reduce it. Halting the rise in borrowing isn’t enough; we must learn to live within our means and break our dependence on deficit spending. “We cannot continue to spend what we do not have, and we cannot continue to depress this economy by trying to borrow and tax our way to prosperity. “In addition to strengthening our economy, we must also ensure that the freedoms promised to Americans in the Constitution are protected and defended. The gun control measures proposed by the president would deprive law-abiding citizens of their constitutional rights, and these overreaching measures will not pass Congress. I will strongly stand in opposition of any new legislation that would restrict the constitutional rights of Americans to keep and bear arms.”
02.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas), chairman of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement on today’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service lesser prairie chicken hearing in Lubbock: “I appreciate the Fish and Wildlife Service’s willingness to engage with stakeholders on this important issue, and I urge them to take what they hear at today’s hearing and consider it thoughtfully before issuing a final rule on the lesser prairie chicken. “Texas farmers and landowners are concerned about the proposed rule’s impact on their land and their livelihoods, and I believe there are no better stewards of our resources than those who work and depend on the land. Wildlife and our natural resources are best managed at the local level, and I look forward to hearing the service’s response to the concerns, proposals and thoughts shared at the hearing,” Rep. Conaway said. While Rep. Conaway was not able to attend today’s hearing, he did send a video statement and a staff representative. The congressman also joined eight of his House colleagues in asking Fish and Wildlife Service Director Daniel Ashe for at least a 60-day extension of the comment period and at least a 90-day extension of the final listing deadline for the proposed rule to add the lesser prairie chicken to the Endangered Species Act’s threatened list. The letter was also signed by Reps. Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Doc Hastings (R-Wash.), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kansas), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Stevan Pearce (R-N.M.), Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) and Mac Thornberry (R-Texas). The full text of the letter is below. February 7, 2013 The Honorable Daniel M. Ashe Director U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1849 C St. NW Washington, D.C. 20240-0001 RE: Federal Register Docket No. FWS-R2-ES-2012-0071, Proposed Rule listing the Lesser Prairie Chicken as Threatened under the Endangered Species Act Dear Director Ashe: We are writing to request at least a 60-day extension of the comment period and at least a 90-day extension of the final listing deadline for the proposed rule to list the lesser prairie chicken (LPC) as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. We also request that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), in coordination with the Western Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies (WAFWA), expedite consideration and approval of the proposed Candidate Conservation Agreement with Assurances (CCAA) for oil and gas activities that occur within LPC habitat. Lastly, we request an in-person meeting with you to discuss the proposed listing and pending CCAA proposals as soon as possible. First, we request that FWS extend the public comment period by at least 60 days to give stakeholders in the geographic, five-state area it would impact sufficient time and flexibility to provide FWS with information on the most up-to-date science and conservation actions upon which FWS will base its final listing decision for the LPC. A 60-day extension of the public comment period, beyond the current deadline of March 11, 2013, would allow additional, necessary time for: 1) The five state fish and wildlife agencies to finalize and submit the LPC range-wide conservation plan; 2) Oklahoma and Texas to enroll more acreage under their respective ranching CCAAs and demonstrate proactive conservation actions; 3) FWS to review, finalize, and issue the current draft CCAA for the oil and gas industry and possibly allow acreage enrollment under this CCAA before the comment period closes; 4) FWS to respond to any requests from counties for additional public meetings beyond the four already planned and for the public to more fully engage and comment on the proposed listing; 5) State fish and wildlife agencies to host public meetings within the LPC range to gather important public feedback which will be considered and potentially incorporated into states’ actions or plans for LPC conservation; and 6) State agencies to complete this spring's aerial population survey which will be conducted in the month of April. We believe the data and information that could be provided to FWS during an extension of the public comment period would benefit the conservation decisions affecting the LPC and would also help address the concerns of citizens, private landowners, farmers, ranchers, and industry that depend upon these lands for jobs and rural economic development. Second, we request that FWS extend the final listing deadline by at least 90 days, currently set for Sept. 30, 2013. This is an arbitrary deadline based on the Interior Department’s own lawsuit settlement, and it does not account for realistic time constraints or the ongoing conservation efforts at the state and local level. Moreover, since the proposed rule was submitted on Dec. 11, 2012, the current deadline imposes a truncated rulemaking process that could hinder FWS’ ability to fully review the submitted public comments and make a transparent and justifiable determination. We also understand that FWS recently provided comments on the preliminary draft of WAFWA’s proposed CCAA for oil and gas activities that occur within LPC habitat. We ask that you continue to work with WAFWA on this proposal and swiftly approve the plan. It is critical that the affected states have as much time and flexibility as possible to enroll acreage under this CCAA, and any delay in approval, combined with the short comment period and final listing deadlines, would impede WAFWA and the affected stakeholders from substantively engaging in conservation measures at the state and local level. Lastly, we request a meeting with you as soon as possible to discuss these issues, as well as the pending CCAA proposals and current efforts at the state and local level to conserve the species while protecting the livelihoods of landowners and other stakeholders. It is of the utmost importance to us and our constituents that we remain up-to-date and fully informed on the listing process. We also hope to directly express to you our concerns about the proposed rule and our interest in participating in an open and scientific process. Your prompt consideration of these requests is greatly appreciated and we look forward to your response and the opportunity to discuss in person in the near future. Sincerely, Randy Neugebauer Member of Congress K. Michael Conaway Member of Congress Chairman, House Agriculture Committee Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Doc Hastings Member of Congress Chairman, House Natural Resources Committee Frank Lucas Member of Congress Chairman, House Agriculture Committee Mac Thornberry Member of Congress Stevan Pearce Member of Congress Tim Huelskamp Member of Congress Cory Gardner Member of Congress Mike Pompeo Member of Congress
01.30.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) led a bipartisan letter sent today to the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee urging them to question Defense secretary nominee Chuck Hagel on continuing financial management reforms if confirmed. The letter was also signed by Reps. Rob Andrews (D-N.J.), Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Joe Courtney (D-Conn.), Tim Griffin (R-Ark.), Steve Palazzo (R-Miss.) and Scott Rigell (R-Va.). All except for Rep. Griffin are members of the House Armed Services Committee. In the letter, the House members asked Sens. Carl Levin (D-Mich.) and Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.) to question former Sen. Hagel on his commitment to modernizing the DoD’s financial management systems and achieving audit readiness. “In this era of shrinking budgets and growing commitments, our men and women in uniform and the American taxpayers deserve to know how every dime appropriated for the Department of Defense is spent. Please take this opportunity to establish Senator Hagel’s personal commitment to financial management improvement and audit readiness,” the members wrote. Reps. Conaway, Andrews, Courtney, Palazzo and Rigell were members of the House Panel on Defense Financial Management and Auditability Reform, which concluded in January 2012 that DoD officials had taken positive steps toward completing an audit but more details were needed to complete a full audit by 2017. Rep. Conaway chaired the panel. The full text of the letter is below. January 30, 2013 The Honorable Carl Levin Chairman Committee on Armed Services United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 The Honorable James M. Inhofe Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 Dear Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member, The Department of Defense’s financial management system is of common interest to many of those serving in the House of Representatives and the Senate. In the 1990s, Congress passed a series of laws establishing modern financial management standards and requiring all federal agencies, including the DoD, to produce annual auditable financial statements. The DoD has been listed on the Government Accountability Office’s “High Risk” list for waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement since 1995, and it has failed to produce a clean audit opinion. As members of the House and Senate have agreed, the inability to audit the DoD is no longer acceptable. In this time of reduced budgets, the DoD must be capable of issuing auditable financial statements to ensure every dollar spent is adequately accounted for and used to its maximum potential. Under the focused leadership of Secretary Panetta, the department made substantial strides toward auditing one of the largest organizations in the world, and it is imperative that the next Secretary demonstrate a personal commitment to this issue. The importance of the secretary of Defense’s leadership on this issue cannot be overstated. The department’s advances toward audit readiness have reached a decisive point, and continued progress will require leadership from the top. We believe that Senator Chuck Hagel’s coming confirmation hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee presents an opportunity to address shared concerns and to fully explore Senator Hagel’s commitment to modernizing the department’s financial management systems. Specifically, while on record, Senator Hagel should be asked if he would emphasize financial management improvement and audit readiness as top priorities, and whether he would provide the personal leadership necessary to complete necessary reforms. Members of the House Armed Services Committee have worked closely with Secretary Panetta and DoD leadership on the department’s efforts to become audit ready and to produce a clean audit opinion. We hope to continue this positive working relationship with the next secretary. In this era of shrinking budgets and growing commitments, our men and women in uniform and the American taxpayers deserve to know how every dime appropriated for the Department of Defense is spent. Please take this opportunity to establish Senator Hagel’s personal commitment to financial management improvement and audit readiness. Sincerely, K. Michael Conaway Member of Congress Robert Andrews Member of Congress Randy Forbes Member of Congress Joe Courtney Member of Congress Tim Griffin Member of Congress Steve Palazzo Member of Congress Scott Rigell Member of Congress cc: Hon. Howard “Buck” McKeon, Chairman House Armed Services Committee Hon. Adam Smith, Ranking Member House Armed Services Committee
01.23.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today after voting yes on the No Budget, No Pay Act, which passed the House 285-144. “If we are to get our fiscal house in order, we must start by passing a fiscally responsible budget, one that cuts spending and uses taxpayer dollars wisely. House leadership has presented two consecutive budgets that confront our nation’s spending problem, while Senate Democrats have failed to pass a budget for nearly four years. It’s time for that to end. “The Senate must join the House in presenting a budget to the American people that cuts spending and holds the government accountable. We cannot afford to consider a long-term increase in the debt limit without first addressing our spending addiction,” Rep. Conaway said.
01.14.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today reiterating his support for ensuring and protecting Americans’ Second Amendment rights: “Our Founding Fathers saw firsthand the importance of ensuring and protecting the right to keep and bear arms. This right, enumerated in the Constitution, is a guarantee against tyranny and oppression. “As a gun owner, I am proud to defend the Second Amendment and the constitutionally protected right of Americans to keep and bear arms. I will continue to fervently oppose legislation that would impinge on the freedom and rights of law-abiding Americans to own and carry firearms.”
01.03.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) was sworn in today for his fifth term as a member of the U.S. House of Representatives. Rep. Conaway and wife Suzanne join Speaker of the House John Boehner for a ceremonial swearing-in photo. “I am humbled by the opportunity to serve the citizens of District 11 for a fifth term in Congress,” Rep. Conaway said. “I will continue to travel across the district listening to Texans, and the stories I hear from them will help drive my decisions in Washington. We have many challenges ahead in the coming months, but I look forward to working with my colleagues to help put our country on a sound fiscal path.” Rep. Conaway is the chairman of the House Ethics Committee and a member of the House Agriculture, Armed Services, and Intelligence committees. On the Agriculture Committee, he is the chairman of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management.
01.02.2013	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement today regarding his no vote on the fiscal cliff deal: “While I am relieved that taxes will not be raised on 98 percent of Americans and that the farm bill will be extended for another year, this bill had serious flaws. This legislation included extraneous, unnecessary tax extenders that were not relevant to resolving the fiscal cliff and should not have been included. “In addition, the two-month sequester postponement was merely a fig leaf. The House had a separate bill that would have postponed the sequester for one year while implementing meaningful additional spending reductions, which would have gone a long way to helping cure our nation’s spending woes. “For these reasons, I voted no on this bill. Washington’s out-of-control spending remains our country’s greatest problem, and this bill did not address that crisis. I look forward to working with my House colleagues on legislation to put our nation back on a sound fiscal path.”
12.20.2012	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) announced today that he will serve a second term as the chairman of the House Agriculture Committee’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. The subcommittee oversees the farm bill’s commodity title, crop insurance and commodity exchange laws. This will be Rep. Conaway’s third term as the top Republican on a House Agriculture subcommittee; he was previously the ranking member on the Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. “During my second term leading the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management subcommittee, I will work to pass a farm bill that is good for Texas and the country while helping to protect our crop insurance program. I will also strive to protect the integrity of our commodity exchanges, ensuring that these markets will remain in the United States and will continue to serve as dependable risk management venues. “This Agriculture subcommittee oversees three issues of vital economic importance to Texas’ 11th congressional district – commodity exchanges, commodity title, and crop insurance. I thank Agriculture Chairman Lucas and Speaker Boehner for the confidence they have placed in me and look forward to this opportunity to serve,” Rep. Conaway said. “I am pleased to have Congressman Conaway continue as the chair of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. He remains a strong advocate for American agriculture and rural economies with extensive knowledge of the issues our producers face,” said Chairman Frank D. Lucas (R-Okla.). As chairman of the subcommittee, Rep. Conaway has successfully defended crop insurance and the farm bill from unfair attacks while helping to develop sound farm legislation that will save taxpayers more than $35 billion. Rep. Conaway, a certified public accountant, has also conducted vigorous oversight of the commodity exchanges and their regulators to ensure viability and accountability. Rep. Conaway was also named this week as the chairman of the House Ethics Committee for the 113th Congress. He is also a member of the House Armed Services and Intelligence committees.
12.20.2012	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) led a bipartisan letter sent to Commodity Futures Trade Commission Chairman Gary Gensler and commissioners today asking for answers on how the commission will regulate cross-border derivatives transactions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act establishes new rules for these transactions. Today’s letter follows a House Agriculture General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee hearing, which examined the impact the commission’s proposed cross-border guidance would have on the international derivatives market. In the letter, Rep. Conaway and 13 other House Agriculture Committee members asked the CFTC to detail its plan of action on regulating these important cross-border derivatives transactions. “Ultimately, if Dodd-Frank is not implemented correctly, American end-users who use swaps to manage everyday business risks may have fewer counterparties. Fewer counterparties will mean less competition and less liquidity in the markets, which will lead to higher costs and a higher concentration of risk in the United States. Further, American financial institutions can and will lose business to foreign competitors if Title VII rules are not implemented in proper coordination and sequence with other international reform efforts. “We are hopeful that the CFTC will allow a thoughtful, deliberate and reasoned implementation of Title VII so new rules do not needlessly disrupt the U.S. and global derivatives marketplace,” the members wrote. The letter was also signed by Reps. Rick Crawford (R-Ark.), Renee Ellmers (R-N.C.), Bob Gibbs (R-Ohio), Chris Gibson (R-N.Y.), Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Martha Roby (R-Ala.), Austin Scott (R-Ga.), David Scott (D-Ga.), Terri Sewell (D-Ala.) and Jean Schmidt (R-Ohio). The full text of the letter is below. December 20, 2012 The Honorable Gary Gensler, Chairman The Honorable Jill Sommers, Commissioner The Honorable Bart Chilton, Commissioner The Honorable Scott O’Malia, Commissioner The Honorable Mark Wetjen, Commissioner U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21st St. NW Washington, D.C. 20581 Dear Chairman Gensler and Commissioners Sommers, Chilton, O’Malia and Wetjen: The Dec. 31, 2012, compliance deadline is rapidly approaching for a variety of new regulations created under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (P.L. 111-203) (Dodd-Frank). Unfortunately, you are all well-aware that widespread confusion and concern still persists among global market participants and international regulators regarding the implementation of these new rules, especially with respect to exactly how the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) plans to regulate cross-border derivatives transactions. On Dec. 13, 2012, the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management held a hearing where Commissioners Sommers and Chilton testified alongside top regulators from Japan and the European Commission. Combined, the three regulatory jurisdictions represented by witnesses at our hearing comprised an overwhelming majority of the global derivatives marketplace. Based on testimony the subcommittee received, we are very concerned that a lack of coordination between both foreign and domestic regulators could soon lead to a disruption of the derivatives markets. With our economy facing an uncertain future, we can ill-afford to implement reforms without a good faith attempt to cooperate with the international community so we do not negatively impact global markets. For example, Mr. Masamichi Kono with the Financial Services Agency of Japan (who also serves as chairman of the International Organization of Securities Commissions) testified during the hearing that “much needs to be done” by the CFTC and that “it is important that the details of the applicable laws and regulations are made clear as much as possible before their implementation in order to minimize regulatory uncertainty.” Further, with respect to minimizing risk in the marketplace, a goal central to the creation of the Dodd-Frank Act, Mr. Kono testified that “such risks need not be addressed by extraterritorial application of the U.S. laws and regulations; rather, the U.S. authorities could rely on foreign regulators upon establishing of course that the foreign regulators have the required authority and competence to exercise appropriate regulation and oversight over those entities and activities. This is what we consider as the most efficient and effective approach, in line with the principles of international comity between sovereign jurisdictions.” Again, with respect to reducing risk in the marketplace, Mr. Patrick Pearson with the European Commission testified that if regulatory conflicts between the United States and 27 member nations of the European Union are not resolved “trades will not be able to be cleared. If they can’t be cleared, they won’t take place. This means that firms and users will not hedge their risks, or firms will hedge their risks but they will only take place within one jurisdiction, which means that risk will be concentrated in one jurisdiction on the planet. That could be the United States. If your firms can’t hedge their risks outside of the United States, they’ll have to hedge them here. The consequences of that is obviously a fragmented market and a significant concentration of financial risk in the U.S. system, and this is exactly what we tried to prevent with our global regulatory reform.” With respect to domestic regulatory coordination, we also have significant concerns that two different definitions of “U.S. person” may arise between the CFTC and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We must avoid the illogical creation of a disparate regulatory environment that would result in the same market participant being deemed a “U.S. person” for trading swaps while simultaneously considering them a “non-U.S. person” for trading security-based swaps. Ultimately, if Dodd-Frank is not implemented correctly, American end-users who use swaps to manage everyday business risks may have fewer counterparties. Fewer counterparties will mean less competition and less liquidity in the markets, which will lead to higher costs and a higher concentration of risk in the United States. Further, American financial institutions can and will lose business to foreign competitors if Title VII rules are not implemented in proper coordination and sequence with other international reform efforts. We are hopeful that the CFTC will allow a thoughtful, deliberate and reasoned implementation of Title VII so new rules do not needlessly disrupt the U.S. and global derivatives marketplace. Thank you for your prompt attention and response detailing your plan of action prior to Dec. 31. Sincerely, K. Michael Conaway Chairman Committee on Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management David Scott Member, Committee on Agriculture Steve King Member, Committee on Agriculture Terri Sewell Member, Committee on Agriculture Randy Neugebauer Member, Committee on Agriculture Jean Schmidt Member, Committee on Agriculture Bob Gibbs Member, Committee on Agriculture Austin Scott Member, Committee on Agriculture Rick Crawford Member, Committee on Agriculture Martha Roby Member, Committee on Agriculture Tim Huelskamp Member, Committee on Agriculture Renee Ellmers Member, Committee on Agriculture Chris Gibson Member, Committee on Agriculture Vicky Hartzler Member, Committee on Agriculture Cc: The Honorable Timothy Geithner, Secretary, U.S. Department of the Treasury The Honorable Elisse Walter, Chairman, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
12.18.2012	U.S. Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) issued the following statement after signing the National Defense Authorization Act’s conference report today. The bill authorizes and establishes Defense Department priorities and spending levels for fiscal year 2013. Rep. Conaway served as a conferee to the conference committee, which ironed out differences between the House and Senate bills. “This important bill works to ensure that our troops around the world will have the equipment, training and resources they need to fulfill their missions and return home safely. It also provides financial peace of mind for our warriors and their families by shoring up military pay and benefits. I am pleased to have helped negotiate this bill and look forward to seeing it signed into law soon.”
12.18.2012	WASHINGTON – Today U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) and U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-Texas) released the following statements after the Senate passed a bill renaming the federal building and U.S. Courthouse in Midland, TX after former Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush: “It’s my distinct honor to help preserve the legacy of two great leaders and Texans as they continue to leave their mark on this nation, and I cannot think of a better way to do that than by memorializing them in Midland,” said Sen. Cornyn. “In their 20 years of service in the White House, Presidents George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush distinguished themselves as exemplary American leaders. Renaming this courthouse in Midland is a meaningful tribute to these two great Texans,” Rep. Conaway said. The bill, originally sponsored by Rep. Conaway and passed by the House of Representatives in 2011, will redesignate the Federal building and United States Courthouse located at 200 East Wall Street in Midland, Texas, as the "George H. W. Bush and George W. Bush United States Courthouse and George Mahon Federal Building."
12.05.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement after the Senate passed the FY2013 National Defense Authorization Act. “Yesterday, the Senate passed the FY 2013 National Defense Authorization Act, thus authorizing spending for our Department of Defense for the upcoming year. I congratulate my colleagues on passage of this important legislation for our warfighter. However, I remain concerned about several provisions included that will hinder our readiness and waste scarce dollars inside the Department. “One such amendment allows the military to purchase biofuels that are far more expensive than traditional petroleum products. Instead of buying jet fuel at $4 a gallon, the Navy will purchase bio-diesel at a whopping $27 a gallon. “I am particularly concerned with an amendment that will allow the Department of Defense to develop their own biofuel refineries. I take issue with this unnecessary authority granted to the Pentagon that will allow them to subsidize and develop their own biofuels industry through an abuse of the Defense Production Act. “These amendments are senseless and wasteful, especially at a time when our military is already facing enormous budget constraints. Today, only half of our deployed Navy aircraft are mission ready at any given time and approximately one fifth of our Navy ships are not combat ready at all. “It is not the job of the Department of Defense to develop the biofuel industry and I will continue to oppose this wrongheaded policy as we move into conference on this bill. ###
11.16.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement today on the train accident in Midland. "Suzanne and I are deeply saddened by the events in Midland last night. Our heartfelt prayers are with the Heroes and their families who have been affected by this tragedy. I am comforted in knowing that the citizens of Midland and all of their neighbors are waiting with open arms to care for injured and grieve with those who lost loved ones. "I have offered my support to Mayor Perry, Judge Bradford, and all of the first responders, and my office stands ready to assist them in obtaining any resources that they need. "I would ask, as so many other already have, that we continue to pull together as a community to help and support one another. Please keep our Heroes, their families, Terry Johnson, and the entire Hunt for Heroes organization in your prayers today and in the coming weeks ahead." ###
11.15.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement today: “I commend the House Committee on Financial Services for producing a thorough account of the MF Global collapse. Do not assume the intent of this report was to provoke the perennial argument about merging the CFTC and SEC. A jurisdictional fight between committees is quite possibly the least helpful thing Congress can do for MF Global’s customers right now. “We would do a disservice to our constituents if we read through this report and simply assume that a new super-regulator would have prevented MF Global. The fact is, the CFTC and the SEC regulate markets that have fundamentally different purposes and serve investors that need fundamentally different protections. One regulator cannot fit all. “Regardless, my focus remains on rebuilding the trust that was shattered in the wake of the collapse of MF Global. I will continue to work diligently with regulators, self-regulatory organizations, and end-users to ensure that my customer segregated funds will never again be lost when a firm goes bankrupt.” Congressman Conaway is the Chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee which possess jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops. ###
09.21.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement today on passage of the Coal Miner Employment and Domestic Energy Infrastructure Protection Act (H.R. 3409). “President Obama’s war on American energy is as real as it is dangerous and misguided, and coal is no exception. Today, I proudly supported the passage of H.R. 3409, the Stop the War on Coal Act to stop this administration’s efforts to eliminate a key part of our domestic energy mix, the American coal industry. Coal provides over 45% of our nation’s electricity and is the primary source of the abundant, inexpensive electric power that makes our people the most productive on earth. “As a candidate, President Obama promised Americans that ‘if somebody wants to build a coal-powered plant, they can; it's just that it will bankrupt them.’” He went on to tell consumers that if he becomes president, ‘electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket.’ “For the past three years, he has been fulfilling those promises with a vengeance. The avalanche of regulations coming out of Washington are threatening to close hundreds of coal-fired power plants across the country, putting Americans out of work, and driving up electricity costs for businesses and families at the very time they cannot afford to pay more. “With today’s vote, House Republicans have said enough is enough. The crisis facing our unemployed family members and struggling small businesses is not coal, it’s jobs. It is time for the President to stop wasting our time hunting his whale and focus on the real problems facing this nation – the nosedive in employment he has presided over.” H.R. 3409 is a package of bills that protect American jobs and support U.S. energy production by (1) prohibiting the Secretary of the Interior from issuing new rules or regulations that will adversely impact mining jobs; (2) stopping the EPA from using the Clean Air Act to impose costly greenhouse gas regulations that would burden broad sectors of the economy; (3) providing an honest accounting of the full cost of EPA’s rules; (4) providing consistent state regulatory authority over coal ash; and (5) blocking EPA’s usurpation of the states’ role under the Clean Water Act in setting water quality standards and restoring the long-standing balance between federal and state partners in regulating the nation's waters. ###
09.20.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement today on passage of the Congressional Disapproval of Waiver of Work Requirements (H.J.Res. 118). “This summer, President Obama unilaterally gutted the most effective antipoverty program this nation has seen. He did so on the flimsiest legal basis and over my strident opposition. “The bipartisan welfare reform law gave an incentive and an avenue for millions of American families to get off the welfare merry-go-round and escape the trap of generational poverty. The work requirement was not included as a punitive measure, it was included because work is the only proven route out of poverty. “I am disappointed in his decision and today’s vote is the first step towards restoring a safety net that lifts Americans up instead of ties them down.” On July 12, 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services issued a memorandum allowing states to seek a waiver from the work requirements imposed under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996. According to a recent GAO report, HHS had previously held that it lacked the authority to waive work requirements under TANF. ###
07.26.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement today on passage of the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act (H.R. 4078). This legislation would prohibit federal agencies from implementing their most severe regulatory actions until the unemployment rate falls to 6 percent or less. “Three years ago the red tape waterfall started flowing out of the Obama White House and ever since American businesses have been drowning. “We’ve all been touched, effected, or know someone who has been effected by the millions of jobs that have washed away. “The President needs to put himself in the shoes of the thousands of entrepreneurs and small business owners who are wondering if starting or expanding their business is worth the risk given the absence of a creditable economic forecast. “Maybe then he’ll finally understand America does not need 80,000 pages of proposals to regulate American life. What we need are simple and predictable rules that will allow the economy to grow for us all.” H.R. 4078 would allow exemptions for certain significant regulatory actions if the President determines via an executive order that the action is necessary for one of four reasons: (1) to respond to an imminent threat to health or safety, (2) to enforce criminal laws, (3) to protect national security, (4) to implement an international trade agreement. House Republican Accomplishments to Cut the Red Tape and Create Jobs • House Republicans have passed dozens of bipartisan jobs bills that would provide relief from record amounts of red tape—bills requiring the Obama Administration to consider the economic impact of their rules and regulations so the American people know the impact that Washington’s red tape is having on the economy. Highlights include the REINS Act, repeal of President Obama’s federal takeover of healthcare law, and the Entrepreneur Access to Capital Act. • House Republicans also approved the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act. The legislation would eliminate the portions of the Internal Revenue Code that were added by the Democrats’ government takeover of health care law. The Small Business Paperwork mandate Elimination Act became law on April 14, 2011. • The Wall Street Journal called House Republicans’ efforts, “the largest overhaul of the rule-making process and larger administrative state since Ronald Reagan, and perhaps longer.” • Bottom Line: House Republicans know that to cut the unemployment rate, we need to cut the red tape. ###
07.26.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement after the House Agriculture Committee hearing on oversight of the Swaps and Futures Markets: “Trust between financial market participants is essential to our nation’s economic growth and it should come as no surprise that it is hard to find in high finance today. Today’s hearing was not about assigning blame for any of the recent failure and scandals, it was about how to rebuild trust in the financial system that my constituents – the investors, businesses, and borrowers across District 11 – rely on every single day. “I remain concerned with the two themes I have preached about over and over again – the timing and sequence of the rulemaking process and the lack of cost-benefit analysis for proposed rules. Most recently the CFTC chose to forgo issuing their cross-border release as a rule proposal, opting instead to publish a less creditable guidance proposal. This move allowed the CFTC to avoid the cost-benefit analysis required to issue a rule proposal. “The Agriculture Committee will continue to exercise robust oversight over the CFTC, the Self-Regulatory Organizations, and financial firms, and push them all to take concrete steps to renew American’s trust in their industry.” ###
07.18.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following remarks after the House of Representatives voted 414-2 to pass on a bipartisan basis H.R. 5872, the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012. “On the most pressing budgeting matter in Congress today, the President’s silence is deafening. “Our military faces over half a trillion in new spending cuts over the next decade starting on January 1, 2013, and leaders from across the military and defense community have warned that our long-term national security and two million American jobs are at stake. “Yet, even as this national security threat is growing each day, the Obama Administration has been unwilling to discuss where these cuts will be made. “Today’s legislation will require the President to lay out for the American people the stark choice facing our country, while we still have time to renegotiate the cuts that are required to restore our nation’s fiscal health.” ###
07.12.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement regarding House Agriculture Committee passage of the farm bill today: “For our kids and our grandkids, we need to get Washington’s spending under control, eliminate huge annual deficits, and begin to chip away at our mounting national debt. “We have a moral duty to rein in government spending, eliminate huge annual deficits, and begin to chip away at our national debt. If we do not, our nation faces a future of diminished growth and jobs creation that will impoverish generations of Americans to come. "Once again, the House Agriculture Committee took the lead in this effort by passing a farm bill that saves taxpayers more than $35 billion. This is three times the savings that the Simpson-Bowles deficit reduction commission called for, and over a third more in savings than achieved by the Senate farm bill. By requiring a nearly $800 billion Food Stamp program to take a mere 2 percent cut compared to the half a percent cut the Senate passed, the House farm bill is spreading the burden of deficit reduction beyond just the broad shoulders of rural America. "Importantly, the farm bill we passed is both cost-effective and equitable. Not only does the House bill spend less than the Senate's bill, but according to an independent study released just this week by the Agricultural and Food Policy Center, farms producing every kind of row crop, in every part of the country would be better off under the House farm bill. This is certainly the case with cotton producers who saw their good faith effort at compromise unacceptably hollowed-out by the U.S. Senate.” ###
07.11.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conway (R-TX) made the following statement after voting in favor of the Repeal Obamacare Act, H.R. 6079: “The Affordable Care Act is a misguided and dangerous expansion of federal power which reduces our freedoms, slows job creation, and burdens our children with an additional trillion dollars of unnecessary debt. “The entire law is premised on the false idea that Washington knows best, when clearly it does not. If this law is left unchecked, it will reduce health care access with oppressive regulations, drive up cost with expensive mandates, and allow the federal government to reach further into our personal lives by interfering in our doctor-patient relationships. “Regardless of the Supreme Court’s ruling, this law remains bad policy. I will continue to vote to repeal it until it is overturned.” ###
07.06.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conway (R-TX), Chairman of the House Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement regarding the House version of the farm bill that was unveiled today: “For our kids and our grandkids, we need to get Washington’s spending under control, eliminate huge annual deficits, and begin to chip away at our mounting national debt. “The farm bill that the House Agriculture Committee unveiled today contributes to this goal by cutting more than $35 billion. Included in these savings are $16 billion in savings to Food Stamps where the House bill reduces waste, fraud, and abuse and closes loopholes. These savings, which advance part of the $31 billion in savings to Food Stamps the House approved earlier this year, make a down payment in getting a grip on Washington’s runaway spending. “The House bill achieves the balance of savings from farm and conservation policies. Farmers and ranchers from across the country have told us that they are willing to do their part in getting our nation’s fiscal house in order. What producers asked in return is that Washington distributes the cuts equitably so everyone shoulders their fair share of the burden and that farm and conservation policies are redesigned in order to do better with less. “While the Senate produced a lopsided bill that would fail to see our nation’s farmers through tough times, the House bill gets it about right. While I personally would not have included the Senate’s revenue program as an option in the House bill because I believe it is a false choice for any farmer that wants a true safety net, I respect my colleagues who tell me that at least some of their farmers want that choice.” ###
06.29.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following comments after the House approved a bill funding the Department of Transportation and the Department of Housing and Urban Development for 2013. “Today the House put forward an Appropriations bill that meets the needs of our nation while spending nothing more. “No one said upholding our pledge to reform government and restrain spending would be easy; but through hard work, tough decisions, and necessary cuts, we were able to pull together and pass legislation that fully funds our critical safety programs and still saves almost $4 billion.” The legislation would provide funding for the nation’s transportation programs, including the repair and maintenance of interstate highways, the Federal Aviation Administration, the modernization of the nation’s antiquated air traffic control systems, the National Transportation Safety Board, the National Highway Safety Administration et al. It would also fund the Housing and Urban Development programs like the Community Development Block Grant Program et al. The bill, H.R. 5972, would spend $51.6 billion in 2013, a cut of about $4 billion from 2012 levels. ###
06.29.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following comments after the house approved H.R. 4348, the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2012. The legislation would provide a two year extension of the nation’s surface transportation programs, a five year extension of the National Flood Insurance Program and a one year extension of reduced borrowing rates for subsidized Stafford Loan borrowers. “I support many of the reforms in this bill, but ultimately voted against it because it will leave our transportation programs penniless. The CBO predicts the Highway Trust Fund will be exhausted by 2015, meaning we will have to bail these programs out again. “Congressional reforms should enhance the long-term fiscal soundness of federal programs – averting the need for more taxpayer bailouts – and not be used to fund unrelated spending, no matter how important they may be. Unfortunately, this legislation was financed by taking money from reforms to the National Flood Insurance Program and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, two agencies already in deep financial distress. “I am pleased this bill will put American construction workers, engineers, and transportation firms back to work, but deeply concerned our short-sighted tradeoffs will harm us in the long run.” ###
06.28.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement after the Supreme Court of the United States ruled President Obama’s health care legislation constitutional. “Today, the Supreme Court ruled the individual mandate constitutional and with every fiber of my being, I vehemently disagree with their decision. “The Constitution is a document that limits the powers of the federal government; it does not grant the federal government the power to force citizens to enter into private contracts. “The high court's decision may be final, but that does not mean Congress must implement this law. Starting today, we will renew our effort to repeal this terrible legislation and replace it with patient centered solutions that are less bureaucratic, less costly, and less intrusive on the rights of Americans and the Constitution. “In time, I hope that we are able to forever extinguish this ill-conceived and poorly defined congressional power.” ###
06.28.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement after the House voted to charge Attorney General Eric Holder with contempt of Congress for ignoring a congressional subpoena for documents related to Fast and Furious, the failed federal gun trafficking operation. “Transparency and accountability are not optional; government officials are responsible for their actions and decisions, especially when a tragedy such as the death of a U.S. Border Patrol agent occurs. “The family of Agent Brian Terry, the American people, and Congress deserve answers. “And, to get those answers, the Department of Justice has to turn over the remaining documents related to this failed operation. Only then will we be able to work together to ensure this tragedy never happens again.” Background The House of Representatives will now pursue a two-track effort to compel the Attorney General to comply with its lawful subpoena. Under the legislation that was passed, the House will forward the subpoena to the U.S. attorney’s office and also bring a civil suit before a federal judge asking the court to enforce the subpoena. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee voted last week to approve the contempt citation. Moments before passing the resolution, President Obama announced he was invoking executive privilege to maintain the secrecy of the documents related to the failed gun trafficking operation. Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential communications because their release would harm the operations of the White House. The House is seeking documents describing internal Justice Department discussions about a February 2011 letter to lawmakers on Fast and Furious that Attorney General Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect information. No Cabinet member has ever been held in contempt by either chamber of Congress. ###
06.21.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the House voted to pass the Domestic Energy and Jobs Act, H.R. 4480. “The Domestic Energy and Jobs Act will reverse the glacial pace of permitting and the pointless regulations designed by the administration to slow down energy production on Federal Lands. “The oil and gas industry has been thriving on private land despite the Administration’s attempts to suffocate it. This resurgence is driven by pioneering entrepreneurs and new technology and this legislation will ensure the hundreds of millions of acres of Federal Lands are included in this American energy renaissance. The Domestic Energy and Jobs Act will put Americans back to work producing affordable American energy. ###
06.21.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the Senate voted to pass its lopsided version of the 2012 Farm Bill. The legislation will now move to the House, which is currently writing its version. The current farm act expires at the end of September. “This bill flat misses the mark, leaving little money for agriculture. “The legislation passed by the Senate today lacks regional balance by providing new entitlements for a handful of states while freezing out all other commodities from any sort of safety net. It is loaded with negligent food stamp expenditures which under this bill will increase to roughly 80 percent of the overall spending in the Farm Bill. “I am happy the process in the Senate is done, and I look forward to passing a more balanced and conservative bill in the House. We need a bill that provides a balanced foundation for growth in all regions of our nation's agricultural sector. The House will pass a farm bill that restores fairness and fiscal responsibility this year.” Representative K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) is the chairman of House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops. ###
06.20.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway made the following statement after the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform voted to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for his refusal to turn over documents related to the Fast and Furious scandal. “In a democracy, questions and investigations serve as a powerful tool. To that end, Congress is empowered to subpoena the people and records that it needs to enact laws and institute reforms. “As the chief decision maker at the Department of Justice, Mr. Holder’s principal duties are to ensure DOJ enforces the law and defends the interests of the United States. Among those responsibilities, he is accountable to Congress for all the decisions and actions made within his department’s purview. “However, based on his refusal to turn over the documents Congress has asked for, it is clear that Mr. Holder believes this obligation to be optional. “It is not. “For too long, this Administration has left crucial questions about who knew what and when unanswered. Attorney General Holder’s refusal to produce these documents and the President Obama’s 11th hour cry of Executive Privilege are not acceptable responses to legitimate Congressional subpoenas. “Mr. Holder and this entire Administration have an obligation to the Public and Congress to be truthful about the Fast and Furious Program and I will support continued efforts that leads us to that truth.” ###
06.13.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement after the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service withdrew its proposal to add the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard to the list of species protected under the Endangered Species Act. “It is a good day for West Texas. By preventing this listing, our oil and gas producers, ranchers and land owners will be able to continue doing what they do best – providing the fuel and food this nation needs. The decision announced by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) today will allow them to continue operations without interruption or delay.” “I deeply appreciate the many local stakeholders who engaged in difficult negotiations with the leadership of Fish and Wildlife. They worked tirelessly to find a reasonable compromise that would satisfy the agency’s concerns while protecting their ability to continue using the land in a responsible manner. Their hard work will no doubt become a model across the nation for a more collaborative approach to conservation. I am hopeful that in the future, Fish and Wildlife will look first to negotiate voluntary agreements with local communities rather than dictate blanket orders from Washington.” “The fight against an overreaching bureaucracy is not over – there are many more species in Texas still under review. While today’s decision was a victory, the people of the Permian Basin wasted far too many hours and resources to get to where we are today. I will continue push to improve the ESA (Endangered Species Act) so that other communities across Texas and the country will not be forced to face the same uphill battle to that we did.” ###
06.08.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following comments after the house approved H.R. 5855, the FY 13 Homeland Security Appropriations bill, and H.R. 5882, the Legislative Branch Appropriations bill. The Homeland Security Appropriations Bill provides funding for Customs and Border Patrol, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Coast Guard, FEMA, TSA, and the Secret Service. H.R. 5855 proposes to fund these programs at $39.117 billion, a reduction of $483 million below last year’s spending level. The Legislative Branch Appropriations bill provides funding for the administration and operations of Congress and the Capitol Complex, including funding for Members’ office budgets; congressional support agencies like the Congressional Research Service, the Congressional Budget Office, and the Government Accountability Office; and the Capitol Police. Total funding for House and joint operations – excluding Senate-only items – is $3.3 billion, which is $34 million below last year’s level. “Today’s legislation will reduce the money spent on the House of Representatives and joint legislative operations by $34 million dollars from last year. Over the past two years, Congressional Office budgets have cut by 10.5% and this year, we continue to shrink the cost of Congress. American families and businesses have been tightening their belts and Congress must continue to do the same. “Protecting our citizens is the fundamental role of government. With the passage of the Homeland Security Appropriations bill, the House has laid out its plan to safeguard the public while saving $483 million next year. Our legislation funds frontline security operations like the Border Patrol and Immigrations and Customs Enforcement at their highest levels in history, and fully funds the programs and services our states and communities count on like the Coast Guard, disaster relief, and emergency services programs. “Both these bills continue our commitment to protect Americans and restrain federal spending.” ###
06.07.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following comments after the house approved the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2012, H.R. 436. “With millions still out of work, a $1 trillion deficit and an exploding national debt, the last thing America needs is more problems from Obamacare,” said Rep. Conaway. “This measure eliminates an innovation-destroying 2.3 percent tax on the firms who make medical devices created to fund Obamacare. Set to begin next year, this tax would increase cost of everything from mundane devices like walkers and wheel chairs, to lifesaving equipment like oxygen and MRI machines, to treatments for this century’s greatest killers, like stents and pacemakers. It would hit the newest, most innovative firms the hardest and mean that fewer dollars will be spent researching and developing the disruptive technologies we need to drive down healthcare costs. “Today’s legislation also repeals a portion of Obamacare that prevents almost 50 million Americans from using the hard earned money in their health savings accounts or flexible spending accounts to buy over the counter drugs without a prescription.” H.R. 436 repeals two revenue-raising provisions originally included in Obamcare as “offsets” and reforms how Flexible Spending Arrangements (FSA) holders manage their account balances. 1. It immediately repeals the 2.3% excise tax on manufacturers and importers of medical device products scheduled to take effect January 1, 2013. Many industry reports estimate that this tax will lead to the loss of at least 43,000 American device-related jobs impacting every state as well as increase the cost of medical devices for health care providers and consumers. 2. Beginning in 2013, it repeals the prohibition on the use of tax-preferred accounts, such as FSAs, Health Savings Accounts (HSA), Archer Medical Savings Accounts (MSA), or Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRA), to purchase over-the-counter (OTC) medications (except insulin) without a prescription. 3. Beginning in 2013, the bill allows FSA holders to “cash out” (and be treated as normal, taxable wages) up to $500 of their unused FSA/HRA balance at the end of their health care plan year. Under current law, unused FSA balances are forfeited back to the employer. In other words, FSA balances are considered “use it, or lose it.” According to the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) and Congressional Budget Office (CBO), these provisions reduce taxes by approximately $37 billion over ten years. To prevent increases in budget deficits as a result of decreased revenue, the bill includes an offset to recapture of overpayments from Obamacare’s premium exchange subsidies. According to JCT and the CBO, this offset increases revenue by $12 billion and cuts spending by $31.9 billion resulting in overall deficit reduction of $6.7 billion over ten years. ###
06.06.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following comments after the house approved the FY 13 Energy and Water Development Appropriations bill, H.R. 5325. The legislation would provide $32.1 billion for the Energy Department, Army Corps of Engineers and federal water projects for fiscal 2013. This represents a cut to non-security spending of $187.5 million below last year’s level and a $275 million increase to critical security spending, consistent with the House-passed budget. “Today’s Energy and Water Appropriations bill makes a big step forward in the House Republican’s efforts to shrink the unnecessary obligations of government and refocus our limited federal resources on the programs that we need,” said Rep Conaway. “In addition, this bill ends loan guarantees like the one that lost over $500 billion of taxpayer funds to the now defunct Solyndra. “Overspending has pushed our economy to the precipice of fiscal catastrophe and nothing short of a legislative about-face will save us. Over the next month, the House will continue to pass appropriations bills that reduce the size of government and get it out of the way of hard working Americans trying to create jobs.” Bill Highlights: Department of Energy (DOE) - Funding for DOE within the legislation totals $26.3 billion – a cut of $365 million below last year’s level and $1.8 billion below the President’s request. Within this funding, priority was given to programs that support economic competitiveness, reduce the volatility of gasoline prices, and strengthen the nation’s security. Nuclear Security – The bill provides a total of $11.3 billion for DOE’s nuclear security programs, including Weapons Activities, Nuclear Nonproliferation, and Naval Reactors. This is a $275 million increase from last year. This critical national defense funding will maintain the safety and readiness of the nation’s nuclear stockpile – including full funding of the President’s $7.6 billion request to modernize the nation’s nuclear weapons stockpile and its supporting infrastructure. Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation is funded at $2.3 billion, $41 million less than fiscal year 2012. The bill also provides $1.1 billion for Naval Nuclear Reactors. Gasoline prices – By refocusing funds towards some of the nation’s highest priorities, the bill provides $1.01 billion – $36 million above fiscal year 2012 – to strengthen Department of Energy programs addressing the causes and impacts of higher gasoline prices. Importantly, the legislation fills a major hole in the Department’s research and development efforts by creating a new, $25 million shale oil program. It is estimated that domestic shale oil resources, if recoverable, could be more than ten times our conventional oil reserves. Energy Programs – The bill provides funding to help support economic development and promote the nation’s energy independence. The bill includes $554 million – $207 million above last year’s level – for research and development to advance coal, natural gas, oil, and other fossil energy technologies that provide more than 83% of the nation’s energy. The bill also includes $765 million for nuclear energy research, development, and demonstration activities to further the next generation of safe, secure, and economically beneficial nuclear power options while ensuring the safety and longevity of our current plants. The bill includes $200 million to support the activities of the Advanced Research Projects Agency—Energy. Yucca Mountain – The bill continues Congressional efforts to roll back the Obama Administration’s politically motivated Yucca Mountain policy that runs contrary to the will of the Congress and the American people. In this vein, the bill provides $25 million to support Yucca Mountain activities to continue the viability of the program for the future. Science Research – The bill includes $4.8 billion for science research. This funding will help strengthen innovation and help spur future economic growth through the development of high performance computing systems, basic scientific exploration, and research into the next generation of clean energy sources. Within this amount, the bill restores many of the cuts to the fusion energy program proposed by the President. This basic research will lay the groundwork for more efficient and practical domestic energy solutions in the future to help reduce the nation’s dependence on foreign oil, and help promote future growth in American businesses and industries. Environmental Management – Included in the legislation is $5.5 billion for environmental management activities, $166 million below last year’s level and $106 million below the request. This includes $5 billion for Defense Environmental Cleanup to safely clean-up sites contaminated by previous nuclear weapons production. Army Corps of Engineers – The Army Corps of Engineers is funded at $4.8 billion. There are no congressionally earmarked projects within this bill. The legislation advances American competitiveness and export ability by providing more than $1.89 billion for navigation projects and studies, including $1 billion in funding from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund, to help increase commerce through the nation’s ports and other waterways. The bill also promotes public health and safety by funding flood risk management activities at $1.45 billion – including $451 million for critical dam safety improvements. The bill does not fund all of the presidentially requested projects for the Army Corps, instead focusing funding on navigation and flood control activities that will have a more immediate impact on job creation and the economy. Due to the large number of ongoing Corps projects, the bill provides $324 million for essential flood control and navigation projects to be prioritized by the Corps. This additional flexibility will help address critical navigation and flood control needs across the country, while improving Administration transparency and maintaining Congressional authority over budget decisions. Bureau of Reclamation - The legislation contains $988 million – $89 million below last year’s level and $47 million below the President’s request – for the Department of the Interior and the Bureau of Reclamation. This funding is intended to help manage, develop, and protect the water resources of the western states. ###
06.01.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) offered the following remarks after the House approved the FY 13 Military Construction and Veteran Affairs Appropriations bill, H.R. 5854. The legislation totals $71.7 billion in discretionary funding, which is the same as the FY 12 level. The bill provides the nation’s military with the infrastructure needed to house, train, and equip military personnel, provides for the quality of life of our troops and their families, and maintains our strong military base structure. It also funds veterans’ benefits and programs to ensure that all veterans receive the services they need and deserve. “Our troops have been volunteering to go in harm’s way for over a decade and it is Congress’ duty to ensure they are taken care of accordingly. I am glad the House was able to come together on this bill and ensure our active and reserve troops, veterans and military families receive the programs and services they have earned,” said Congressman Conaway. The fiscal year 2013 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations bill (H.R. 5854) was approved by the House on a 407-12 vote. For a list of adopted amendments to H.R. 5854: click here ###
05.17.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Chairman of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management, issued the following statement concerning the Subcommittee's two day hearing on the 2012 Farm Bill and crop insurance. "When we began the Farm Bill process last year, I indicated that I would use five guidelines to judge any farm bill proposal, based on what I heard from farmers in my district and across the country. “First, would the farm bill undermine crop insurance? Second, is the farm bill bankable to farmers and lenders? Third, is the farm bill tailored to producer risk? Fourth, are all crops, farmers, and regions treated equitably? And, fifth, can farmers and their lenders understand it? “The clear message from the hearing, and from farmers, lawmakers, and economists alike, is the Senate Ag Committee's farm bill fails these tests. If prices collapsed, the Senate Farm bill would collapse right along with them, creating a crisis in farm country and calls for expensive ad hoc assistance in Washington. Calls that cannot be answered because the government is broke. The Senate bill also creates a complicated new program that is so lopsided it actually locks in profits for some while denying any safety net at all to others; it would distort planting decisions while duplicating and competing with crop insurance. In short, the Senate farm bill fails farmers and taxpayers, and it will not become law. “In a few weeks, the House Ag Committee will continue crafting a farm bill that is both fair and fiscally responsible to all producers across all regions of the country. The House Ag Committee’s bill will save money for the taxpayer while providing a more reliable policy that will be there when farmers truly need it." ###
05.10.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) voted in favor of H.R. 5652, the Sequester Replacement Reconciliation Act, which would replace dangerous defense cuts with common sense spending reductions. “Over the last two years Republicans have worked hard to cut spending, but as automatic expenses continue to grow, more must be done. It makes little sense to slash spending for national security when billions of taxpayer dollars are wasted because of fraud and abuse. “According to GAO, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program shelled out $1.9 billion in overpayments in 2009. A 2011 news report in Los Angeles found recipients selling food stamps on craigslist for pennies on the dollar; in Baltimore they found food stamps being used in local stores to buy beer and cigarettes; and in Michigan, a woman who won $700,000 in the state lottery in September 2011 was still receiving full food stamp benefits in March 2012. “These stories are just the tip of the iceberg, there are plenty more. “I realize critical need for SNAP and understand defense spending needs to be reduced, but I cannot in good conscience support nonsensical cuts that make us less safe. “H.R. 5652 seeks to eliminate waste and abuse in the SNAP programs to make sure that benefits actually go to those who really need them.” ###
05.09.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) proposed two amendments to the Defense Budget for fiscal year 2013 aimed at strengthening domestic energy security and reducing cost. Both amendments passed the full committee and will be included in the Defense Authorization measure scheduled to reach the House floor next week. The first amendment would exempt the Department of Defense from the Alternative Fuel Procurement Requirement and the second amendment would limit the DOD from purchasing any alternative fuel if the cost exceeds a traditional fossil fuel that would be used for the same purpose. Both of these amendments would shield the Defense Department from cumbersome restrictions that threaten national security. During the hearing, Rep. Conaway offered the following remarks: “Thank you. I would also like to point out the idea of short term versus long term has been brought up over and over. Everything we do is short term versus long term. The president's budget is filled with them; you know delaying the purchase of planes, delaying purchase of ships that we all know will cost a lot more in the future. In this instance it’s simply a way to save - only in Department of Defense budget would $5 million be a relatively small amount of money. Nevertheless, it is money that doesn't have to be spent at this point in time. The Department of Defense should not be in the business of driving fuel markets and fuel innovations. That’s perhaps the Department of Energy's department or somebody else's. The Department of Defense is defend the country and get the best bang you can for the money you're spending and this is an area where we don't need to spend the money to prove anything. I yield back to the gentleman from Virginia.” ###
05.05.2012	On Saturday May 5, 2012, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) attended the award ceremony for his offices’ annual Congressional Art Competition. This year’s award ceremony took place on the Angelo State University campus at the West Texas Collections Gallery. Congratulations to Lynn Bataillon for earning the 2012 Eleventh District Grand Prize for her piece “Pandora.” Lynn’s piece will hang in the Capitol for one year along with other District winning pieces from around the country. In addition to the Grand Prize title, she will travel to Washington D.C., tour the Capitol and view her piece, and meet Congressman Conaway. Lynn attends Goldthwaite High School in Goldthwaite. Description of the winning piece: “Still life of temptation in the dark created with oil sticks on textured paper. Reflections of light and color are dramatically portrayed.” 2nd Place: Darla Lewis, Mullins High School, won second place for her piece, “Heritage Lost 3rd Place: Sami Richter, Burnet High School, won third place for her piece, “Eragon” 4th Place: Kayla Lopez, Robert E. Lee High School, won fourth place for her piece, “Nala’s Pose” 5th Place: Christian Matthews, Llano High School, won fifth place for her piece, “Behind the Eyes of the Beholder” Thank you to everyone who participated in this year’s competition and congratulations to all of our winners! Background Once a year Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, host a locally judged art competition for high school age students in their districts. The competition began in 1982 and was called “An Artistic Discovery”. Since then, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated in the contest, with the culmination being the selection of a winner. A panel of judges will evaluate each piece and then join their respective Congressman at a set date and time to announce the competition’s winner. All first place winners receive a complimentary trip to Washington, D.C. to attend a ribbon cutting ceremony honoring their hard work and achievement. Each of the winning pieces are then displayed in the Cannon tunnel –a long underground passage leading to the United States Capitol- for Members of Congress, staff and the general public to enjoy until the next years batch of winning selections are displayed. This ribbon cutting ceremony will be on Wednesday, June 20, 2012 ###
04.26.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) called on Environmental Protection Agency administrator Lisa P. Jackson to terminate Al Armendariz, the agency’s Region 6 administrator, for comments he made comparing the agency’s enforcement strategy to Roman crucifixion. Rep. Conaway released the following statement: “Administrator Armendariz’s comments reflect a vindictive culture within EPA Region 6 that is driven more by ideology than science. It is no secret in Texas, the heart of America’s oil and gas industry, that the EPA has become a petty, arbitrary, and demagogic organization. Mr. Armendariz comments reflect not only a lack of discipline but an inability to separate personal opinions from the public responsibility. “Mr. Armendariz’s bias hinders his ability to uphold the critical responsibility entrusted to him and undermines the credibility of the EPA. I recommend administrator Jackson fire Mr. Armendariz and appoint a less divisive Administrator that is capable of better working with the communities and businesses of Texas.” Background During a local Texas government meeting in 2010, Al Armendariz, the EPA administer in the Region 6 Dallas office, made remarks comparing his agency’s enforcement philosophy to Roman crucifixion. To watch the video, click here. ###
04.26.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee, issued the following statement concerning the Senate Agriculture Committee's passage of a Farm Bill: "The Senate Agriculture Committee today broke faith with tradition by passing a Farm Bill that is so lopsided and discriminatory against certain producers, regions, and crops that it will take extraordinary effort to restore the kind of balance necessary to pass a farm bill. “In making the farm bill indefensibly rich for some while making it ineffective for others, the legislation will also distort planting decisions; producers with the option to do so will plant for the program instead of the market. In addition, the Senate Farm Bill manages to fail in the two ways most important to farmers, by missing opportunities to protect and improve crop insurance and by failing to provide farmers price protection in periods of prolonged low prices. “Especially ill-served in the bill are producers of wheat, cotton, rice, peanuts, and even corn and soybeans where they farm areas with any production risk. This bill was specially designed for a crop or two grown in one region of the country and it will not become law. Today was a big step backward in completing a Farm Bill this year." ###
04.19.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) voted in support of H.R. 9, the Small Business Tax Cut, which provides small businesses, regardless of how they are organized, a 20-percent deduction against active business income for tax year 2012. “This bill stands in stark contrast to the damaging policies coming out of the Senate and the White House which only take more money from struggling businesses and punish them for succeeding. Instead of punishing job creators, Republicans want to reward those who start small businesses, grow jobs and succeed in helping to grow our economy. “Today’s legislation will cut taxes for small business tax cut by 20 percent. This cut will help 22 million American small businesses, most of which are mom and pop run businesses struggling to get by, keep more of their hard earned money so they can survive these though economic times, buy new equipment, invest in their workers and get ready to succeed.” Information regarding the Small Business Tax Cut can be found at majorityleader.gov/smallbiz including: Tax Cut One-Page What Small Business Owners Are Saying Charge & Response Economic Impact Study by Fiscal Associates, Inc. ###
04.18.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) voted in favor of a House Agriculture Committee budget proposal that would reduce federal spending by $33.2 billion over the next 10 years. Following the hearing, Rep. Conway made the following comments: “Today's decision represents the leading edge of the hard choices needed to be made to save our Republic and ensure future generations enjoy the same opportunities all those who went before them did. “The Agriculture Committee put forward a proposal that will make significant reforms to SNAP. Our package contains new measures designed to better catch misuse and abuse in the program and ensure that the folks who actually need SNAP benefits continue receiving them. “SNAP will continue to be an important part of the safety net for many Americans in need, however support must continue to come from the communities we live in and the friends and family that surround us.” ###
03.29.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) made the following comment after voting in favor of the House Republican budget, “The Path to Prosperity.” "Getting our economy back on track is a journey that starts with a strong budget plan like the one we put forward today,” Conaway said. “This budget highlights the difficult decisions and tradeoffs that must be made to bring our budget back into balance. While no American is likely to support every choice made in this budget, finding a reasonable path to a balanced budget is more important than any single program or activity that the federal government provides.” ###
03.22.2012	Yesterday, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) announced his appointment by House Armed Services Committee Chairman Buck McKeon and Speaker John Boehner to serve on the Board of Visitors of the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. “I’m proud to have the opportunity to support the cadets and institution that has played such an integral role in the history of the United States,” said Rep. Conaway. “For more than two centuries the Academy has prepared and produced leaders of great character and I look forward to ensuring that tradition continues.” Created by the Federal Advisory Act of 1972, the BoV meets quarterly to review and receive updates on the academic, physical and military programs at the Academy. Specifically, the BoV has oversight of the Academy's morale and discipline, curriculum, instructions, physical equipment, fiscal affairs and academic methods. The board consists of presidential appointees and members of Congress. In addition to Rep Conaway, individuals serving on the BoV are: Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) Jack Reed (RI), Mary Landrieu (LA), Richard Burr (NC); Representatives Maurice Hinchey (NY), Jerry Lewis (CA), John Shimkus (IL), Steve Womack (AR); and, Presidential appointees Fred Malek, Randolph Brock, Elizabeth McNally, Patrick Murphy, Sue Fulton, Patrick Murphy, and Major General Errol Schwartz. ###
03.08.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway made the following comment after voting in favor of H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act. “Today, the House passed another bipartisan jobs bill that will jumpstart our economy and restore opportunities for America’s primary job creators, our small businesses, startups and entrepreneurs. “The steady supply of red tape and uncertainty pumping out Washington is threatening the ability of individuals to take risks and create small businesses or startups. We need to do everything we can to ensure that America remains a country of opportunity, where jobs are created, risks are taken, and startups and small businesses flourish without the burden of costly regulations. “These measures passed today will increase capital formation, spur the growth of startups and small businesses, and pave the way for more small-scale businesses to go public and create more jobs. “With the support of the President and a strong showing in the House it is clear this bill needs to become law. I urge Senator Reid and Democrats in the Senate to put aside their differences with House Republicans and send this critical legislation to the President’s desk.” ###
02.28.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) made the following comments during the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative’s (NEORI) press conference today on Capitol Hill in Washington, DC. “I want to thank all the participants in the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative for their hard work over the past eight months. This project has yielded many new relationships, some surprising common ground, and a couple of good recommendations for Members of Congress to consider. I have no doubt that the groundwork NEORI has laid will pay dividends long into the future. “Finding new ways to access the resources we have already found will continue to be an important piece of our domestic energy strategy for years to come. EOR is a critical tool that allows us to do just that - it breathes new life into old fields. Expanding our domestic energy production remains a top priority for me and many of my colleagues. We all look to a time when our nation will import less oil, create more jobs, and has a growing economy, thanks in part to EOR and increased production of domestic energy.” NEORI, a coalition of industry, state, environmental and labor leaders, began work in July 2011 on several policy proposals to stimulate the expansion of enhanced oil recovery using CO2 from power plants and industrial facilities. Today marked the release of their suggestions to the public. In enhanced oil recovery (EOR), oil producers routinely inject CO2 into wells to draw more oil to the surface. The practice supplies 6 percent of current U.S. oil production and helps sustain production in otherwise declining oil fields, but limited supplies of CO2 constrain the expansion of EOR and its potential to increase our domestic oil supply. ###
02.19.2012	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway, Chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee made the following statement after the House Committee on Agriculture hearing on the 2012 agenda of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. “Today, I reiterated to Chairman Gensler the critical necessity of completing a comprehensive cost benefit analysis on each new rule the CFTC has proposed. The Dodd-Frank bill fundamentally restructured the scope of the CFTC’s responsibilities and oversight obligations and entrusted the commission with the duty of instituting a financial framework capable of making or breaking US markets for years to come. “As the Chairman of the committee tasked with overseeing this process, I will continue to emphasize the importance of a cost-benefit analysis process that produces the kind of cost-effective safeguards our farmers, producers, and consumers need to manage risk in the global marketplace.” ###
02.17.2012	Rep. K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement after voting on H.R. 3650, The Middle Class Tax Relief & Job Creation Act. “After six weeks of negotiations, most of which was spent convincing Democrats to agree on a way to offset the entire cost of this bill, Republicans were left with two options: vote no and raise taxes or pass this bill. “While not perfect, this agreement is needed to ensure middle-class Americans are not hit with a tax increase next month. “Finally, this will also implement a common sense policy that I worked hard to include that will provide state’s with the ability to drug test unemployment insurance recipients. I have pushed for this measure since December because I believe it is the right thing to do. We should not reward individuals who are unemployable because they cannot pass a drug test.” Background: Doc fix: This bill will protect seniors from disruptions in their medical care by preventing an immediate 27.4% cut to physician reimbursements. ObamaCare: It also repeals $5 Billion – largest individual repeal to date – of slush funding created in the 2010 health care law. ###
02.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement on the President’s Fiscal 2013 Defense Budget. “When I look at the defense budget, I try and look at it through the eyes of those it will affect and ask, is this congruent with the values I was elected to uphold – or, more plainly will it hurt or harm our troops and nation? “Regarding this budget, it is clear the President looked through the lens of his domestic and budget agendas and asked how much can I cut and still be reelected? “A perfect example: In 2010, the Department of Defense received $400 million for energy conservation investments. In 2013 the President proposed energy conservation receives a total budget of $1 billion – $600 million increase. “First, where is that $600 million coming from? Second, are energy conservation projects the most prudent way to spend it? “I am not sure, especially given the U.S. Navy’s recent agreement to buy 450,000 gallons of biofuels at $15 a gallon – four times the price of traditional fuel. “What I am sure of is that we can find a better way to spend that $600 million and I am committed to making that happen.” ###
02.08.2012	Washington, DC – Congressman K. Michael Conaway’s office will host a Service Academy Day on March 24, 2012, from 1:30-4:30 p.m. CST. During the event attendees will have the opportunity to watch videos profiling “a day in the life” at each of the service academies as well as receive background information about academy life and an explanation of the nomination process. Who: All interested parties What: Academy Day When: March 24, 2012 1:30-4:30 pm CST Where: Angelo State University MCS Bldg., Room 100 2200 Dena Drive San Angelo, TX For more information, please contact JoAnne Powell in Congressman Conaway’s San Angelo office at 325.659.4010. ###
02.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) made the following comments after voting in support of H.R. 3521, the Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Rescissions Act. “It has been 1015 days since the Senate passed a budget. To put that in perspective, the last time the Senate passed a budget – April 28, 2009 – no one had yet heard of the iPad. “Based on their lack of action, Leader Reid and his majority in the Senate seem to believe that by ignoring our nation’s fiscal problems, they will eventually fix themselves – that is wrong. “To fix this mess, Congress has to put the gimmicks aside and start working together to restore honesty in budgeting. “With continued progress and a little effort from the Senate, we will be able to again look ahead with confidence to the world our children will inhabit.” Background H.R. 3521 is part of a package of 10 measures that Republicans introduced in December to fix the broken budget process. The Expedited Legislative Line-Item Veto and Recessions Act is a bipartisan bill that would give the President the authority to recommend spending cuts in appropriations bills. That spending, which would be devoted to deficit reduction, would then go back to the House and Senate for and up-or-down vote. The bill does not give the President the full authority to trim appropriations bills on his own because the Supreme Court found in 1998 that presidential line-item vetoes violate the Constitution. Instead, the bill strikes a middle ground by giving the President the change to highlight areas of spending that should be cut and even hold back on that spending until Congress considers that request. The President’s recommendations would be given privileged status in Congress so they could be quickly considered. ###
02.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Representative K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1734, the Civilian Property Realignment Act. “Congress must take bold action and display the courage to do what is right in order to overcome the serious financial challenges facing our nation. I believe H.R. 1734 takes a step in that direction by smartly reducing the size of government through selling or redeveloping underutilized federal properties, increasing the utilization rates of existing federal properties, and expediting the disposal of surplus federal properties.” H.R. 1734, the Civilian Property Realignment Act,” was approved by a vote of 259 to 164. Provisions and benefits of the bill include: - Establishes an independent nine member civilian commission to make property recommendations to Congress - Recommendations require Congressional approval - After a one-time appropriation of initial seed funding, the process would be self-funded by sale proceeds - Proceeds will go towards deficit reduction - Requires the sale or transfer of several underutilized GSA properties including for the National Women’s History Museum, the consolidation of the National Gallery of Art and the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Energy, and the proposed Los Angeles Courthouse, all of which will benefit taxpayers and result in immediate savings - OMB estimates such a proposal would result in $15 billion in future savings - Anticipated CBO direct spending savings of at least $400 million in the first five years. ###
02.02.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway made the following statement after Attorney General Eric Holder testified before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee for his role in the reckless, dangerous, and botched Fast and Furious gun tracking operation. “Today, I joined a number of my colleagues in expressing to the President our complete loss of faith and confidence in Eric Holder as the Attorney of the General United States. “As the chief decision maker at the Department of Justice, Mr. Holder’s principal duties are to ensure DOJ enforces the law and defends the interests of the United States. However, based on his botched execution of Fast and Furious and subpar management and oversight, it is clear he has failed in that responsibility. “After more than a year of investigating, Congress has discovered that Mr. Holder not only attempted to deceive congressional investigators, but that members of his team conspired to silence whistleblowers and cover-up failures. “Mr. Holder’s failure to do the job President Obama asked of him now forces Congress to question his judgment and foresight. “I believe Mr. Holder lacks the temperament to be Attorney General and I have no confidence in his ability to continue leading the department. “Congress should not have to subpoena Mr. Holder or hold him in contempt just to get answers to answers to simple questions like, ‘what happened?’ If he won’t disclose information about the death of an American Border Patrol Agent, I fear what else he may be withholding.” Rep. Conaway is a cosponsor of H.Res. 490: a resolution expressing no confidence in the Attorney General of the United States. ###
02.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1173 to repeal the CLASS program. “Today, the House of Representatives took another step forward in our efforts to repeal Obamacare. The CLASS Act was flawed in its inception and today, the House of Representatives offered legislation to repeal one of the most egregious and fiscally irresponsible components of the President’s healthcare law. “Since the start of the healthcare reform debate, actuaries, researchers, and policy makers have warned us that the CLASS Act would be a fiscal failure. Even Richard Foster, Medicare’s Chief Actuary, said that ‘[v]oluntary, unsubsidized and non-underwritten insurance programs such as CLASS face a significant risk of failure.’ What is worse is he predicted the program would begin to run deficits in 2025 and never recover. “Last year, even the Department of Health and Human Services said the CLASS Act could not be implemented in a fiscally sound manner, yet President Obama and his allies on Capitol Hill continue to vote and defend junk.” ###
01.25.2012	Washington, DC – Today, General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway issued the following statement regarding the passage of several pieces of legislation aimed at clarifying or amending certain parts of the derivatives section (Title VII) of the Dodd-Frank Act. “The fundamental responsibility of a regulator is to accurately gauge the costs and benefits of each of the regulations it proposes. Congress delegates this authority to federal agencies because it recognizes the body lacks the expertise to assess the impacts of detailed rules. “For the past year the CFTC has been pushing through the Dodd-Frank Act, the most sweeping change to our financial markets in a generation, and has rarely even attempted to accurately estimate the cost of compliance. “My bill would require the CFTC to perform a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis with each rulemaking. This small mandate on the economists and lawyers at the CFTC will ensure that the burdens placed on business large and small are justified in the real world, not just in the pages of the Federal Register.” “Our regulators must walk a fine line between the safety offered by transparency and regulation, and the dynamism found in liquidity and innovative products. The bills we passed today will help clarify how Congress intended them to walk that line.” H.R. 1840 would require the CFTC to assess the costs and benefits of proposed actions and advanced out of the committee by voice vote on January 25, 2012. ###
01.24.2012	Washington, DC – Tonight, Congressman Mike Conaway issued the following statement after President Obama delivered the State of the Union address. “Tonight, the President called on Congress to work in a spirit of bipartisanship, to focus on making better lives for ourselves and our children. I agree with the President that we need to work together on common-sense solutions to our nation’s problems and believe the best way to start would be for the Senate take up and pass the 27 bipartisan jobs bills waiting for action. “After three years in office, it’s clear the President’s policies have failed and are making the economy worse. Rather than creating jobs, he has created a higher degree of fear about the future and rather than cutting the budget, he has increased spending and grown our nation’s dependence on the federal government. “Americans want less speeches and more action. We need more economic freedom, more competition, a simplified tax code, streamlined regulations, and a balanced budget.” ###
01.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway added his name to a House resolution honoring the service and sacrifice of members of the United States Armed Forces in Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation New Dawn. This resolution publicly recognizes the tremendous personal sacrifices made by over 1.5 million service members and their families. Afterward, he made the following statement: “It is an honor and a privilege to recognize the brave men and women of our Armed Forces by cosponsoring this important resolution. The sacrifice and service that these service members have so freely given will not be forgotten. I am humbled to recognize on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives the 4,486 American heroes who paid the ultimate sacrifice and over 32,000 military personnel who were wounded during these operations.” ###
01.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Mike Conaway made the following statement regarding the renaming of the Big Spring Veterans hospital after a West Texas hero. “Soldiers fight wars because of a sense of duty. For generations, countless Americans have accepted this duty, despite the risks, to ensure their homeland is safe and our future secure. Their actions are selfless. We can never repay this debt, but we can honor their sacrifice. In honor of one of our nations many heroes, yesterday we celebrated the renaming of Big Spring Veterans hospital, after Lieutenant George O’Brien Jr., Korean War Medal of Honor recipient. This facility will serve as a steadfast reminder of his courage on the battlefield and the proud legacy he leaves behind.” Lieutenant George O’Brien Jr. enlisted in the United States Marine Corps where he was soon deployed to Korea. In 1952, while engaged with enemy in what is known as the Battle of the Hook, Lieutenant O’Brien led his platoon against strong resistance. Despite injuries, he fought on, leading his men in a successful assault on the enemy’s position. His valiant actions earned him the Medal of Honor. The renaming of the hospital was included as a part of H.R. 2646 which became law on October 5, 2011. To read Congressman Conaway’s remarks, click here. ###
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman K. Michael Conaway added his name to a bill (H.R. 2179) that would direct the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to transfer unclaimed money recovered at airport security checkpoints to United Service Organizations (USO) for funding its activities in support of USO airport centers. “I am proud to add my name to this legislation which will direct the TSA to send any money left behind at security checkpoints to the USO to help with onsite airport service for active members of the military. I cannot think of a better place for these funds to be used and look forward to USO enjoying the extra support as they welcome home our troops at Midland International.” In fiscal year 2010, travelers left $376,480.39 in loose change in the bottoms of plastic bins at the checkpoints, according to the TSA. In 2009, the abandoned coins totaled more than $399,000. ###
01.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Mike Conaway made the following statement after President Obama announced he would block the creation of tens of thousands of jobs by not approving the proposed Keystone XL pipeline. “Since elected, President Obama has traveled the country promoting the importance of job creation. He has preached his jobs message on every platform from 60 minutes to the View, to even a Joint Session of Congress and what does he have to show for it – nothing. Nonetheless, before for the holidays, Congress spoon fed him the opportunity to approve the Keystone XL pipeline – creating tens of thousands of jobs and reducing our nation’s dependence on foreign oil. And, what did he decide – No. If there is one thing we have learned about President Obama over the last few years, it is that he is incapable of making decisions based on economic reasons, over political ones.” ###
12.16.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway voted in support of the Conference Report on H.R. 2055, the Military Construction, Veteran Affairs, and Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2012. This bill provides $915 billion in funding for the nine remaining appropriations bills and is consistent with the overall $1.043 trillion level enacted by the Budget Control Act. After the vote, Rep. Conaway made the following comment: “After weeks of tough negotiations with our colleagues in the Senate, we have finally reached a fair and bipartisan comprise that meets the budget goals laid out last summer,” said Rep. Conaway. “This bill builds on the spending reductions begun at the start of this year and marks the second consecutive year that discretionary spending has fallen, a feat not accomplished since WWII. In addition, important policy riders were included in the text. Among several important provisions, the bill holds the line on taxpayer funding of abortions, defunds key parts of the President’s healthcare law, and overturns the looming ban on traditional light bulbs. “Today’s bill is a compromise, make no mistake. Neither party got everything they wanted, but this legislation is a tangible step forward on the march towards fiscal sanity.” Background Key Policy in the FY12 Appropriations Bill Obamacare: · Rescinds $400 million from Obamacare CO-OPS · Rescinds $10 million in funds for IPAB (rationing board) · Reduces IRS funding by $305 million from FY11 levels, hampering enforcement of the Obamacare revenue provisions including the individual mandate. · Increases CMS funding by $241 million to accommodate the 51% growth in beneficiaries over the last 10 years (due in part to the aging of the baby boomers) · Rejects $400 million additional CMS increase contained in the Senate bill · Tightens CDC restriction on using grant money to lobby (Prevention and Public Health “slush” Fund) Values: · Retains all current pro-life/”values” riders · Reduces Title X funding by $2 million from FY11 levels · Includes $5 million set aside for abstinence only education, added on top of the teenage pregnancy prevention program which was level funded at FY11 levels · Reduces UNFPA by $5 million from FY11 levels · NEW: Includes language that directs no international HIV/AIDS funds go towards needle exchange programs. · NEW: Reinstates the outright ban on distributing sterile hypodermic needs/syringes that was in place prior to FY10-FY11. Labor: · Ergonomics: Prohibits the continued development of the musculoskeletal disorders reporting requirement, otherwise known as the ergonomics standard. · NLRB: Reduces funding by $4 million compared to FY11 levels o Electronic voting: Prohibits the NLRB from promulgating a proposed rule, which would institute electronic voting for union certification, preserving the integrity of the secret ballot. Foreign Affairs: · Full funding for Israel under the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) · UN Reform: Conditions funds for the UN Human Rights Council and withholds 15% of funds for UN Agencies until audits are made fully available. Places conditions on aid to Afghanistan, Pakistan, Egypt, Lebanon, and the Palestinian Authority o Palestinian Authority: § Maintains current law on prohibition of funding for UN agencies that admit Palestine as a member state § Requires termination of Palestinian Authority’s ESF funding if they obtain UN membership, permits Presidential waiver § Requires closure of the PLO office in Washington if Palestine obtains UN membership, permits Presidential waiver. o Pakistan: Contains $850 million for Pakistan Counter Insurgency Fund, adds certification requirement on cooperation with counterterrorism effects and cooperation on visas, among other items, in order to receive funding (with a national security waiver). o Egypt: Conditions aid to Egypt on permitting religious freedom, free and fair elections, and maintenance of Israel- Egypt Peace Treaty, among other items (with a national security waiver). ###
12.13.2011	Washington, DC – Last night, Congressman K. Michael Conaway signed the conference report for the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), clearing the way for it to come before the full House this week. The NDAA authorizes spending levels and establishes priorities for military activities for the Department of Defense during fiscal year 2012. In signing the report, the Congressman made the following statement: “This legislation sets the policy for the Department of Defense. As a member of this conference, it is my responsibility to consider what a far leaner future means for our nation’s military capabilities. “This bill will ensure our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and around the globe have the equipment, resources, and training necessary to complete their mission and safely return home. It also will give our warriors peace of mind that their pay and benefits are secure, as well as provides enlistment bonuses and retention pay for those critical jobs necessary to keep America safe. “As a CPA, I am also proud to report the final version of the defense authorization includesprovisions I authored improving the Department of Defense’s financial responsibility. I owe it to the taxpayers of District 11 to continue to fight for good fiscal stewardship from all Federal Departments and Agencies. These provisions reaffirm our commitment to work with the Pentagon to right their fiscal ship and I look forward to this continued effort.” Recently, Speaker Boehner appointed Rep. Conaway to serve on the bipartisan, bicameral conference committee for the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. The Conference Committee worked to resolve differences between the House and Senate passed NDAA language. The final Conference Report is expected to pass overwhelmingly in both Houses. ### Conaway Press
12.01.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. K. Michael Conaway made the following comment regarding the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announcement to extend the final determination of whether to provide protection under the Endangered Species Act for the dunes sagebrush lizard. “I am pleased that US Fish and Wildlife Service decided to delay their final determination regarding the dunes sagebrush lizard for another six months; however, it is imperative with this extension that we do not sit on our heels. After almost a year of effort spent compiling overwhelming evidence to prove the lizard is not endangered, we have just six more short months to convince the Service that listing the lizard is not warranted. It is was the quick action and hard work of many individuals and organizations to prepare enough information to refute the Service’s assumptions and secure this extension. In the coming months, I look forward continuing to work alongside local producers, ranchers, and landowners to make the final case against a needless listing that would devastate oil and gas production and the West Texas economy.”
11.04.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman K. Michael Conaway issued the following statement regarding the October unemployment report. “When the Democrats' $1 trillion stimulus passed over deep conservative objections, President Obama promised unemployment would be 6.5 percent by today and 5.5 percent by Election Day 2012. In reality, national unemployment has been nine percent or higher for 28 of the last 30 months. My Republican colleagues and I opposed this bill because we knew that government spending cannot create employment. “More recently, President Obama has been touting a new campaign slogan, “we can’t wait.” One of the few things I agree with the President on is that with more than 14 million people out of work, Americans cannot wait. "For the past year, House Republicans have worked to remove the barriers inhibiting our job creators to succeed. Since January, the House has passed 22 bipartisan jobs bills that remain shelved in the Senate. Instead of wasting more time on public demagoguery, the President should push Leader Reid to demand the Senate begin voting on the 22 jobs bills waiting for action.“ ### Conaway Press
10.13.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement after a House Armed Services Committee hearing on National Defense and U.S. Military Assessment: “I am encouraged by Secretary Panetta’s announcement to accelerate the Defense Department’s audit readiness preparation by three years. I am pleased Secretary Panetta recognizes the importance of ensuring the impact of each dollar in the Defense budget is maximized to protect our nation’s security and take care of our warfighters efficiently and effectively. “While we are still engaged in two wars, budgetary issues at home are threatening to hollow out our forces and deplete our national security capabilities. We cannot allow poor business practices in the Department of Defense to undermine our national security. I am confident in Secretary Panetta’s leadership on this issue and look forward to working with him, alongside my colleagues, to correct the Department’s financial management problems.” ###
09.21.2011	Washington, DC – Yesterday, following a HASC Panel meeting on Business Challenges within the Defense Industry, Chairman Mike Conaway (R-TX), and Ranking Member Robert Andrews (D-NJ) of the Panel on Financial Management and Auditability Reform made the following statement: “We applaud Chairman McKeon for standing up this important Panel to address the growing concerns of conducting business with the Department of Defense. Panel Chairman Shuster, Ranking Member Larsen, and their entire panel bring a wide swath of private sector expertise to address business challenges in the defense industry. We have had success in the past with acquisition reform and look forward to working with this new Panel as we move forward.” ### Congressman Conaway Press
09.13.2011	Washington, DC – Today, following a review of President Obama’s “American Jobs Act 2011”, Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement: “The President’s proposal is a ‘tax and spend’ bill masquerading as jobs legislation. Instead of identifying real saving within our current budget, the President proposed a plan to raise taxes by $460 billion over the next ten years to finance this spending. After the failure of the first stimulus, you would of thought the White House finally got it: ‘permanent taxes for temporary spending’ does nothing to create jobs. ### Congressman Conaway Press
08.19.2011	Midland/Odessa Monday, Aug. 22 6:30-8:00 pm O’Brien Hall CAF San Angelo Friday, Aug. 26 11:00a-12:00 pm Sol Meyer Administration Building Auditorium 2601 West Ave. N ASU Campus For more information, please contact Patsy Bain at 432.687.2390.
07.12.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Members of Congress joined a unique group of industry executives, state officials, technical experts, and NGOs to kick off the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative (The EOR Initiative) on Capitol Hill. After the event, Congressman Conaway said, “Necessity drives innovation and the National Enhanced Oil Recovery Initiative is behind the innovation that fully utilizes our resources, and decreases our dependence on foreign oil.” The EOR Initiative includes key leaders from business, states, and NGOs that are coming together to tackle a key piece of America’s overall energy security challenge: increasing the supply of domestic oil through enhanced oil recovery using carbon dioxide (CO2-EOR). Conaway continued, “Further, the EOR provides much-needed jobs, is environmentally friendly and does not require any large government subsidies to operate, thereby easing fiscal burdens on the government. Overall, I applaud EOR’s efforts and the positive impact the initiative will have on the country.” EOR Initiative Background Note In CO2-EOR, carbon dioxide is injected into oil wells to help draw more oil to the surface, while the carbon dioxide remains sequestered underground in deep geologic formations. Expanding CO2-EOR will increase domestic production from already developed oil fields, while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and creating economic opportunities. The more than 30-member group will develop recommendations for federal and state policymakers on how to ramp up CO2-EOR. The slate of recommendations is expected to be released in early 2012. The EOR Initiative is being facilitated by the Great Plains Institute and the Pew Center on Global Climate Change. The EOR Initiative participant list and additional background materials will be provided at the briefing. ###
07.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) supported passage of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2012 (H.R. 2219). After voting, Congressman Conaway issued the following statement: “The 2012 Department of Defense Appropriations Act provides the necessary funding to support our troops both at home and abroad,” said Congressman Conaway. The constant challenges and threats abroad require our service members’ undivided attention. This means our service members cannot afford the time to be concerned over things like insufficient funding or inadequate equipment – too many live are at stake. Instead, they rely on Congress to provide them with the necessary resources and tools to succeed in their mission in keeping America safe.” Conaway went on to say, “In this time of economic hardship, I applaud the Appropriations Committee for making tough budgeting decisions regarding cuts to Defense budget, whilst ensuring our military members are adequately provided for, thus preserving our national security.” The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2012 passed the House of Representatives 336 to 87. Amendment Note: Yesterday, the House adopted an amendment offered by Congressman Conaway (R-TX) and Bill Flores (R-TX) to repeal Section 526 of the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act. Following the vote Congressman Conaway made the following comments: “Under both Democratic and Republican majorities, the U.S. House of Representatives has overwhelmingly passed National Defense Authorization Acts that include a provision reducing the stifling effects Section 526 of the so-called 2007 Energy Bill has on our warfighter’s ability to secure fuel from non-conventional sources,” said Congressman Conaway. “I strongly support any and all efforts to remove obstacles that prevent the DoD from purchasing fuel, a critical element to accomplish their primary mission – keeping America safe.” ###
07.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives adopted an amendment from Mike Conaway (R-Texas) and Congressmen Bill Flores (R-Texas) repealing Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. The amendment states that no funds shall be made available to enforce Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007. Early this year, nearly identical legislation was included in the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations and Agriculture Appropriations bills. Following adoption, Congressman Conaway and Flores made the following statements: “Under both Democratic and Republican majorities, the U.S. House of Representatives has overwhelmingly passed National Defense Authorization Acts that include a provision reducing the stifling effects Section 526 of the 2007 so called Energy Bill has on our warfighter’s ability to secure fuel from non-conventional sources,” said Congressman Conaway. “I strongly support any and all efforts to remove obstacles that prevent the DoD from purchasing fuel, which is necessary for the military to accomplish its primary mission: Keeping America and Americans safe.” “Our Nation’s military should not be burdened with wasting it’s time studying fuel emissions when there is a simple fix–and that is not restricting their fuel choices based on extreme environmental views, policies and regulations like Section 526. Section 526 increases our reliance on Middle Eastern oil, hinders our military readiness and our national security, prevents the use of safe, clean, and efficient North American oil and gas, increases the cost of American food and energy and hurts American jobs and the American economy,” said Congressman Flores. “Placing limits on federal agencies, particularly the Defense Department’s, fuel choices is an unacceptable precedent to set in regards to America’s energy policy and independence. We must ensure that our military becomes more energy independent and that it can effectively and efficiently rely on domestic and stable sources of fuel. Stopping the impact of Section 526 helps us promote American energy, improve the American economy and create American jobs.” ###
07.06.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rogers, Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference recognized Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) for winning the Bronze bracket of the 2011 GOP New Media Challenge. Upon receiving the recognition, Conaway said, “I am honored to have won this award. New Media has become an integral part of communicating with constituents in a timely and concise manner. Constituents can now track my voting, comments and the latest news almost instantly.” Last year, the House Republican Conference created the new media challenge to encourage members to engage with their constituents on Twitter, Facebook and Youtube. The first week of the competition participants were paired at random in a “March Madness,” style bracket and at the conclusion of the week, winners moved to the championship bracket, and losers went to the bronze bracket. Every week thereafter the winners moved to the subsequent round and the losers were eliminated. After seven weeks of Tweeting, Facebooking, and YouTubing, Rep. John Fleming (R-LA) claimed first victor with 300,000 new Facebook likes, Twitter followers, and YouTube views. “Afterwards, Congressman Conaway offered, “I would like to thank my constituents for this award, without their support, this victory would have not been possible.” ###
07.01.2011	Washington, DC – Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), member of the House Armed Services Committee, announced today that he has sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta regarding the inadequate accounting of federal funds at the Department of Defense. “With this letter I hope to retain continuity as Secretary Gates departs DoD and Secretary Panetta arrives. This issue must remain a top priority to all leadership at the Pentagon,” said Congressman Conaway. Testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) on his confirmation as Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta told Senators “[If] I am confirmed, one of the first things I am going to do is to try to see if we can’t take steps to try to improve on that timetable so that we can say to the American taxpayer that what we are spending on national defense is being fully audited.” “I applaud incoming Secretary Panetta’s energy and enthusiasm to accomplish this fiscal readiness on or before the 2017 deadline and look forward to working with him on this issue in the future,” commented Congressman Conaway. Click for Letter Background from letter: • DoD represents nearly 20 percent of our (U.S.) entire federal budget • Numerous programs and operations within DoD are at a high risk of vulnerability to waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement • Currently 60 percent of the financial community at the Pentagon exists outside the auditing, accounting, and financial management job classifications • DoD leadership needs to make it a priority to integrate this 60 percent into the financial management system to ensure DoD reaches its clean audit goals by 2017 Background Rep. Conaway • 112th Congress: Expected Chairman of HASC panel focused on financial reform at the DoD • 111th Congress: Ranking Member, Defense Acquisition Reform Panel • Founding Member of the House CPA Caucus • FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act: Rep Conaway played important role in dealing with the financial management issues • Roll Call - Conaway: DoD needs to get its fiscal house in order • CNN – Pentagon says it’s moving toward being ‘audit-ready’ ###
06.22.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement ahead of President Obama’s speech on a potential drawdown in Afghanistan. “I remain steadfast in my support for our troops in Afghanistan and the progress they have made on the ground. The 2009 surge was successful in halting the Taliban and increasing stability in the region. We should listen to Secretary Gates and General Petraeus and maintain a strong combat presence until such a time as we can turn over security to the government of Afghanistan.” “I look forward to hearing the President’s strategy tonight and sincerely hope he will follow the advice of his commanders on the ground, not on the prevailing political winds.” ###
06.20.2011	Washington, DC – Wednesday, June 29th, 2011 Congressman Mike Conaway will host a town hall meeting with constituents in Mason, Texas from 10:00 – 10:45 a.m. to listen to local residents’ concerns and answer questions regarding current issues in Congress. Who: Congressman Mike Conaway What: Town Hall Meeting When: Wednesday, June 29, 2011 10:00 – 10:45 a.m. Where: Richard P. Eckert Civic Center 1024 McKinley Avenue Mason, Texas For more information, please contact Nancy Watson in Congressman Conaway’s Llano office at 469-323-0523.
06.16.2011	Washington, DC – Today, General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway issued the following statement regarding H.R. 2112, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies. share: f t Washington, DC – Today, General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway issued the following statement regarding H.R. 2112, the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration and Related Agencies. “It is with reluctance that I cast a vote in favor of today’s House Agriculture Appropriations legislation. This bill funds programs and enables various activities that are critical to both out country’s agriculture producers and our nation’s food supply, said Congressman Conaway.” “I commend the work of many of my colleagues in achieving a balance of fiscal responsibility and an appropriate and ongoing federal invest in agriculture. However, I have grave concerns with a provision adopted on the House Floor that could incite a retaliatory trade war between Brazil and the United States. That is and has been one of my main arguments against attempts to craft farm policy through amendments on inappropriate legislative vehicles on the House floor. This is how serious mistakes are made, and one was committed today. I have received assurance from Republican Leadership that we will continue to work on reconciling this issue as the legislation moves forward. It was with this guarantee that I ultimately decided to cast a vote in favor of H.R. 2112.” The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops. ###
05.31.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement as the House of Representatives considered legislation to raise the debt ceiling without any spending cuts or budget reforms. The Obama Administration, along with over 100 Democrats, have called for a vote on such a debt ceiling increase. "Washington spending is out control and this country is on the path to financial ruin," said Congressman Conaway. "Tonight I voted against President Obama's request for a clean debt limit increase. Washington cannot continue to borrow money without a plan to reduce our growing debt. Our nation faces crushing deficits every year as far into the future as we can predict. Failure to even begin addressing this systemic imbalance is not an option. I will only support an increase in borrowing authority when a credible plan to substantially reduce our annual deficits is offered.” ###
05.26.2011	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) supported passage of the fiscal year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1540). This legislation provides our men and women in uniform the funding necessary to continue their mission of keeping America safe. share: f t Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) supported passage of the fiscal year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act (H.R. 1540). This legislation provides our men and women in uniform the funding necessary to continue their mission of keeping America safe. “The Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) reflects the resounding support the House of Representatives has for our men and women in uniform. With constant challenges and threats abroad, our service members rely on Congress to provide them with the necessary resources and tools to succeed. By passing this bill, the House moved one step closer to meeting that obligation, said Congressman Conaway.” “Also included in the bill was language I offered that to assist our warfighters ability to access the least expensive and most readily available fuel supplies. “As a CPA, it is satisfying to know the House version of the defense authorization includes language concerning the Department of Defense’s financial responsibility. I owe it to the taxpayers of District 11 to continue to fight for good fiscal stewardship from all Federal Departments and Agencies. These provisions reaffirm our commitment to work with Pentagon to right their fiscal ship and I look forward to my continued work with the Department. “In the days leading up to Memorial Day, this vote has caused me to reflect on the great sacrifices our U.S. service men and women and their families make on a daily basis. We owe it to them to make sure the U.S. military is adequately prepared, equipped, and funded to do the difficult tasks we continuously require of them. The House version of the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act guarantees Congress provides our troops what they need.” The FY 2012 National Defense Authorization Act passed the House of Representatives today on a vote of 322 to 96. ### Congressman Conaway Press
05.11.2011	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, May 10, 2011, Congressman Mike Conaway (Texas-11) joined Twitter @ConawayTX11, opening a new medium for residents of Texas’ 11th Congressional district to communicate with their Congressman. share: f t “Over the last two years, outlets such as Twitter have fundamentally changed the way Members communicate with their constituents. I hope to utilize this new tool to reach a broader audience, and inform folks in my district on what I am doing at home and in Washington.” Also happening: Congressman Conaway now has a Facebook Fan Page. Previously, Rep. Conaway’s Facebook restricted his account to only 5,000 friends; however, with the newly created fan page, the Congressman’s Facebook can accept unlimited fan request. Click here to become a fan. ###
05.11.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX), Leonard Boswell (D-IA), Patrick McHenry (R-NC), Mike Quigley (D-IL), and Randy Neugebauer (R-TX) introduced legislation (H.R. 1840), to improve the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s (CFTC) existing cost-benefit analysis (CBA) of its regulations and orders. H.R. 1840 would more align the Commission’s CBA to reflect the President’s Executive Order, issued in January. The CFTC is an independent agency; therefore, they are currently excluded from the President’s Executive Order. share: f t Rep. Mike Conaway, Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management: “The American people deserve to know the implications of new regulations impacting the futures industry. Just as President Obama’s Executive Order directed government agencies to evaluate the cost of regulations on jobs and the economy, this bipartisan legislation will ensure the CFTC conducts a comprehensive qualitative and quantitative analysis of their proposed regulations. “I look forward to working with both my Republican and Democratic colleagues to ensure that any future regulations put forward by the Commission work towards providing certainty within the marketplace in a manner that will not artificially drive up the cost of conducting business and interfere with the proper functioning of our domestic financial system” Rep. Leonard Boswell, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management: “This legislation brings the CFTC in line with President Obama’s executive order requiring agencies to show evidence that the benefits of each regulation considered outweigh the costs of enforcing it. While the CFTC operates as an independent agency, it should be subject to the same scrutiny as other government agencies to prevent burdensome regulation and ensure that CFTC rules support goals of economic growth, job creation, or competitiveness. As we begin to enforce regulations to protect consumers from the recklessness of Wall Street, we must ensure that our government agencies are held to the same high standards.” Rep. Patrick McHenry, Chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services, and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs: “The staggering number of new regulations from CFTC will have serious effects on job creation in this country. It's clear to everyone, except, apparently, the CFTC. It is imperative that economists conduct adequate cost-benefit analysis before regulations are unleashed on our economy.” Rep. Mike Quigley, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform’s Subcommittee on TARP, Financial Services, and Bailouts of Public and Private Programs: “Regulations are vital to protecting Americans, but we must ensure that they are carefully considered,” said Rep. Quigley. “This bill ensures the CFTC’s cost-benefit analysis is in line with other agencies affected by President Obama’s executive order.” Rep. Randy Neugebauer, Chairman of the House Financial Services’ Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations and Member of the House Committee on Agriculture’s Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management: “The CFTC is tasked with implementing over 60 rules related to Dodd-Frank Act. These decisions impact trillion dollar markets, yet the CFTC’s boilerplate cost benefit analyses do not quantify costs or determine whether the benefits of each rule outweigh the costs. It should go without saying—government ought not to act unless the benefits of action outweigh the costs. “ About the Bill: Currently, the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), the CFTC’s authorizing legislation, includes a vague provision (Section 15(a)) that directs the CFTC to “consider” costs and benefits when it engages in rulemaking. However, existing statute does not require the CFTC to quantify costs and benefits in order to determine whether the benefits outweigh the costs, and the CFTC’s approach to complying with 15(a) appears to be the minimum required by the statute and reflects a “one size fits all” approach to section 15(a) compliance. In fact, in its rule proposals, the CFTC includes this notation about the limitations of the cost-benefit analysis required by 15(a): “By its terms, Section 15(a) does not require the CFTC to quantify the costs and benefits of a rule or to determine whether the benefits of the rulemaking outweigh its costs; rather, it requires that the CFTC “consider” the costs and benefits of its actions...” As a result, many of the indications of costs associated with a proposed rule have been vague, such as “the proposed requirements could impose significant compliance costs,” without any further description. Alternatively, in the event the CFTC has attempted to quantify costs, their calculations have been far less than calculations performed by stakeholders affected by the rule. The legislation introduced today would require the Commission to quantify the costs and benefits of future regulations and orders, including the impact on market liquidity rather than simply ‘considering’ costs. The bill would also update the Commission’s existing requirements to examine the impacts on the previously unregulated swaps markets in addition to the futures markets in light of new authority given to the CFTC because of Dodd-Frank. Further, the legislation reflects recommendations made by the Commission’s own Inspector General that any cost-benefit analysis should involve the Chief Economist. This bill would only affect future rule proposals and does not require retroactive analysis of any pending proposals. ###
05.04.2011	Washington, DC – Late Tuesday May 2, 2011, Craig Fugate, Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) denied Governor Rick Perry's request for a Major Disaster Declaration to assist Texas with resources for the ongoing wild fire destruction devastating the state. In response, Congressman Mike Conaway (Texas-11) and other members of the Texas Congressional Delegation immediately contacted FEMA representatives requesting specific information and answers regarding the rejection. share: f t "I am deeply troubled FEMA has denied the Governor’s request for a federal Major Disaster Declaration," said Congressman Conaway. "Over the last several months, wild fires have wreaked havoc across our state, burning more than 2.2 million acres – an area roughly the size of Rhode Island and Delaware combined.” “Since November 2010, Texas has responded to more than 9,000 fires, with damages to more than 400 homes across the state. In Response, FEMA has only provided assistance for 22 of those fires, 0.24 percent through their Fire Management Assistance Grants (FMAGs) program. According to the Governor’s office, the FMAG’s only covered 15 to 20 percent of the total cost of the 22 fires.” “Our state and local fire fighters and first responders have done a tremendous job responding to the wild fires; however, the cost of resources necessary to assist their efforts have driven state and local budgets to unsustainable levels. The Governor’s office has reported that some counties have been forced to spend nearly an entire decade’s worth of reserves to sustain their efforts. Without federal assistance, these communities will suffer immense challenges and obstacles as they attempt to rebuild and recover from this disaster. “I refuse to accept FEMA’s response and have joined my colleagues in the Texas Congressional delegation in asking FEMA: 1. What was the threshold for Direct Federal Assistance and why did Texas not meet that threshold? 2. What was the per capita threshold for Public Assistance Category B and why was that not met? 3. What specific information would need to be received by FEMA in the event of an appeal in order to reach a different outcome?”
05.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 757 designating a courthouse in Midland, TX the George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush United States Courthouse and George Mahon Federal Building. share: f t “I am pleased to finally have this courthouse designated for two former Presidents’ with West Texas roots” said Congressman Conaway. “We are grateful for their faithful stewardship of the powers entrusted to them and their legacy in advancing freedom, human dignity, and the rule of law across the globe.” The newly named courthouse is located at 200 East Wall Street, Midland, Texas 79701, and is attached to a U.S. post office. The name on the building which includes courthouse and post office is the “George Mahon Federal Building United States Courthouse.” Congressman Conaway’s office worked with the General Services Administration (GSA), the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Courts and presiding Judge Rob Junell, to determine the best way to continue honoring him and the former Presidents with this designation. After this bill is signed into law, the new name of the building will be the “George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush United States Courthouse and George Mahon Federal Building. “It is fitting that we are choosing to name a court house in their honor today, because it is fidelity to the law, above all else, that secures the blessings of liberty these men worked so hard to promote. This courtroom will be a symbol of the triumph of law over violence, the triumph of free minds over the iron wills of dictators.” “With more than twenty years of service in the White House, President George H.W. Bush and George W. Bush faithfully served and protected this nation. By renaming this courthouse in Midland, TX we are able to honor these two great Texans.”
05.02.2011	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Rep. Mike Conaway (R-Texas), a member of the Armed Services and Intelligence Committees released the following statement today, after President Obama announced American forces have killed Osama bin Laden: share: f t “In December 2001, President Bush said we would get Osama bin Laden and a decade later, his words ring true. Despite the enormous obstacles and great sacrifices, the brave members of our military and intelligence community have completed their mission and brought this madman to justice. Their accomplishment marks a great victory for America and all those who have served tirelessly to defend and preserve our nation’s way of life.” “The praise and gratitude owed to each of our nation’s warriors is beyond words; however, I congratulate them, and all those involved on a job well done.” “While we celebrate this victory, we must remember to stay vigilant and focused on succeeding in the ongoing war on terror. Despite the elimination of an influential leader, domestic and international threats persist. Defeating al Qaeda and the Taliban remain paramount to creating a stable environment in Afghanistan, so we can turn security over and bring our military home.”
04.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Saturday, April 30th, 2011 Congressman Mike Conaway will host a town hall meeting in Odessa, TX from 3:30 – 4:30 p.m. to listen to local residents’ concerns and answer questions regarding current issues in Congress. Who: Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) What: Town hall meeting When: 3:30 – 4:30 p.m. CST on Saturday, April 30, 2011 Where: University of Texas, Permian Basin Library/Lecture Center 4901 East University Boulevard, Odessa, Texas 79762 For more information, please contact Evan Thomas in Congressman Conaway’s Odessa office at 432-331-9667.
04.29.2011	Washington, D.C. – Friday, April 29, 2011, Congressman Mike Conaway will host a town hall meeting in Mertzon, TX from 1:40 - 2:15 p.m. to listen to local residents’ concerns and answer questions regarding current issues in Congress. Who: Congressman Mike Conaway What: Town hall meeting When: 1:40 – 2:15 p.m. CST on Friday, April 29, 2011 Where: Irion County Courthouse Commissioner’s Courtroom 209 North Park View Mertzon, Texas 76941 For more information please contact Joanne Powell in Congressman Conaway’s San Angelo office at 325-659-4010.
04.15.2011	Today, the House of Representatives passed the 2012 House Budget, “The Path to Prosperity.” After the vote, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: share: f t “The Path to Prosperity marks the end of business as usual in the House of Representatives and the beginning of an honest discussion with the American people about our future, the nature of government, and how we must learn to live within our means. With the passage of this bill, the House of Representatives has laid out a clear path towards fiscal sanity in the Federal Government.” The Path to Prosperity, H.Con.Res. 34, lays out the Republican plan to balance our nation’s books. It calls for $5.8 trillion in spending reductions, eliminating tax loopholes and reducing tax rates, and protecting the promises made through our entitlement programs. This legislation passed by a vote of 235 – 193. Conaway went on to say, “While I do not support every line of this budget, I am in strong support of the ideals that frame it and the vision it paints. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to take up and pass this budget without delay.” ### Congressman Mike Conaway is a Certified Public Accountant and co-chair of the Congressional Caucus on CPAs and Accountants.
04.14.2011	Please tune in to see me on the Glenn Beck Program, with guest host Eric Bolling, today at 4:00 pm CST on the Fox News Channel. Check your local listings and tune in for a discussion on the budget battle in Washington.
04.14.2011	“While the CR represents the largest real dollar spending cut in American history, these cuts are still woefully inadequate.” “I voted for the CR because it cuts almost $315B in real dollars over 10 years and changes the discussion in Washington from ‘how much to spend’ to ‘how much to cut.’ This CR also gave us our only chance to force votes in the Senate on two very important issues: repealing Obamacare and defunding Planned Parenthood.” “The debate now shifts from cutting billions of dollars to cutting trillions of dollars with the FY 2012 Republican Budget. I will continue to fight ‘tooth and nail’ to cut spending and pass a balanced budget amendment. We owe it to our children and grandchildren to reverse the current trend of out-of-control spending and record debt.”
04.13.2011	Washington, D.C. – Today, Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11) again questioned the varied impacts of Dodd-Frank implementation during a hearing of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. During the hearing, the subcommittee continued examination of the impact of the multitude of new rules proposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) by listening to testimony from the General Counsel of the Commission as well as a panel of industry participants. Chairman Conaway made this statement following the hearing: “The CFTC has proposed an array of rules that, as they currently stand, exceed Congressional intent and demonstrate a lack of regulatory focus amid a shortage of resources. Further exacerbating the problem is the Commission’s seemingly complete disregard of conducting a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis. It is incumbent upon the Commission to begin gravitating towards prioritizing their regulatory focus on mitigating systemic risk in a manner that represents Congressional intent and takes heed to the overwhelming comments of concern by market participants thus far.” The cost-benefit analysis undertaken thus far by the CFTC has represented a minimalist approach in an effort to simply tout compliance with the requirements of Section 15(a) of the Commodities Exchange Act (CEA). To date, projections of costs have been vague and inaccurate; in one instance when the CFTC has tried to quantify them, they were 4,000 times lower than estimates performed by stakeholders. Further, the CFTC has dedicated significant resources to proposing multiple rules which exceed what was required by Dodd-Frank or intended by Congress. Conaway went on to say, “As we move forward adherence to the more comprehensive qualitative and quantitative aspects of the President’s Executive Order and a calculation of the impact of costs beyond entities that must directly comply with the proposed regulations would benefit all parties. Such an analysis and consideration would likely decrease interference of the proper functioning of our domestic financial system. Efforts undertaken by the CFTC should represent help, not hindrance, towards economic recovery.” Chairman Conaway will continue to hold oversight hearings throughout the rulemaking process and implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops.
04.12.2011	Today, April 12 at 7:35 p.m. Central, I will be hosting a live Telephone Town Hall meeting, and would love for you to join in on the conversation. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 and use the passcode 17531. As always, I encourage you to check out my website and Facebook Page I look forward to visiting with everyone tonight. -Mike
04.08.2011	Once a year Members of the U.S. House of Representatives have the opportunity to host locally judged art competitions for high school age students within their districts. Since this competition entitled, “An Artistic Discovery,” was created in 1982, hundreds of thousands of high school students have participated at the local level. The winning piece of art from each Congressional district is displayed in the Cannon tunnel, a pedestrian walkway leading to the United States Capitol, for approximately one year. This walkway is frequented by Members of Congress, staff and the general public as they enter the Capitol Building and thus provides an opportunity for thousands to enjoy the talents of young artists from every region of the country. Each winning student will be invited to attend a ribbon-cutting ceremony in the Cannon tunnel of the Capitol Building. The deadline for art entries is April 20th. Please direct all entries and questions to Patsy Bain in Congressman Conaway’s office at 432.687.2390. A reception will be held on the Odessa College campus to recognize all of the participants and to announce the winner of the contest. Odessa College Learning Resources Center – Options Gallery 201 W. University Odessa, TX 79764 1:00-2:00pm Saturday, April 30, 2011
04.08.2011	Washington, DC – Today 34 Republican members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid urging him to pass the most recent continuing resolution, H.R. 1363, in order to continue funding for our Armed Services and prevent a shutdown of the federal government. Please see the below statements, text of the letter and the attached document with signatures: share: f t Thirty-Four Representatives Send Letter to Majority Leader Harry Reid Urging Him to Act Washington, DC – Today 34 Republican members of the U.S. House of Representatives sent a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid urging him to pass the most recent continuing resolution, H.R. 1363, in order to continue funding for our Armed Services and prevent a shutdown of the federal government. Please see the below statements, text of the letter and the attached document with signatures: “While I am disappointed we find ourselves in this situation, I refuse to let partisan politics endanger the livelihood of our service men and women, and their families, who work tirelessly defending our freedoms. It is now on the shoulders of the Democrat-controlled Senate to pass this bill and for the President to sign it.” – Congressman Mike Conaway, Represents Texas’ 11th Congressional District “If the only barrier to providing essential funding to our troops and preventing a shutdown of the federal government are legislative riders, then why hasn’t Senator Reid removed language he disagrees with and sent a bill back to the House for consideration? I strongly urge him to exercise leadership and fulfill his constitutional obligations to the American people.” – Representative Brian Bilbray, Represents California’s 50th Congressional District “It is unfair to hold the brave men and women of our military hostage and to use them as a bargaining chip in a philosophical dispute. The time to bicker over a budget has passed. Now is the time to stand up for all that is true and good about the United States of America, specifically the troops who are fighting to keep this land safe.” – Congressman Tom Marino, Represents Pennsylvania’s 10th Congressional District Please find the letter below. Dear Majority Leader Reid: It has been 48 days since the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1 funding the federal government for the remainder of FY 2011 and the Senate has yet to propose any alternative. The failure to act by our upper house is why we find ourselves in this grave situation. The mere threat of a government shutdown is a dangerous distraction for over 242,000 service men and women around the globe. As members of Congress, we took the same oath they did to protect and preserve the Constitution of the United States; while they risk their lives fulfilling this solemn obligation, we continue to bicker here at home. This morning you declared, “The debate has nothing to do with the number; it has everything to do with women’s health. That’s the only issue that was left undone when we left the White House last night.” If this is true, we strongly urge you to consider H.R. 1363 (The Department of Defense and Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act), remove language you disagree with, and send your version back to the House for consideration. A shutdown would deny millions of American families from receiving essential life services, negatively impact over 800,000 federal employees, and set a terrible example for our children and the rest of the world. We strongly urge you to act immediately to meet our constitutional obligations to the American people and keep the government running. Respectfully, Brian Bilbray (CA-50) Duncan D. Hunter (CA-52) Ralph M. Hall (TX-4) Ed Whitfield (KY-1) Jason Chaffetz (UT-3) John Shimkus (IL-19) Tom Cole (OK-4) Steven C. LaTourette (OH-14) Kristi Noem (SD-1) K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) Joe Wilson (SC-2) Elton Gallegly (CA-24) Tom Marino (PA-10) Scott DesJarlais (TN-4) Don Manzullo (IL-16) Robert B. Aderholt (AL-4) Larry Bucshon (IN-8) Todd R. Platts (PA-19) Mike Kelly (PA-3) Steven Palazzo (MS-4) Lou Barletta (PA-11) Bobby Schilling (IL-17) Michael Grimm (NY-13) Joe Walsh (IL-8) Robert Dold (IL-10) Michael C. Burgess (TX-26) Virginia Foxx (NC-5) Joe Heck (NV-3) Pat Tiberi (OH-12) H.Morgan Griffith (VA-9) Michael Fitzpatrick (PA-8) Robert Hurt (VA-5) Walter B. Jones (NC-3)
04.01.2011	“I am alarmed to hear that the Administration cannot explain the United States’ role in a post-Qadhafi Libya. We must think about the next step in our involvement in Libya and ask the tough questions like what Libya looks like without Qadhafi." share: f t Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) pressed Defense Secretary Robert Gates to contemplate the situation in Libya should Qadhafi be removed from power. Conaway made this statement following the hearing: “I am alarmed to hear that the Administration cannot explain the United States’ role in a post-Qadhafi Libya. We must think about the next step in our involvement in Libya and ask the tough questions like what Libya looks like without Qadhafi. “The effects of forty years under a dictator means strong leadership is needed to build a representative government in Libya. I remain very concerned about what comes after Qadhafi and believe the Administration needs to start paying attention.”
03.30.2011	His remarks this afternoon consisted largely of the same empty green-job-rhetoric that he has offered since he was a candidate. He did not offer a comprehensive strategy to power our nation, he offered his utopic vision of a green economy powered by government subsidies and federal mandates. Implementing his policies will raise costs for businesses and families, waste taxpayer dollars on unsustainable industries, and drive employment overseas. share: f t Today, President Obama spoke at Georgetown University about the future and security of American energy. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made this statement following the President’s speech: “The President’s speech was notable in that it’s the first time he has talked about oil and gas companies without demonizing their profits and demanding they pay higher taxes. I applaud him for his restraint. “His remarks this afternoon consisted largely of the same empty green-job-rhetoric that he has offered since he was a candidate. He did not offer a comprehensive strategy to power our nation, he offered his utopic vision of a green economy powered by government subsidies and federal mandates. Implementing his policies will raise costs for businesses and families, waste taxpayer dollars on unsustainable industries, and drive employment overseas. “Our national energy policy is not a corporate welfare program. It should be focused solely on producing the cheap, abundant, and reliable energy we need to sustain our economic competitiveness. Across our nation, thousands of men and women are eager for work, waiting on the President to lift restrictions on energy development and allow them to again invest in America’s future. They ask only for the opportunity to work hard at the thing they do best – powering our economy.”
03.28.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Conaway and Congressman Andrews released the following statement after being informed of the Department of Defense’s unilateral decision to issue a stop-work order on the F136 engine program for the Joint Strike Fighter. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Conaway and Congressman Andrews released the following statement after being informed of the Department of Defense’s unilateral decision to issue a stop-work order on the F136 engine program for the Joint Strike Fighter. “We remain concerned that the decision to cease work on this valuable engine program is not only bad for business, but in this case it becomes a threat to our national security. By cancelling this worthwhile program, the Department of Defense is standing watch as potentially more than $20 billion dollars in savings is washed down the drain with a sole-source contract.” “As Chair and Co-Chair of the Defense Acquisition Reform panel, we remain steadfast in our support for this program and hope that the Department will allow for competition. This will not only ensure the taxpayer dollars are spent responsibly, but will provide the Department of Defense the flexibility it needs to maintain our national security presence.” Congressmen Conaway and Andrews serve as the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Defense Acquisition Reform Panel within the House Armed Services Committee and continue to work towards developing a sound acquisition strategy.
03.18.2011	U.S. Representative Mike Conaway, R-Midland, will be one of the guest speakers at the Lamesa Cotton Growers annual meeting here next week. share: f t Lamesa Cotton Growers schedule annual meeting U.S. Representative Mike Conaway, R-Midland, will be one of the guest speakers at the Lamesa Cotton Growers annual meeting here next week. Conaway currently is serving as the chairman of the General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee of the House Agriculture Committee. In that position, he is expected to play a major role in developing the next U.S. Farm Bill. The luncheon will begin at 12 noon at the Forrest Park Community Center along South Houston Avenue in Lamesa. The luncheon is free, but everyone planning to attend is asked to call the Dawson County AgriLife Extension office in advance at 872-3444 so that organizers will know how many meals to prepare. (See complete story in printed edition of Lamesa Press-Reporter on newsstands now.)
03.17.2011	Washington, DC, March 17 – Congressman K. Michael Conaway’s office will host a Service Academy Day on March 26, 2011, from 1:30-4:30 p.m. CST. This is a useful information session for high school students interested in attending a United States Military Service Academy and for parents, counselors, and educators. Attendees will have the opportunity to meet Service Academy and ROTC representatives. The Academy Day program will include information on each of the five U.S. service academies, an explanation of the nomination procedures and videotape of life at each academy. Information about the event is below: March 26, 2011 1:30-4:30 pm CST Angelo State University MCS Bldg., Room 100 2200 Dena Drive San Angelo, TX For more information, contact JoAnne Powell in Congressman Conaway’s office at 325.659.4010.
03.17.2011	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) fought efforts to remove U.S. troops from Afghanistan in 30 days. share: f t “We must learn from our mistakes, not repeat them, said Conaway, “This measure is misguided and will only guarantee our return to fight the same terrorists tomorrow.” The resolution offered by Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) would direct the president to remove the U.S. Armed Forces from Afghanistan within 30 days of adoption. The resolution failed 321-93-1 We owe it to Americans and Afghanis to get the transition to a stable government right the first time, Conaway continued. “We are there to deny this region a sanctuary for Al-Qaeda and its affiliates. We need to stay until this mission is complete.” As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Conaway remains focused on threats to the national security of the United States.
03.09.2011	We need a comprehensive plan to deal with law of war detention for terrorists. Our legislation closes the gap created by the President on detainee security and continues keep Americans safe. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) added his name as an original cosponsor to the Detainee Security Act of 2011. The bill, introduced by the House Armed Services Committee Chairman, Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, would among many key issues, block funding for the creation or renovation of any facility in the United States to house detainees currently held at Guantanamo Bay. Conaway made the following statement after becoming a cosponsor: “I applaud Chairman McKeon in drafting this critical bill to keep terrorists out of our communities and in military prison where they belong. “President Obama seems to be talking out of both sides of his mouth on the matter. While I am encouraged by his decision this week to reverse his initial Executive Order on military commissions, his statement on closing the facility remains of great concern to me. He states the goal for the United States military is to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda, yet he consistently calls for this appropriate detention facility for enemy combatants to be shut down. “We need a comprehensive plan to deal with law of war detention for terrorists. Our legislation closes the gap created by the President on detainee security and continues keep Americans safe.” As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Conaway remains focused on threats to the national security of the United States. ###
03.01.2011	When I was home last week, one question from my constituents that I could not answer was: Why can’t the Department of Defense provide audited financial statements to the taxpayers? I am frustrated to give them the answer that senior leadership within the Department and the Services has yet to make this issue enough of a priority to make it happen. However, I am pleased to report that The Marine Corps is making significant progress in attaining financial auditability. share: f t Today, during a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) questioned Secretary Ray Mabus on auditing the financial statements of the Department of the Navy. Conaway made this statement following today’s hearing: “When I was home last week, one question from my constituents that I could not answer was: Why can’t the Department of Defense provide audited financial statements to the taxpayers? I am frustrated to give them the answer that senior leadership within the Department and the Services has yet to make this issue enough of a priority to make it happen. However, I am pleased to report that The Marine Corps is making significant progress in attaining financial auditability. “I remain steadfast in pressing the Department and the Services for results. This task requires leadership, and I am disappointed that Secretary Mabus made no mention of his efforts to generate auditable financial statements in his presentation. The American military is the most important investment our country makes and we must not continue to allow bureaucrats at the Pentagon to base significant financial decisions on information systems that cannot be audited. I will continue to press senior leadership within the Pentagon for more progress and more accountability. I hope that through persistence and regular dialogue that we can see tangible results.” As a certified public accountant, and Co-Chairman of the House CPA Caucus, Congressman Conaway remains focused within the House Armed Services Committee to work with the Department of Defense to reach their goal of financial auditability.
02.28.2011	Congressman K. Michael Conaway's office will host a Service Academy Day on March 26, 2011 from 1:30-4:00 pm CST. This is a useful information session for student, parents, counselors, and educators. Attendees will have the opportunity to meet Service Academy and ROTC representatives and learn more about the nomination processes of the participating Congressional offices. share: f t Congressman K. Michael Conaway's office will host a Service Academy Day on March 26, 2011 from 1:30-4:00 pm CST. This is a useful information session for student, parents, counselors, and educators. Attendees will have the opportunity to meet Service Academy and ROTC representatives and learn more about the nomination processes of the participating Congressional offices. Information about the event is below: March 26, 2011 1:30-4:30 pm CST Angelo State University MCS Bldg., Room 100 2200 Dena Drive San Angelo, TX For more information, contact JoAnne Powell in Congressman Conaway's office at 325-659-4010.
02.23.2011	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates urging him to make an audit of the Pentagon a priority. Congress first tasked the Department of Defense with auditing their financial statements in 1990. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) sent a letter to Secretary of Defense Robert Gates urging him to make an audit of the Pentagon a priority. Congress first tasked the Department of Defense with auditing their financial statements in 1990. Conaway made the following statement after sending the letter: “With this letter, I hope to encourage Secretary Gates and his leadership team to put the important goal of an audit of the Pentagon at the forefront of their priorities. Through sound financial management systems, the Pentagon can realize tremendous savings that are advantageous to both the warfighter and the American taxpayer. Without a clean audit of the basic operating functions of the Pentagon, the Department cannot assure American taxpayers that their dollars are being spent wisely. I remain engaged in this situation and stand ready to help the Pentagon make financial auditability a reality.” *Letter to Secretary Gates is attached.
02.22.2011	Today, February 22 at 6:15 p.m. Central, I will be hosting a live Telephone Town Hall meeting, and would love for you to join in on the conversation. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 and use the passcode 17531. share: f t Today, February 22 at 6:15 p.m. Central, I will be hosting a live Telephone Town Hall meeting, and would love for you to join in on the conversation. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 and use the passcode 17531. As always, I encourage you to check out my website and facebook. http://conaway.house.gov http://www.facebook.com/mike.conaway I look forward to visiting with everyone tonight. -Mike
02.19.2011	Today, following a week of vigorous, open, and transparent debate, the House of Representatives passed legislation that would cut $100 billion from President Obama’s request for fiscal year 2011. share: f t Today, following a week of vigorous, open, and transparent debate, the House of Representatives passed legislation that would cut $100 billion from President Obama’s request for fiscal year 2011. For the first time in decades, Members of Congress voted to shrink the federal government. Following the passage of the legislation, Congressman Conaway offered the following statement: “After a long week of debate and the consideration of hundreds of amendments, House Republicans claimed fiscal victory and passed a bill that represents an important first step towards reining in out-of-control federal spending. Voters sent a resounding message in November and today House Republicans showed they got the message to the tune of more than $100 billion. As the 112th Congress progresses, I will continue to work tirelessly to reduce the size, scope, and reach of the Federal government.” H.R. 1, the Full Year Continuing Appropriations Act of 2011, makes appropriations for the remainder of fiscal year 2011 ending on September 30, 2011. H.R. 1 passed the House by a vote of 235-189.
02.18.2011	Earlier today General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway spoke in opposition to an amendment offered by Representative Kind of Wisconsin. If enacted, the amendment would both undermine the 2008 Farm Bill and invite up to $1 billion dollars in tariffs being applied to an array of U.S. exports. Chairman Conaway continues to oppose efforts to renege on the contract the Federal Government entered into with our nation’s farmers and ranchers in the 2008 Farm Bill. share: f t Earlier today General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway spoke in opposition to an amendment offered by Representative Kind of Wisconsin. If enacted, the amendment would both undermine the 2008 Farm Bill and invite up to $1 billion dollars in tariffs being applied to an array of U.S. exports. Chairman Conaway continues to oppose efforts to renege on the contract the Federal Government entered into with our nation’s farmers and ranchers in the 2008 Farm Bill. Below are excerpts (as prepared for delivery) from the Chairman’s Floor statement. “This amendment is a smokescreen by the other side that wants to go after the Farm Bill and it will incite a retaliatory trade war against the United States. The 2008 farm bill was a contract with American farmers. They have put business processes in place based on that five year contract. We will renew, or renegotiate that contract in 2012 and it makes no sense to unwind this policy on a piecemeal basis right now. The contract between the Federal Government and American’s farmers and ranchers allows our nation to enjoy the most affordable, abundant, and safest food and fiber supply in the world and is on the back of this farm bill. Reopening it now on an ad hoc, piecemeal basis is the wrong policy for this country. A vote for this amendment is a vote to institute a trade war with Brazil no matter what the rhetoric is from the other side.” The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops.
02.18.2011	Today, General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway again took to the House Floor in defense of the 2008 Farm Bill which provides certainty for America’s farmers and ranchers. Representative Blumenauer of Oregon offered an amendment that if enacted would prematurely amend existing farm policy. share: f t Today, General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee Chairman Mike Conaway again took to the House Floor in defense of the 2008 Farm Bill which provides certainty for America’s farmers and ranchers. Representative Blumenauer of Oregon offered an amendment that if enacted would prematurely amend existing farm policy. Below (and attached) are Chairman Conaway’s prepared remarks. “I rise to oppose this amendment. Mr. Speaker, again we are debating a policy issue that should be considered during the next Farm Bill debate, a process that will take place next year in an open and transparent manner. During these substantive deliberations, the larger merits of this issue and others will be debated and Members will be allowed to express their support or concerns, and vote their conscience. When crafting the 2008 Farm Bill, concessions were made and reforms enacted, payment limits were no exception. Yet again, the Administration and others are attempting to alter the framework of our nation’s farm policy out of context. It should be noted that the 2008 Farm Bill was one the President stated he supported while campaigning for his current job. He and many like him will undoubtedly continue to demagogue this issue in an attempt to court the political favor of few, but that is not how this process works. Any further changes related to payment limits and other farm policy issues should only be considered as part of the 2012 farm bill debate. Abrupt changes, made in the midst of a producer’s marketing window do nothing but add uncertainty to an already volatile market environment. As I stated earlier, the 2008 Farm Bill represents a five-year contract between America’s agricultural producers and the Federal Government. To renege on that agreement midstream is ill-advised and wrong-headed. I have and will continue to oppose efforts to fundamentally alter our existing policies outside the proper realm of a farm bill debate which will occur next year. Let's defeat this amendment and have a fair, honest, and robust debate this time next year when the Farm Bill is set to expire. Thank you and I yield back.” The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops.
02.16.2011	“I sincerely appreciate the continued work at the Department by Secretary Gates and his team of professionals in their efforts to find inefficiencies in the Defense budget, but there is a glaring problem within the Department that is not receiving enough attention. As a first step, the Department of Defense must focus more effort on auditing the financial systems that it uses to manage its financial affairs. Without a clean audit of these basic functions, the Department cannot assure American taxpayers that their dollars are being spent wisely." share: f t Today, during a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) questioned Secretary of Defense Robert Gates on auditing the financial statements of the Department of Defense. Conaway made this statement following today’s hearing: “I sincerely appreciate the continued work at the Department by Secretary Gates and his team of professionals in their efforts to find inefficiencies in the Defense budget, but there is a glaring problem within the Department that is not receiving enough attention. As a first step, the Department of Defense must focus more effort on auditing the financial systems that it uses to manage its financial affairs. Without a clean audit of these basic functions, the Department cannot assure American taxpayers that their dollars are being spent wisely. “When I go home to West Texas, my constituents are stunned when they hear the Department of Defense can’t be audited. The very fact that there are thousands of auditors at the DOD, yet a proper audit cannot be conducted is eye-opening for this committee. “This issue is one this committee takes very seriously as should the Secretary of Defense. It requires tough leadership and must begin with the Office of the Secretary of Defense.” As a certified public accountant, and Co-Chairman of the House CPA Caucus, Congressman Conaway remains focused within the House Armed Services Committee to work with the Department of Defense to reach their goal of financial auditability.
02.15.2011	“As a CPA, it is in my nature to focus on the financial aspects of any given situation. Thus, I remain concerned that the Commission has refused to fully embrace the President’s Executive Order with respect to a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis that includes both quantitative and qualitative data in rulemaking." share: f t Today, Chairman Mike Conaway (TX-11) questioned the regulatory impact of Dodd-Frank implementation during a hearing of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. During the hearing, the subcommittee continued examination of the impact of the multitude of new rules proposed by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission pursuant to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Chairman Conaway made this statement following the hearing: “As a CPA, it is in my nature to focus on the financial aspects of any given situation. Thus, I remain concerned that the Commission has refused to fully embrace the President’s Executive Order with respect to a comprehensive cost-benefit analysis that includes both quantitative and qualitative data in rulemaking. “I am uncertain how existing law precludes the CFTC from full compliance, but I will continue to request that the Commission adhere to the President’s Executive Order in full, versus in principle. We must be able to ask and answer the tough questions of how much compliance will cost, how business practices may be altered, and just how much additional regulatory burdens may impact economic growth. “I have and will continue to urge the CFTC to emphasize prudence over speed, and to work with shareholders to better manage the process of rulemaking for Dodd-Frank. A rational sequence of rulemaking is not only justified, but vital if we are to ensure that U.S. financial markets retain a competitive edge and are able to continue functioning in both an efficient and effective manner. Today’s hearing highlighted that there continue to be concerns across all industries and sectors regarding the speed and manner in which the CFTC is attempting to meet the staggering mandates of the Dodd-Frank Act.” The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the commodities exchanges; program and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, the Commodity Credit Corporation; risk management, including crop insurance; and specialty crops.
02.09.2011	The Congressional CPA Caucus will serve as an informal, bipartisan group of Members who are CPAs, dedicated to discussing and formulating innovative policy approaches to the issues affecting CPAs – including tax administration and compliance and accounting and auditing standards. The Caucus will work to reduce the compliance burden of our tax laws. It will also seek to provide input on issues being debated by Congress on which CPA’s have particular expertise – including budgeting and fiscal issues. share: f t Today, Congressmen Brad Sherman (D-CA) and Michael Conaway (R-TX) announced the creation of the Bipartisan Congressional CPA Caucus. Congressman Sherman and Congressman Michael Conaway (R-TX) will act as co-chairs. The Congressional CPA Caucus will serve as an informal, bipartisan group of Members who are CPAs, dedicated to discussing and formulating innovative policy approaches to the issues affecting CPAs – including tax administration and compliance and accounting and auditing standards. The Caucus will work to reduce the compliance burden of our tax laws. It will also seek to provide input on issues being debated by Congress on which CPA’s have particular expertise – including budgeting and fiscal issues. “Establishing the CPA Caucus allows us to educate our colleagues about the importance of the accounting profession to American business, and to share our expertise on tax administration and compliance,” said Congressman Sherman, who is a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. “We also hope to bring a bipartisan CPA perspective to the fiscal and budgeting issues facing Congress.” Prior to being elected to Congress, Sherman, who represents the San Fernando Valley in Los Angeles, was a Tax Law Specialist and CPA. He audited large business and government entities, provided tax counsel and advised small businesses on tax issues. Congressman Michael Conaway, an advocate for a simpler and fairer tax system, has sponsored legislation that would bring more accountability in government funding. Conaway earned a degree in Accounting from Texas A & M University-Commerce and, before coming to Congress, worked for Price Waterhouse & Co. “Taxpayer dollars should be spent wisely, or not at all. It is our responsibility to revaluate the spending process in Congress. I look forward to working with our fellow CPAs in Congress to ensure a platform through which we can share our perspective, informed by our unique education and experience, with the rest of our colleagues,” said Conaway. There are eight CPAs in the 112th Congress. In addition to Sherman and Conaway, Congressman John Campbell (R-CA), Congresswoman Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Congressman Collin Peterson (D-MN) are all certified public accountants, as are newly-elected Congressmen Steven Palazzo (R-MS), James Renacci (R-OH) and Bill Flores (R-TX).
01.28.2011	"We must work together to ensure that varied risk management strategies remain affordable and relevant. In the coming months, I look forward to working to ensure that costs, benefits, and consequences be taken into account before all-encompassing regulations are imposed. The actions we’ve requested of Chairman Gensler represent an important first step in this process, and it is my hope he will accommodate the request of Chairman Lucas and I," said Rep. K. Michael Conaway, Chairman of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. share: f t WASHINGTON – Rep. Frank Lucas (R- OK) and Rep. K. Michael Conaway (R-TX) sent a letter to the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), Gary Gensler, yesterday requesting that the agency voluntarily adhere to President Obama's executive order. The executive order calls for certain federal agencies and departments to review regulations to ensure they do not “stifle job creation and make our economy less competitive.” However, the CFTC would be exempt because it is an independent agency. CFTC is tasked with implementing an unprecedented number of new regulations required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which has the potential to impact every segment of the economy. Reps. Lucas and Conaway point out that it is imperative the CFTC consider unintended consequences. "The regulations from Dodd-Frank will have a far-reaching impact on our economy and if the administration excludes them from review then President Obama’s initiative is not credible. The scope and magnitude of Dodd-Frank calls for a careful and methodical rulemaking process to prevent harming an already struggling economy. It is my hope that Chairman Gensler will voluntarily comply with the executive order," said Rep. Frank D. Lucas, Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. "We must work together to ensure that varied risk management strategies remain affordable and relevant. In the coming months, I look forward to working to ensure that costs, benefits, and consequences be taken into account before all-encompassing regulations are imposed. The actions we’ve requested of Chairman Gensler represent an important first step in this process, and it is my hope he will accommodate the request of Chairman Lucas and I," said Rep. K. Michael Conaway, Chairman of the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. Click here to view the letter to Chairman Gensler. The full text of the letter is below. January 26, 2011 Honorable Gary Gensler Chairman Commodity Futures Trading Commission Three Lafayette Centre 1155 21st St NW Washington D.C. 20581 Dear Chairman Gensler: As you know, President Obama recently released an Executive Order issuing principles and instructions to certain federal agencies and departments for improving regulation and regulatory review to supplement existing Executive Order 12866. However, as an independent federal agency, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) is exempt from the order. As a principal implementing agency of an unprecedented number of new regulations required under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), I am writing to strongly recommend that you voluntarily submit your agency to adhere to the order. The principles and guidance in the order are straightforward: regulators should evaluate costs and benefits before issuing regulations, foster open debate and dialogue about pending rules, and among other things, minimize the burden new regulations impose upon businesses. Simply put, it acknowledges that agencies can achieve regulatory objectives without encumbering our economy and our nation’s job creators – large and small – with unnecessary or misguided regulation. Adhering to the President’s order would respond to legitimate and growing concerns from businesses across the country about the rulemaking process underway at the CFTC. Title VII has the potential to impact every segment of the economy – from financial firms to farmers, manufacturers to health care companies, technology firms to real estate developers. The wide ranging impact Title VII will have on the economy alone warrants a commitment to uphold the same standard of review that the President has set for other federal agencies. In addition, the speed with which the CFTC is issuing rules1 raises several concerns about the capacity of both the CFTC and stakeholders to adequately analyze costs and benefits and identify implications of the rules. For example, in a comment letter recently filed with the CFTC, the Working Group of Commercial Energy Firms highlights the substantial underestimation of costs by the Commission when performing cost-benefit analyses.2 The Working Group’s calculation of the man-hours necessary to comply with the Commission’s rule regarding duties of Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants was 63 times greater than that of the Commission’s. Further, by prioritizing speed over deliberation in writing rules, the CFTC has created an irrational sequence of rule proposals that prevents stakeholders and the public from providing meaningful comments after rules are proposed. Because so many of the rule proposals hinge upon components of other rules and/or categories of rules, how has the Commission had the information necessary to understand the impact of the rules currently being written when all of the rules are implemented comprehensively? For example, in November the Commission proposed rules related to business conduct standards for Major Swap Participants and Swap Dealers.3 However, the rule providing clarification of the types of entities that would be Swap Dealers or Major Swap Participants was not issued until late December.4 How did the Commission staff responsible for drafting the proposed rules for business conduct standards perform an adequate cost-benefit analysis without a clear understanding of the universe of entities to which the rules would apply? How were stakeholders and the public to provide meaningful input? Is the period of time provided for rulemaking under Title VII sufficient to conduct careful and accurate cost benefit analyses and to propose rules in a sequence that supports useful public comment? The CFTC should make a commitment to enhance the CFTC’s practices and methodologies for analyzing and calculating a cost benefit analysis of the regulations, consistent with the principles in Section 1(b) of the order to “propose or adopt a regulation only upon a reasonable determination that its benefits justify its costs,” and to “tailor...regulations to impose the least burden on society, consistent with obtaining regulatory objectives, taking into account…the costs of cumulative regulations.” I recognize the challenges you face in meeting the responsibilities delegated to you by Dodd-Frank, and appreciate and commend the time and effort you and your staff have put forth. Using the authority you have to comply with the President’s order and slow the process, rationalize the sequence of rules, and improve the quality of cost-benefit analysis will give the public a more meaningful opportunity to provide input, and help to mitigate negative and unintended consequences to our economy. Thank you for your attention to this letter. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Frank D. Lucas K. Michael Conaway 1 http://www.capmktsreg.org/pdfs/2010.12.15_Rulemaking_Timeline_Letter.pdf 2 http://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/ViewComment.aspx?id=26748&SearchText= 3 Implementation of Conflicts of Interest Policies and Procedures by Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants, 75 Federal Register 71391, (Nov. 23, 2010). 4 Further Definition of Swap Dealer, Security-Based Swap Dealer, Major Swap Participant, Major Security-Based Swap Participant, and Eligible Contract Participant, 75 Federal Register 80174 (Dec. 21, 2010).
01.25.2011	“The number one priority for this Congress, as well as for the American people, is cutting spending to stimulate job creation. While I applaud the President’s call for a ban on earmarks and a five-year budget freeze on non-security discretionary spending, it is still not enough to hold spending at current rates and get our country back on the road to financial responsibility. “Actions speak louder than words. The time is now to make good on the fiscal promises that the President made tonight, and I look forward to seeing his plan be put into action. It isn’t what he says tonight, but what he does tomorrow that will matters for the future of our country.” share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Tonight, President Obama delivered his third State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. Following the address to the nation, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement: “The number one priority for this Congress, as well as for the American people, is cutting spending to stimulate job creation. While I applaud the President’s call for a ban on earmarks and a five-year budget freeze on non-security discretionary spending, it is still not enough to hold spending at current rates and get our country back on the road to financial responsibility. “Actions speak louder than words. The time is now to make good on the fiscal promises that the President made tonight, and I look forward to seeing his plan be put into action. It isn’t what he says tonight, but what he does tomorrow that will matters for the future of our country.”
01.19.2011	"Today is a good day for the future of America. Today we took a step toward improved, budget-conscious, job-creating health care. The days of hidden costs packed in massive bills are over, and so it is fitting that the new House of Representatives begins with a full repeal of the Democrats’ costly healthcare law." share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass a repeal of the budget-busting health care legislation that President Obama signed into law last year. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after today’s vote on H.R. 2: "Today is a good day for the future of America. Today we took a step toward improved, budget-conscious, job-creating health care. The days of hidden costs packed in massive bills are over, and so it is fitting that the new House of Representatives begins with a full repeal of the Democrats’ costly healthcare law. "Obamacare was built on a mound of false promises. An effective health care reform will allow people to keep their insurance if they are happy with it, healthcare premiums will go down, employers will be able to offer health plans of their choice, and seniors will see Medicare reform. In addition, it will help with job creation, be cost-effective, and not create untenable mandates on individuals and employers. It should allow for valuable innovation and assist with the development of improvements in modern medicine. And most importantly, health care should be more affordable. All of these are essential features of an effective health care reform bill, and none of these were found in the Democrats’ bill. "I applaud my colleagues for voting to save American jobs, keep taxes in check, and not adding $2.6 trillion to the already bloated national deficit. Health care reform should be approached deliberately and with care and compassion. Now we have the opportunity to begin the process of health care reform with bipartisan support.”
01.08.2011	"I am deeply saddened by the tragic event that took place today in Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords home district. Suzanne and my thoughts and prayers are with her and her family, those injured, and the families of those who lost their lives in this horrific incident. It is my hope that the people of District 11 will join Suzanne and me in praying for the victims of this hateful crime, and keep the community of Tucson in their thoughts during this difficult time." share: f t Following today's tragic shooting that took place in Tucson, Arizona, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: "I am deeply saddened by the tragic event that took place today in Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords home district. Suzanne and my thoughts and prayers are with her and her family, those injured, and the families of those who lost their lives in this horrific incident. It is my hope that the people of District 11 will join Suzanne and me in praying for the victims of this hateful crime, and keep the community of Tucson in their thoughts during this difficult time."
12.22.2010	Today, the House Office of Majority Transition released the new House rules for the 112th Congress. Included in the rules is Rep. Mike Conaway’s (TX-11) language to ‘Cut-as-you-go’, previously introduced as the ‘No New Programs’ legislation, which requires cutting spending in existing programs for any increases in mandatory programs of equal or greater cost. share: f t Today, the House Office of Majority Transition released the new House rules for the 112th Congress. Included in the rules is Rep. Mike Conaway’s (TX-11) language to ‘Cut-as-you-go’, previously introduced as the ‘No New Programs’ legislation, which requires cutting spending in existing programs for any increases in mandatory programs of equal or greater cost. "After six years of pushing for this commonsense legislation, I am thrilled that the new Republican Leadership has included the ‘Cut-as-you-go’ language in the House rules for the 112 th Congress,” said Conaway. “Congress should refrain from passing any legislation that would create new Federal programs without providing for direct dollar-for-dollar and program-for-program offsets. Increasing the size of government with new Federal programs will defeat any effort by Congress to reduce Federal spending.” The ‘Cut-as-you-go’ language states that tax increases cannot be used to pay for new mandatory spending. This rule will, in practice, replace the Democrats’ “pay-go” rule. Conaway went on to say, “Setting priorities for Federal spending is extremely difficult and not always popular, but representatives were elected to make tough decisions.” Rep. Conaway currently serves on the House Majority Transition Team for the 112th Congress. ###
12.21.2010	Today, Congressman Frank Lucas (R-OK), Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture for the 112th Congress, named Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) Chairman of the esteemed Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. "Rep. Conaway is a strong leader and I’m pleased to have him chair the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management. I look forward to working with him in this new leadership role on behalf of America’s farmers and ranchers," said Chairman-elect Frank Lucas of Oklahoma. The General Farm Commodities and Risk Management Subcommittee oversees programs and markets related to cotton, cottonseed, wheat, feed grains, soybeans, oilseeds, rice, dry beans, peas, lentils, specialty crops (sugar, peanuts), the Commodity Credit Corporation, and risk management including crop insurance and commodity exchanges. “I am humbled that Chairman-elect Lucas has entrusted me with the job of Chairman of such an important subcommittee,” said Conaway. “I am greatly looking forward to tackling the job of overseeing commodities and providing protection to ensure that all of America’s farmers and ranchers are well-represented.” ###
12.17.2010	“I am delighted that my Republican colleagues did not back down, and were able to block this $1.1 trillion spending bill from coming to the floor for a vote. Not only did this bad legislation contain thousands of earmarks, it was also set to increase federal government spending by $18 billion over last year’s spending levels. “It is heartening that a modicum of sanity returned to Washington, D.C. just in time to avoid passing legislation that the American people clearly said on November 2 that they did not want. It is time for the current Congress to adjourn and make way for the next Congress to make the people’s agenda priority one.” share: f t Last night, after Senate Republicans demanded to read aloud the pork-laden, 2,000 page omnibus bill on the Senate floor, Majority Leader Harry Reid made the decision to pull the bill and let it die. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) is opposed to the measure, and released the following statement: “I am delighted that my Republican colleagues did not back down, and were able to block this $1.1 trillion spending bill from coming to the floor for a vote. Not only did this bad legislation contain thousands of earmarks, it was also set to increase federal government spending by $18 billion over last year’s spending levels. “It is heartening that a modicum of sanity returned to Washington, D.C. just in time to avoid passing legislation that the American people clearly said on November 2 that they did not want. It is time for the current Congress to adjourn and make way for the next Congress to make the people’s agenda priority one.” ###
12.15.2010	“I am outraged by this bloated, pork-laden, 2,000 page spending bill. Not only does this bill contain thousands of earmarks, it also increases federal government spending by $18 billion over last year’s spending levels. Members who support this ‘ominous omnibus’ must have just emerged from a time warp and missed the elections on November 2nd, as they have not taken into account the words and actions that the American people made loud and clear. Congress must not continue this out-of-control spending spree, and it is high time we listen to the American people and make essential cuts.” share: f t Today, the Senate is expected to consider a $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill, which contains more than 6,000 earmarks and increases spending by $18 billion over last year. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) is opposed to the measure, and released the following statement: “I am outraged by this bloated, pork-laden, 2,000 page spending bill. Not only does this bill contain thousands of earmarks, it also increases federal government spending by $18 billion over last year’s spending levels. Members who support this ‘ominous omnibus’ must have just emerged from a time warp and missed the elections on November 2nd, as they have not taken into account the words and actions that the American people made loud and clear. Congress must not continue this out-of-control spending spree, and it is high time we listen to the American people and make essential cuts.” In addition to thousands of earmarks, the omnibus bill also contains more than $1 billion to implement the sweeping healthcare reform bill Congress passed in March.
12.13.2010	“The ruling by Virginia District Judge Henry Hudson today, which declared the individual mandate in President Obama’s job-killing healthcare bill, is a victory for all hard-working Americans. The ruling found that Congress does not have the authority to impose the mandate, which is set to force every American to purchase government approved health insurance." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement after a federal judge in Virginia ruled that the individual mandate, the heart and soul of President Obama’s health care law, is unconstitutional: “The ruling by Virginia District Judge Henry Hudson today, which declared the individual mandate in President Obama’s job-killing healthcare bill, is a victory for all hard-working Americans. The ruling found that Congress does not have the authority to impose the mandate, which is set to force every American to purchase government approved health insurance. “I believe that Americans want choices in healthcare. A universal, national healthcare plan will not be able to offer the choices and services that so many Americans have become accustomed to. I am heartened by this judge’s wise ruling that holds the mandate unconstitutional, and that it supports the voices of all those who opposed this legislation.” The case, brought by Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli, is expected to go to the Supreme Court.
11.29.2010	On Tuesday, November 30, 2010, Congressman Mike Conaway will co-host an event to inform Veterans, Soldiers, and beneficiaries of the process for applying for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay, which has a deadline of December 3, 2010. share: f t Midland, TX - On Tuesday, November 30, 2010, Congressman Mike Conaway will co-host an event to inform Veterans, Soldiers, and beneficiaries of the process for applying for Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay, which has a deadline of December 3, 2010. In October of 2009, the Army began providing Retroactive Stop Loss Special Pay to Soldiers for each month their service was extended as a result of the Army's stop loss policy. Additionally, the Midland County Young Lawyers Association (TYLA) will be on hand to provide free brief legal advice in these areas: Bankruptcy • Consumer Issues/Contracts • Child Support and Custody • Divorce • Employment Foreclosure • Housing • Immigration • Landlord/Tenant • Probate and Guardianship • Real Estate Social Security/SSI • Tax • Veterans’ Benefits/Issues • Will and Estate Planning “The main goal of this event is to make Soldiers, Veterans, and beneficiaries aware that the stop-loss money is there for them, as well as to offer legal advice regarding issues facing our Veterans,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “So far, only a little over half of those eligible have claimed their stop loss pay. We just want to inform our military personnel and families and make the process a little easier for them.” Those who are unable to attend the event, may call 877-736-5554, or visit the Army website at www.stoplosspay.army.mil. Date: Tuesday, November 30, 2010 Time: 9:00 a.m. – 3:00 p.m. Occasion: Veterans, Soldiers, and Beneficiaries Stop-Loss Payment Information Fair Place: Federal Building (adjacent to downtown Post Office)
11.08.2010	Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) was named today to serve on the GOP Majority Transition Team. This 22-member team will work to ensure a seamless transition to a new Republican majority in the 112th Congress so that the House can get to work immediately in January to address the priorities of the American people. The team has been charged with implementing the reforms to Congress in the Pledge to America and looking for additional ways to reform Congress so that it is more transparent, cost-effective, and accountable to the people. share: f t Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) was named today to serve on the GOP Majority Transition Team. This 22-member team will work to ensure a seamless transition to a new Republican majority in the 112th Congress so that the House can get to work immediately in January to address the priorities of the American people. The team has been charged with implementing the reforms to Congress in the Pledge to America and looking for additional ways to reform Congress so that it is more transparent, cost-effective, and accountable to the people. “Americans have had their voices ignored in Washington for far too long,” said Conaway. “Last week, they sent a clear message to Washington that things must change. With the new Majority, we have a chance to re-establish the House of Representatives as an institution that respects the will of the people and restores debate, transparency, and credibility to the House of Representatives. Republicans have pledged to run the House differently than it has been run by both Democrats and Republicans in the past. The groundwork for these changes will be laid by this team, and I am honored to have an opportunity to be a part of this historic transition.” NOTE: The Republican Pledge to America sets forth a plan to reform Congress and, in doing so, begin restoring the public trust. These reforms include: • A requirement that legislation be available online for 3 days before a vote so that members of Congress and the American people can read the bill. • A requirement that all bills include a citation of constitutional authority so that Congress respects the limits imposed on it by our founding document. • Changes to House rules to make it harder to increase spending and easier to cut it so that we begin a new era of fiscal responsibility in Washington. • An end to the practice of passing "comprehensive" or "omnibus" bills that package unrelated legislation together in an effort to avoid public scrutiny. “You would be hard pressed to find a member of Congress who has spoken out more passionately about the way this Congress has let down the American people than Mike Conaway,” said Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Chairman of the GOP Office of Majority Transition. “He understands that Congress should work to advance the will of the people, not stifle it. And his experience as a CPA will be remarkably valuable as we work to make the House more cost-effective and efficient. Mike will be an important member of this team and I’m grateful to him for serving.” Republican Leader Boehner has also pledged to end the days of bills being written in the Speaker’s Office behind closed doors, and instead vowed to move bill-writing authority back to committees, which would be required to post amendments and votes online to ensure full transparency. ###
10.23.2010	I encourage everyone in the area to come out and visit with me about the different legislative issues that are effecting our nation. Please check back, as more events may be added. Thanks. share: f t Wednesday, October 27, 2010 Menard Townhall Meeting 3:00-3:45 pm CST Menard Public Library 105 E. Mission Menard, TX Friday, October 29, 2010 Eden Townhall Meeting 10:00-10:45 am CST Multipurpose Center 319 East Blanchard St. Eden, TX Coleman Townhall Meeting 1:45-2:30 pm CST Coleman Public Library 402 Commercial Ave. Coleman, TX Saturday, October 30, 2010 Lampasas Townhall 10:00-11:30 am CST Lampasas County Courthouse - 2nd Floor - District Courtroom Lampasas, TX Mason Townhall and 100th Anniversary 2:00-3:00 pm CST Mason County Courthouse - North Side Mason, TX *In case of bad weather, even will be moved to 2nd floor courtroom
09.30.2010	Late last night, the U.S. House of Representatives adjourned until November 15th, leaving town a week early, with much work left undone. Congressman Mike Conaway joined Republicans in protesting adjournment until Congress addressed tax increases set to go into effect on January 1, 2011. The motion to adjourn passed 210-209, with Speaker Nancy Pelosi casting a rare tie-breaking vote. share: f t Washington, D.C. – Late last night, the U.S. House of Representatives adjourned until November 15th, leaving town a week early, with much work left undone. Congressman Mike Conaway joined Republicans in protesting adjournment until Congress addressed tax increases set to go into effect on January 1, 2011. The motion to adjourn passed 210-209, with Speaker Nancy Pelosi casting a rare tie-breaking vote. Conway made the following statement regarding the Democrats’ decision to leave town with an unfinished agenda: “I am highly disappointed with the level of irresponsibility in the Democrat leadership’s decision to adjourn for the Fall with so much left to be done. Because the Democrats refused to address the tax hikes taking effect in January, small businesses will suffer, jobs will be lost, and American families will be hit hard once again by massive tax hikes. The tax increases include restoring the marriage penalty, cutting the child tax credit and resurrecting the death tax. “The Republican plan, a Pledge to America, offered a specific plan to help create jobs, which includes stopping all the tax hikes. This is an agenda that could have been voted on this week if the Speaker would have allowed it.” The Tax Foundation estimated that the median family of four saved about $2,200 in federal taxes each year that the Bush Tax Cuts were in place. Much of this savings will vanish if these tax provisions are allowed to expire.
09.23.2010	Today, House Republicans unveiled a new governing agenda for the 111th Congress at Tart Lumber Company, a family-owned small business in Sterling, Virginia. The agenda includes specific plans on job creation, spending cuts, congressional reform and other priorities that were built through a process of listening to the American people through the America Speaking Out initiative. share: f t Today, House Republicans unveiled a new governing agenda for the 111th Congress at Tart Lumber Company, a family-owned small business in Sterling, Virginia. The agenda includes specific plans on job creation, spending cuts, congressional reform and other priorities that were built through a process of listening to the American people through the America Speaking Out initiative. To view the full agenda, click here.
09.14.2010	Members of the Texas Republican Congressional delegation today introduced legislation to repeal language in last month’s education funding bill that discriminates against only the state of Texas, and could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of the federal education funding. share: f t Members of the Texas Republican Congressional delegation today introduced legislation to repeal language in last month’s education funding bill that discriminates against only the state of Texas, and could prevent Texas from receiving its fair share of the federal education funding. The legislation calls to strike the paragraph, which was written and inserted by Texas Congressman Lloyd Doggett (D-Austin), that calls for Texas to make additional requirements beyond what all other states are required to make in order to qualify for the funding. These additional requirements are not only inequitable, but according to Texas officials, would require the state to make assurances that violate the Texas Constitution. Further, requiring only Texas to meet additional requirements under the section titled “Additional Requirements For The State Of Texas” that no other states are required to make puts Texas schoolchildren at an unfair advantage. On August 6, 2010, all 22 Republican members of the Texas Congressional delegation, including Sens. Kay Bailey Hutchison and John Cornyn, wrote to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to strike the Doggett language. The lawmakers wrote, “…this amendment singles out only the State of Texas…and no other state in the nation is subject to these additional requirements…the House language only punishes Texas students and teachers.” Unfortunately the language was not stripped, and consequently, on September 9, 2010, Texas’ application for the $830 million in education funding was denied by the U.S. Department of Education. Texas Republicans joining Rep. Mike Conaway in introducing the legislation are: Congressman Joe Barton Congressman Kevin Brady Congressman John Carter Congressman Michael Burgess Congressman John Culberson Congressman Louie Gohmert Congresswoman Kay Granger Congressman Ralph Hall Congressman Jeb Hensarling Congressman Michael McCaul Congressman Randy Neugebauer Congressman Pete Olson Congressman Ron Paul Congressman Ted Poe Congressman Pete Sessions Congressman Lamar Smith Congressman Mac Thornberry Senators Hutchison and Cornyn introduced the Senate version to repeal Doggett’s language, S. 3768, yesterday in the Senate. ###
08.10.2010	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives convened back in Washington during the August district work period to vote on H.R 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. As passed by the Senate, H.R. 1586 demands that the State of Texas maintains a specific level of State support for elementary and secondary education and higher education spending in order to receive any of the $10 billion in education funds under the bill. It also requires the Governor to “provide assurances to the Secretary” that the Texas Legislature will maintain that support not just for 2011, but also for 2012 and 2013. This language singles out Texas, violates the State’s constitution, and puts future State budgets in an indefensible position. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives convened back in Washington during the August district work period to vote on H.R 1586, the Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act. As passed by the Senate, H.R. 1586 demands that the State of Texas maintains a specific level of State support for elementary and secondary education and higher education spending in order to receive any of the $10 billion in education funds under the bill. It also requires the Governor to “provide assurances to the Secretary” that the Texas Legislature will maintain that support not just for 2011, but also for 2012 and 2013. This language singles out Texas, violates the State’s constitution, and puts future State budgets in an indefensible position. “This bill makes a mockery of the 10th Amendment, and tramples on the Texas Constitution,” said Conaway. “On behalf of the people of District 11, and Americans across the country, I stand with my Republican colleagues in vehemently opposing this flawed legislation that seeks to implement failed Democratic policies of bailouts and higher taxes. No Texas Legislature can appropriate money on behalf of future Legislatures. Moreover, the Governor of Texas cannot offer the Secretary any reasonable assurance that a future Texas legislature will appropriate money according to this language, because he does not possess the authority under the Texas Constitution to promise to anyone that the Texas Legislature will do anything. As such, this legislation will put the State of Texas in an impossible conundrum. To qualify for the same money that every other state will be receiving, Texas would be forced to violate its own rules and Constitution. Thus, it will be impossible for the State of Texas to comply with the guidelines meaning that this language will effectively shut Texas out of any money appropriated under the legislation. Conaway went on to say “It is dangerous to set the precedent for any state to be treated differently under the law, but I believe it is a willful abandonment of my duty to support a bill that would turn Texans into second class Americans, encumbered with more burdens from the Federal government than their equals from across our nation. I hope my Texas Democratic colleagues will join me in opposing what constitutes the trampling of the Texas Constitution and telling Texans how to educate Texas school children if this language is not stripped from the bill.”
07.28.2010	Last week, The Washington Post unveiled its, “Top Secret America” series, detailing the billions of dollars in private, commercial intelligence operations that have formed since September 11, 2001, which the Post calls our "fourth branch" of government. The recent series of Washington Post articles investigating the US Intelligence Community has highlighted a critical issue facing our nation. Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) sent a letter urging Vivek Kundra, the Chief Information Officer of the Office of Management and Budget to help the Intelligence Community receive a clean financial audit on the annually appropriated National Intelligence Program funding. share: f t Last week, The Washington Post unveiled its, “Top Secret America” series, detailing the billions of dollars in private, commercial intelligence operations that have formed since September 11, 2001, which the Post calls our "fourth branch" of government. The recent series of Washington Post articles investigating the US Intelligence Community has highlighted a critical issue facing our nation. Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) sent a letter urging Vivek Kundra, the Chief Information Officer of the Office of Management and Budget to help the Intelligence Community receive a clean financial audit on the annually appropriated National Intelligence Program funding. “The Intelligence Community, which has grown substantially in size and budget since 9-11, is currently unable to satisfactorily account for the tax dollars, which it is given to protect the very individuals that provide that money,” said Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11). “As a member of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, I fully understand the need for secrecy, and the critical mission that the Intelligence Community performs. However, as a certified public accountant and a Congressman, I also understand the need for accountability and the government’s obligation to be good stewards of the taxpayers money with which we are entrusted. Absolutely no one is exempt from that responsibility. We must not forget that all government employees are public servants and that no mission is an excuse for a complete lack of accountability. “I will continue to work with my fellow Congressmen and the Intelligence Community to achieve much needed reforms of the financial management of the Intelligence Community so that it can be audited in a way that will reduce waste while maintaining its secrecy and most importantly continuing to keep America safe.” *A copy of the letter sent to Mr. Kundra at the Office of Management and Budget is attached.* ###
07.14.2010	“This is yet another broken promise by the Obama Administration. After repeatedly saying that the President’s Executive Order would prevent the use of taxpayer-funded abortions, it is clear that was just another tactic to pass their government takeover of our nation’s health care system.” share: f t Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) issued the following statement in response to reports that surfaced today that the Obama Administration spent $160 million in taxpayer money for an ObamaCare insurance program that will include coverage for abortions: “This is yet another broken promise by the Obama Administration. After repeatedly saying that the President’s Executive Order would prevent the use of taxpayer-funded abortions, it is clear that was just another tactic to pass their government takeover of our nation’s health care system.” “This fight is far from over. We must repeal ObamaCare and uphold the sanctity of life. Republicans will not be silenced, and will keep fighting for the American people against big government here in Washington.” ###
07.02.2010	“Today’s announcement is yet another disappointment to every small business in District 11 and every family across the country who struggle to keep their business afloat and keep food on the table. President Obama continues to say that our economy is ‘getting stronger by the day’; however the American people are getting tired of the rhetoric and want to start seeing actual numbers. For the past year, hard-working taxpayers have been asking the President and the Democrat Leadership, “Where are the Jobs?” They have had enough. It is time to stop the spending and start working on a fiscally conservative, commonsense plan to lower the deficit and get Americans back to work.” share: f t Washington, D.C. - Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released their June Employment Report showing that 125,000 jobs were lost in the month of June. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued this statement following the announcement: “Today’s announcement is yet another disappointment to every small business in District 11 and every family across the country who struggle to keep their business afloat and keep food on the table. President Obama continues to say that our economy is ‘getting stronger by the day’; however the American people are getting tired of the rhetoric and want to start seeing actual numbers. For the past year, hard-working taxpayers have been asking the President and the Democrat Leadership, “Where are the Jobs?” They have had enough. It is time to stop the spending and start working on a fiscally conservative, commonsense plan to lower the deficit and get Americans back to work.” ###
06.29.2010	Austin—The Texas chapter of the free market grassroots group Americans for Prosperity (AFP-TX) today applauded U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (11th District) for signing the group’s “No Climate Tax Pledge.” Conaway joins more than 600 lawmakers and candidates across the country on the federal, state and local levels are pledging to “oppose any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue.” share: f t Austin—The Texas chapter of the free market grassroots group Americans for Prosperity (AFP-TX) today applauded U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (11th District) for signing the group’s “No Climate Tax Pledge.” Conaway joins more than 600 lawmakers and candidates across the country on the federal, state and local levels are pledging to “oppose any legislation relating to climate change that includes a net increase in government revenue.” “The one thing elected officials should all be able to agree on is that global warming shouldn’t be used as an excuse to hike taxes on citizens and businesses,” said AFP-TX State Director Peggy Venable. “We encourage all of Texas’s elected officials and candidates for elected office to sign.” Texas signers include: Governor Rich Perry; U.S. Representatives Ralph Hall, Joe Barton, Kay Granger, Ron Paul, Lamar Smith, Pete Olson, Kenny Marchant, Pete Sessions and John Carter; Railroad Commission Chairman Michael Williams; as well as numerous state lawmakers and candidates. Cap-and-trade took its first step toward enactment last year when the U.S. House narrowly passed the Waxman-Markey energy tax bill, which escaped the lower chamber by a scant seven votes despite significant bipartisan opposition. The Senate has struggled to pass companion legislation, with key Democratic senators openly expressing opposition to attempting to pass the energy tax bill. President Obama has made no secret of his support for the bill, which would be the largest tax increase in American history. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has scored the House plan as an $846 billion increase in federal revenue, a burden that will be borne by taxpayers and consumers for decades to come. “Using the guise of climate change to transfer dollars from hard-working citizens to bureaucratic big government is unacceptable,” said Venable. “Regardless of their stance on global warming, this should be common ground for all of our elected officials at all levels of government.” The pledge is available online at www.NoClimateTax.com. AFP does not endorse candidates. All elected officials and candidates are encouraged to sign the pledge and go on the record in opposition to using the climate change issue to increase taxes and grow the size of government. Americans for Prosperity® (AFP) is a nationwide organization of citizen leaders committed to advancing every individual's right to economic freedom and opportunity. AFP believes reducing the size and scope of government is the best safeguard to ensuring individual productivity and prosperity for all Americans. AFP educates and engages citizens in support of restraining state and federal government growth, and returning government to its constitutional limits. AFP has more than one million members, including members in all 50 states, and 25 state chapters. More than 60,000 Americans in all 50 states have made a financial investment in AFP or AFP Foundation. For more information, visit http://www.americansforprosperity.org/ ###
06.12.2010	Thank you for reading The Conaway Chronicle, a review of my activities in Congress. This newsletter is to let you know what’s going on in Washington and what important issues are being debated in Congress. Last week, I held eleven town hall meetings across West and Central Texas, where I listened to and took note of ideas and concerns of the people of District 11. House Republicans across the nation are hosting similar meetings to help launch a new and revolutionary initiative: America Speaking Out. In person and online, we want to hear your ideas that will lead our country in a new direction, and get it back on the right path. We will incorporate many of these ideas into a new, responsive and responsible governing agenda that all Americans can support. It has become increasingly clear that Democrats and Washington bureaucrats do not have the will or want to seek out and apply common sense solutions to the many problems that face our country. share: f t Thank you for reading The Conaway Chronicle, a review of my activities in Congress. This newsletter is to let you know what’s going on in Washington and what important issues are being debated in Congress. Last week, I held eleven town hall meetings across West and Central Texas, where I listened to and took note of ideas and concerns of the people of District 11. House Republicans across the nation are hosting similar meetings to help launch a new and revolutionary initiative: America Speaking Out. In person and online, we want to hear your ideas that will lead our country in a new direction, and get it back on the right path. We will incorporate many of these ideas into a new, responsive and responsible governing agenda that all Americans can support. It has become increasingly clear that Democrats and Washington bureaucrats do not have the will or want to seek out and apply common sense solutions to the many problems that face our country. The most pressing issue acknowledged by my constituents is the economy, and the reckless fiscal policies of the Democrats in Congress and the Obama administration. From Big Lake to Colorado City to Comanche, those in attendance told me that, in order for their families and small businesses to prosper and survive, they must live within their means. It should be no different for their government. In each community, participants voiced their concerns over increases in what they already considered to be out-of-control spending. Though our deficits continue to skyrocket, no one suggested that a greater tax burden placed upon people or businesses would align our stars. Most, if not all, suggested that we must reduce spending. A gentleman in San Saba suggested that we should not follow the European spending model, let alone send them bailout money. Without cuts in the overall deficit we could face an equally grim scenario. However, the United States does not have to walk the same path. We are a strong nation, with a capable citizenry, that can and should hand a greater nation to our children than the one we inherited. I have spoken to many people, including farmers in Miles, Robert Lee and elsewhere, who do not want to see the estate tax reinstituted. Family farmers worry that the taxes assessed, when loved ones pass, might not allow their families to continue farming on the land that they have spent years, or even generations, cultivating. In these cases, land is not just property; it is the land that puts food on the table and a roof over the heads of their families. It runs deep in their veins and it is part of their heritage. A resident in Bronte recommended that tort reform could lower health care costs. Most cost cutting measures were ignored by the governing party while the health care debate was raging. Whether in Sterling City or Winters, a majority of my constituents would like health care reform, but not the kind forced upon them by the Democrats. A majority of those attending these town halls want us to scrap the bill passed this spring, to replace it with real common sense reforms. Much like health care, energy costs worry Americans. The voters of District 11 know that if the Democrats pass Cap-and-Trade, then energy costs will increase. We must be good stewards of the Earth’s resources. However, passing legislation that forces higher energy costs on America’s businesses and families with no measureable results is not the answer. A woman from Mertzon would like a more competent process by which rural communities are fully accounted for in the census. The accuracy of those numbers can be vitally important to small communities. Another from Bronte would like more to be done to extend broadband coverage to her community, and those like hers. I agree, as broadband has the potential to generate American jobs in rural America - not overseas. Also, I was pleased to hear one individual from Ballinger express concern towards acquisition process within our Department of Defense. This is an issue that I am very passionate about. Currently, there is no way to verify that all funds allocated are spent well. We want to ensure money is being spent to strengthen, arm and protect our armed forces. All of these examples are just some of the ideas that have been offered by Texans from different regions, counties and communities within District 11. However, Republicans want to hear more ideas from Americans all across the country. I strongly encourage everyone to go to www.AmericaSpeakingOut.com and make your voices heard.
06.04.2010	Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released their May Employment Report. While there were 431,000 new jobs reported in the month of May, 412,000 of those jobs went to temporary government census workers. share: f t Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics released their May Employment Report. While there were 431,000 new jobs reported in the month of May, 412,000 of those jobs went to temporary government census workers. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made this statement following the announcement: “At first look, this month’s job report appeared to be positive news. However, 96 percent of last month’s job growth will be eliminated in a mere few weeks when the census is complete. President Obama’s prediction that we would see strong job growth did not develop, and as long as he continues to pass job-killing legislation such as the health care overhaul, the Wall Street bailout, and a national energy tax, we are going to see nothing but jobs flat line. Today’s misleading numbers prove that the Democrats economic policies are not working, and it is my hope that we can work together in a bipartisan manner toward a fiscally conservative, common sense plan to lower the deficit and get Americans back to work."
06.03.2010	“I am saddened by the deaths and injuries that occurred during the May 31st incident off the coast of Israel. The great tragedy is that this all could have been avoided. At its most basic, this incident is about the right of a sovereign nation to defend its people from a terrorist threat. I stand squarely behind the people of Israel as they work to protect their fellow citizens from rocket attacks and to protect Gazans from the violence propagated by the well-armed thugs running Hamas." share: f t Last week, the Israeli Navy stopped and boarded a group of boats bound for Gaza in violation of the blockade enforced to prevent Hamas from obtaining arms and munitions. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement regarding this incident: “I am saddened by the deaths and injuries that occurred during the May 31st incident off the coast of Israel. The great tragedy is that this all could have been avoided. “At its most basic, this incident is about the right of a sovereign nation to defend its people from a terrorist threat. I stand squarely behind the people of Israel as they work to protect their fellow citizens from rocket attacks and to protect Gazans from the violence propagated by the well-armed thugs running Hamas. “The activists who planned this flotilla admitted that they were not concerned with delivering humanitarian supplies, but were actively seeking confrontation with the Israeli military. They were given ample opportunity to redirect their course or otherwise comply with Israel’s security requirements, including an offer by Israel to deliver the humanitarian supplies over land, though long established procedures. “A massive amount of arms and munitions are smuggled into Gaza over land and sea for use by Hamas in terror attacks on Israeli civilians. These continual attacks have forced Israel to regulate trade with Gaza to protect the lives of innocent people on both sides. By willfully ignoring the security situation in Gaza and the directives of the Israeli military, the organizers of this flotilla unnecessarily put lives at risk. I am saddened that they chose to pursue actions that led to bloodshed.” ###
06.01.2010	Congressman Conaway will be making his way across District 11 during the week of May 31-June 7 for his America Speaking Out district tour. Come out and share your thoughts and concerns with him! share: f t Tuesday, June 1, 2010 Big Lake, TX 9:30-10:15 am CST Chamber of Commerce 120 North Main Ave Mertzon 11:15 am-12:00 pm CST Irion County Courthouse - Commissioner's Court 209 N. Park View Sterling City 2:30-3:15 pm CST Sterling County Courthouse -- Commissioner's Court 609 4th Street Robert Lee 4:15-5:00 pm CST Coke County Courthouse 13th East 7th Street Wednesday, June 2, 2010 Miles Miles Gin 8:00-8:45 am CST County Road 253/Gin Road Ballinger 9:15-10:00 am CST Runnels County Courthouse Winters 10:30-11:15 am CST Rock Hotel Heritage Center Bronte 12:30-1:15 pm CST First National Bank of Sterling City, Bronte Branch Colorado City 2:30-3:15 pm CST Mitchell County Courthouse Thursday, June 3, 2010 Comanche 10:30-11:30 am CST Brennan Vineyards San Saba 2:00-3:00 pm CST San Saba Courthouse (Lawn) 500 E. Wallace
05.28.2010	Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass the Fiscal Year 2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). This legislation has traditionally enjoyed broad bipartisan support and authorizes critical programs and policies that our men and women in uniform need to defend our great nation. An amendment to the NDAA, pushed by Democratic leadership, was adopted that conditionally repealed the current policy regarding homosexuals in military service, commonly known as “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” (DADT). Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement regarding this legislation: “It is unfortunate that Democratic leaders have once again decided to needlessly use our troops as political fodder by including language to satisfy a liberal, social agenda for their own political gain. Due to the inclusion of language which would overturn the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy, I, along with many of my colleagues, was forced to ultimately vote against a bill that I supported in Committee.” The Administration’s initial plan, supported by the President and Secretary of Defense Gates, was to conduct a one year comprehensive review of the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy. This deliberative approach ensured that any policy change was thoroughly analyzed and that the people that would have to live with and implement such a policy had significant input into the decision. The review will seek input from some 350,000 members of the armed forces and their families. Conaway went on to say, “Allowing this review to run its course unabated is absolutely essential to any successful policy change if needed, and therefore, to our national security. For this reason, the chairman and the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, all of the service chiefs, and many others have been adamant that the review be allowed to continue without interference. Unfortunately, the Democratic majority has chosen to once again ignore the advice of our military leaders and alter the initial plan that all sides had agreed to. I cannot in good conscience turn my back on America’s fighting men and women while their much deserved input is ripped away for political gain. I am disappointed by the actions of the Democrats, and was left with no choice but to oppose the passage of the overall legislation.”
05.24.2010	Today, Monday, May 24th at 6:10 p.m. Central, I will be hosting an 'America Speaking Out' Telephone Town Hall meeting. America Speaking Out is an initiative that allows you, as constituents, to give your Member of Congress your input and ideas on the issues you see as most important, having your say in crafting a new overall agenda in Congress. You will also have the opportunity to submit ideas to the America Speaking Out website and engage in conversation with me solely on ideas and issues you see as the most important facing our country. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 and use the passcode 13347. share: f t Today, Monday, May 24th at 6:10 p.m. Central, I will be hosting an 'America Speaking Out' Telephone Town Hall meeting. America Speaking Out is an initiative that allows you, as constituents, to give your Member of Congress your input and ideas on the issues you see as most important, having your say in crafting a new overall agenda in Congress. You will also have the opportunity to submit ideas to the America Speaking Out website and engage in conversation with me solely on ideas and issues you see as the most important facing our country. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 and use the passcode 13347.
05.18.2010	Thank you for reading The Conaway Chronicle, a review of my activities in Congress. This newsletter is to let you know what’s going on in Washington and what important issues are being debated in Congress. share: f t Thank you for reading The Conaway Chronicle, a review of my activities in Congress. This newsletter is to let you know what’s going on in Washington and what important issues are being debated in Congress. 10th Amendment Task Force Last week, I, along with ten other Republican Members of Congress, officially launched the newly formed 10th Amendment Task Force, a project of the Republican Study Committee. The Task Force will develop and promote proposals that aim to disperse power, decision-making, and money from Washington back to states, local governments, and individuals. The Task Force was created in response to the public outcry over the concentration of power and the ‘one-size-fits-all’ solutions from Washington. More than ever, Americans are expressing frustration at having important facets of their lives controlled by a government that is out of reach and out of touch. Among other things, the Task Force will focus on educating Congress and the public about federalism, elevating federalism as a core Republican focus and monitoring threats to 10th Amendment principles. Supporting the 10th Amendment is not a partisan issue. It is about respecting the boundaries placed on the federal government by the U.S. Constitution. It is my hope that through the Tenth Amendment Task Force, Members on both sides of the aisle will be better educated on our founders’ vision for America. House Approves H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act The House passed H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act, which acts as a strong step toward reforming the Department of Defense’s procurement process and saving billions in U.S. taxpayer dollars. The legislation, which passed 417-3, was the result of a year-long study by the committee’s Defense Acquisition Reform Panel and builds upon the reforms enacted last year to the Department of Defense’s weapons systems procurement process. This legislation represents a sustained bipartisan effort to improve the defense acquisition processes. I want to thank my respected colleagues, Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon and Chairman Andrews for their leadership and dedication to this bill and its overarching efforts of facilitating a substantial impact on reducing waste, fraud and abuse. Not only does this bill address the Defense Acquisition System and Workforce, but, if properly implemented, it will play a critical role in assisting the Department of Defense’s improvements upon its financial management practices. We must strengthen the confidence of the American taxpayer that tax dollars are being accounted for and spent wisely in the defense of this great nation. Now Accepting Applications for Service Academies I want to invite area high school seniors interested in attending one of the United States’ military service academies to apply for nominations through my office. The application period for students who will enter college next year ends October 27, 2010. Interested applicants should contact my office as soon as possible. Applications are available through the San Angelo Regional Office (33 East Twohig, Suite 320, San Angelo, Texas 76903). Please contact Joanne Powell for more information at (325) 659-4010. To be considered, applicants must be United States citizens, be residents of the 11th Congressional District of Texas, and be between the ages of 17 and 23 by July 1 of the year of admission. Selection is based on SAT and ACT test scores, class rank, grade point averages, extracurricular activities, leadership potential and motivation. Republican Leadership, Economic Recovery Working Group Launch ‘YouCut’ ‘YouCut’ is a website designed to defeat the permissive culture of runaway spending in Congress. It allows you to vote, both online and on your cell phone, on spending cuts that you want to see the House enact. It allows individuals to vote on their priorities to begin changing Washington's culture of spending into a culture of savings. Through this innovative website, we hope to show House Democrats that hard-working Americans are serious about cutting spending and wasteful programs. Click here and start cutting now!
04.28.2010	This legislation represents a sustained bipartisan effort to improve the defense acquisition processes. I want to thank my respected colleagues, Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon and Chairman Andrews for their leadership and dedication to this bill and its overarching efforts of facilitating a substantial impact on reducing waste, fraud and abuse. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 5013, the IMPROVE Acquisition Act, which acts as a strong step toward reforming the Department of Defense’s procurement process and saving billions in U.S. taxpayer dollars. The legislation, which passed 417-3, was the result of a year-long study by the committee’s Defense Acquisition Reform Panel and builds upon the reforms enacted last year to the Department of Defense’s weapons systems procurement process. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), along with Congressmen Rob Andrews (D-NJ), Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Buck McKeon (R-CA) championed this bipartisan bill, and Congressman Mike Conaway made this statement following the vote: “This legislation represents a sustained bipartisan effort to improve the defense acquisition processes. I want to thank my respected colleagues, Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McKeon and Chairman Andrews for their leadership and dedication to this bill and its overarching efforts of facilitating a substantial impact on reducing waste, fraud and abuse. “Not only does this bill address the Defense Acquisition System and Workforce, but, if properly implemented, it will play a critical role in assisting the Department of Defense’s improvements upon its financial management practices. We must strengthen the confidence of the American taxpayer that tax dollars are being accounted for and spent wisely in the defense of this great nation.”
04.22.2010	“I am very honored to have received this award from the Congressional Management Foundation. It is of extreme importance to me that my constituents are able to find as much information as possible with the click of a mouse,” said Conaway. “My website acts as an information headquarters through the use of multimedia, interactive maps, and regularly updated podcasts and blog entries.” share: f t The Web site of Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) was recognized last night by the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF), for having one of the best Web sites in Congress. CMF analyzed all 620 congressional Web sites, including those of all Senate and House Members, committees (both majority and minority sites), and official leadership sites. Conaway’s site, http://www.conaway.house.gov, was one of only 135 Web sites commended by CMF in its 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project. “I am very honored to have received this award from the Congressional Management Foundation. It is of extreme importance to me that my constituents are able to find as much information as possible with the click of a mouse,” said Conaway. “My website acts as an information headquarters through the use of multimedia, interactive maps, and regularly updated podcasts and blog entries.” Conaway went on to say, “Whether you are looking to visit Washington, D.C., seek help from a federal agency, have a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol, or if you simply want to browse the news and issue pages to stay informed about what Congress is doing in Washington, I guarantee that constituents will be able to find everything they need on our interactive site. I encourage everyone to take advantage of everything my online office has to offer.” The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Awards are part of CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union, which seeks to improve the quality of communication between Members and their constituents. For this project CMF partnered with researchers from the Harvard Kennedy School, Northeastern University, University of California–Riverside, and the Ohio State University to study how Members of Congress can use the Internet to improve communications with their constituents and to promote greater participation in the legislative process. “One of the key reasons for the awards is to highlight best practices so offices can improve their sites by learning from those already excelling in online communications,” said Beverly Bell, CMF’s Executive Director. “Web sites like Congressman Conaway’s serve as a prime example that we hope other congressional offices will follow.” “Congressman Conaway’s Web site shows that he understands how to meet the needs of their district online,” said Bell. “The Congressional Management Foundation congratulates Congressman Conaway for having a Web site that is among the best on Capitol Hill, and we are pleased to present him with the 111th Congress Silver Mouse Award.” “The 111th Congress report shows that Web sites continue to be a critical channel through which Members and congressional committees can communicate with, and hear from, citizens. The Internet is a vital tool for elected officials and the public to use in the give-and-take of ideas and opinions that has characterized the American form of government since its founding” Bell said. Web sites were graded on how well they incorporate five core principles that CMF identified through extensive research as critical for effectiveness: know your audience, provide timely and targeted content that meets their needs, make the site easy to use, foster interaction both on and offline, and add value through innovation. Using these core principles, an evaluation framework was developed by CMF and their research partners, which would be fair and objective while still taking into account important qualitative factors that affect a visitor's experience on a Web site. The 111th Congress Gold Mouse Project report, a full listing winners, and other comparative data is available on CMF’s Partnership For A More Perfect Union Web site at www.pmpu.org. ###
04.21.2010	“Agriculture policy, consisting of farm safety net funding, represents less than one quarter of one percent of the total Federal budget, and less than 17% of the total USDA budget. To propose massive cuts to programs of vital importance to our producers, such as crop insurance, under the guise of fiscal responsibility is misleading at best. Currently, roughly three-quarters of USDA’s budget expenditures involve nutrition program funding, yet reform and potential savings in this realm have gone largely, if not completely, unmentioned to date." share: f t Today, the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture, Tom Vilsack testified before the House Committee on Agriculture to review policy in advance of the 2012 Farm Bill. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made these comments following the hearing: “Agriculture policy, consisting of farm safety net funding, represents less than one quarter of one percent of the total Federal budget, and less than 17% of the total USDA budget. To propose massive cuts to programs of vital importance to our producers, such as crop insurance, under the guise of fiscal responsibility is misleading at best. Currently, roughly three-quarters of USDA’s budget expenditures involve nutrition program funding, yet reform and potential savings in this realm have gone largely, if not completely, unmentioned to date. “Moving forward it is my hope that Secretary Vilsack and the Administration will reconsider a continued advocacy of proposals that would dismantle the safety net for the American producer and the Federal Government and engage the Committee in a meaningful debate with respect to deficit reduction and farm policy. Continued, efficient farm policies serve not only the interests of the American producer, but the American consumer and taxpayer as well. There is a broad, bipartisan commitment in Congress to affordable food and fiber, and I will continue to work to ensure that those voices, on behalf of the American producer are heard in Washington.” Congressman Conaway has served as a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture since being elected to office in 2004 and is currently the Ranking Republican Member on the Rural Development Subcommittee.
03.21.2010	Tonight, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) released this statement following the House vote on the Democrat-led government takeover of our nation’s health care system: “The American people have spoken loud and clear that they did not want this bill. Yet, that did not stop our President and Speaker Pelosi from jamming it down the throats of the American people tonight, narrowly passing it in the House of Representatives on a strict party line vote of 219-212, with 34 Democrats voting against the bill. This government takeover of our nation’s health care system includes billions of dollars in new taxes and almost a trillion dollars in new government spending. It will force millions of employers to cancel the health care that they currently offer their employees and force them into the government run plan. It will also mandate that private citizens purchase health care, whether they need it or want it. "For months, the American people have been decrying this bad bill. I personally have had thousands of people voice their concerns to me, and I am not alone. Republicans in the House and Senate have been taking their concerns from their home states back to Washington, shouting it on the floor, begging for a clean slate in Committee hearings and in the halls of Congress. Yet, in the name of politics, this is what it has come to. But we will not be silenced. The battle is far from over, and I will continue the fight against big government for West and Central Texans here in Washington.”
02.25.2010	Congressman Mike Conaway today was recognized for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, has announced that Conaway is among only a few dozen 2009 “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” recipients out of the entire House of Representatives and Senate. share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway today was recognized for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, has announced that Conaway is among only a few dozen 2009 “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” recipients out of the entire House of Representatives and Senate. “Given today’s economic climate, fiscal discipline is more important now than ever,” NTU President Duane Parde said. “Fortunately, taxpayers have a staunch ally in Conaway, to whom National Taxpayers Union is proud to present a ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award.’” The award is given to Representatives and Senators who achieve an “A” grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a “Taxpayer Score” to each Member of Congress that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. For 2009, a total of 333 House and 227 Senate votes were selected. “Conaway’s pro-taxpayer score of 93 percent was one of the best in the entire Congress,” Parde continued. “By voting time and again to reduce federal spending, taxes, and debt, Conaway has led by example in the fight to defend overburdened taxpayers across the country.” Between 2008 and 2009, the average “Taxpayer Score” in the House rose slightly from 36 percent to 38 percent. The Senate’s average increased from 32 percent to 39 percent. In 2009, 55 lawmakers attained scores sufficient to win the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” (earning at least 90 percent in the House or Senate). Meanwhile, 267 Senators and Representatives captured the title of “Big Spender” for posting “F” grades (scores of 15 percent or less in the House and 16 percent or less in the Senate). Unlike those of other organizations, NTU’s annual Rating does not simplistically focus on only a handful of equally weighted “key votes.” For this reason, lawmakers on both sides of the aisle have praised NTU’s Rating, including the late Sen. (and “Golden Fleece Award” creator) William Proxmire (D-WI). “If every Member of Congress was as principled as Conaway, current and future generations of Americans could enjoy much lower taxes and a less wasteful government,” Parde concluded. “Hard-working families in the 11th District of Texas and across the nation owe Mike Conaway a debt of gratitude for his effort on their behalf. Mike Conaway has truly earned the title ‘Taxpayers’ Friend.’ NTU is a nonpartisan, nonprofit citizen group founded in 1969 to work for lower taxes, smaller government, and economic freedom at all levels. Note: The 2009 Rating and a searchable Rating database dating back to 1992 is available at www.ntu.org. For questions about the Rating, its history, or methodology, please contact NTU Vice President for Policy and Communications Pete Sepp or NTU Communications Manager Rachael Slobodien at (703) 683-5700. ###
02.12.2010	I will be traveling across the district over the next week and would love for you to come out and see me when I am in your area. share: f t Saturday, Feb. 13th 11:00 am - 12:30 pm Dutch Treat Lunch Zentner's Daughter-Victorian Room 1901 Knickerbocker Rd, San Angelo, TX Tuesday, Feb. 16th 2:00 - 3:00 pm Senior Citizen Building 104 E. Broadway Stanton, TX Wednesday, Feb. 17th 9:15 - 10:15 am Crane Fire Hall 212 West 6th Street Crane, TX 1:45 - 2:30 pm Benoit's 111 E. 3rd Street (Hwy 67) McCamey, TX Thursday, Feb. 18th 9:00 - 10:00 am Multi-Purpose Building 139 Market Street Eden, TX Friday, Feb. 19th 1:00 - 2:00 pm County Court House Commissioners Court Room Lampasas, TX 3:00 - 4:00 pm Burnet County Library Meeting Room 100 E. Washington St. Burnet, TX
02.01.2010	The fact that this announcement comes after the President pledged to get spending under control and reduce the deficit is astounding. Not only do they predict that there will be $5.08 trillion in deficit spending over the next five years, but it is a 35 percent increase over what the administration projected just one year ago. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) issued this statement following the President’s announcement of his FY2011 budget, which calls for $46 trillion in spending over the next decade: “The fact that this announcement comes after the President pledged to get spending under control and reduce the deficit is astounding. Not only do they predict that there will be $5.08 trillion in deficit spending over the next five years, but it is a 35 percent increase over what the administration projected just one year ago. This means that one third of the President’s budget is spent with ‘borrowed’ money, meaning money borrowed from our children and grandchildren. Today’s announcement will do absolutely nothing to create new jobs, reduce the deficit, and discourage new spending, all things that the Presidents claims are priorities of his. I will continue to firmly oppose any forms of new spending in Congress, and hope that President Obama will work with us in helping our economy.” Fact: During the Bush years, from FY2001 until FY08 (8 years), the national deficit was $2.05 trillion. Astoundingly, our national deficit from FY09 through the first quarter of FY10 has already reached $1.8 trillion. Fact: The first quarter of FY2010 spending is larger than all but two other annual deficits in our nation’s history. Fact: The President’s budget will impose tax hikes on U.S. producers of oil and natural gas. These taxes would reduce investment in new U.S. production by 20 to 40 percent, while simultaneously driving down U.S. oil production by 20 percent and natural gas production by 12 percent; potentially killing thousands of jobs. ###
01.29.2010	I appreciate the fact that the President accepted our invitation today, and expressed interest in working together. Unfortunately, the President has not convinced me that he is willing to listen to the American people or work with Republicans to cut spending, reduce the national debt, or back away from his plans for a jobs-killing national energy tax or a government take-over of our health care system. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) is participating in a strategy meeting in Baltimore, where House Republicans are working on conservative solutions to the issues facing our nation. President Obama was invited to speak to House Republicans today and answer some questions. Conaway and his Republican colleagues presented the President with “Better Solutions for America”, a compilation of GOP policy alternatives that have been developed and introduced in the House since January of 2009. “Better Solutions” includes the Republican alternative for healthcare reform, the American Energy Act, the GOP No Cost Jobs plan, and the GOP Budget. All of these initiatives presented by House Republicans were rejected by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the House Democrat Majority. Congressman Conaway made the following statement following the President’s appearance: “I appreciate the fact that the President accepted our invitation today, and expressed interest in working together. Unfortunately, the President has not convinced me that he is willing to listen to the American people or work with Republicans to cut spending, reduce the national debt, or back away from his plans for a jobs-killing national energy tax or a government take-over of our health care system. “It is my firm belief that in order to get our economy back on its feet, we must get spending under control. Excessive federal government spending is the single biggest threat to our way of life in the United States. It is a mess that our generation is leaving for our children and, and that is completely unacceptable. “While I approve of President Obama’s call for a spending freeze, calling for a freeze at the current bloated levels is akin to starting a diet tomorrow. We must pass a Balanced Budget Amendment to force Congress to live within its means just like every American family must do. “President Obama told us today he will focus on jobs and the economy and that he wants to work with Republicans. If this is true, then I call on President Obama to join me in fighting for House Joint Resolution 1: the Balanced Budget Amendment.” Click here to read the GOP “Better Solutions” document.
01.21.2010	“I will continue to vehemently oppose any and all misguided priorities that attempt to place America in a pre-9/11 mindset and clearly put political considerations and the interests of liberal advocacy groups ahead of the safety and security of the American people.” share: f t Washington, D.C.—On the eve of the President’s self-imposed deadline to close the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Ranking Member Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Republicans on the House Armed Services Committee, Republican Leader John Boehner (R-OH), Republican Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA), and the leading Republicans on the Homeland Security, Intelligence, Judiciary, and Foreign Affairs Committees today introduced legislation that would restrict the President’s ability to transfer Guantanamo detainees to countries with ungoverned spaces or active al-Qaeda terrorists or networks. The legislation (H.R. 4490), entitled the Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act of 2010, is in direct response to the high number of detainees who have returned to fight against the United States alongside al-Qaeda and other terrorist networks after being released from Guantanamo. The inherent danger of releasing detainees to countries where they can easily return to terrorism was underscored by the Christmas Day terrorist attack on Northwest Flight 253—where a former Guantanamo detainee is a senior leader of the organization that was responsible for planning and coordinating the attack. The Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act of 2010 would require the President, prior to any detainee transfer from Guantanamo to a foreign country, to certify to Congress the following: the country is not a state sponsor of terrorism; it can secure and exercise control over its territory; no portion of the country serves as a safe haven for terrorist groups, particularly al-Qaeda; and the country has no confirmed case of any individual released into their custody from Guantanamo that returned to terrorist activities. "In writing the legislation, Ranking Member McKeon and the Armed Services Committee Republicans took into consideration testimony made by General David Petraeus, the commander of U.S. Central Command, which highlighted the challenges to U.S. national security posed by Yemen and other countries with ungoverned space and active al-Qaeda terrorists. These countries, according Mr. McKeon need the United States to help them with their security—not the reverse. Transfers and releases to such countries threaten both our and their security. In testimony before the House Armed Services Committee in April 2009, General Petraeus stated, “Yemen stands out from its neighbors on the Peninsula. The inability of the Yemeni government to secure and exercise control over all of its territory offers terrorist and insurgents groups in the region, particularly Al Qaeda, a safe haven in which to plan, organize, and support terrorists operations. It is important that this problem be addressed…” Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX): “I will continue to vehemently oppose any and all misguided priorities that attempt to place America in a pre-9/11 mindset and clearly put political considerations and the interests of liberal advocacy groups ahead of the safety and security of the American people.” Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), the senior Republican on the House Armed Services Committee: “Tomorrow is the President’s self-imposed deadline to close the terrorist detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. One thing has become clear during the past year—the Administration has the wrong policy on how to handle dangerous terrorists captured in the ongoing war on terrorism. Whether it be the ill-advised decision to bring 9/11 mastermind Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to New York City for trial or the effort to relocate terrorists held in Cuba to the American heartland, the Administration has shown an amazing lack of sensitivity for the concerns of Americans. “The Administration has no coherent policies in place for the continued detention and prosecution of these terrorists. The Administration also lacks rigorous procedures for transferring certain Guantanamo detainees to other countries. The rising recidivism rates of former Guantanamo detainees demonstrate the need to change course. In the absence of the Administration revising its Guantanamo detainee transfer and release policy, we are introducing legislation that requires the President to certify and assure the American people that Guantanamo detainees will not be transferred or released to countries where they are likely to return to the fight against the United States.” Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC): “We should not release confirmed terrorists back to countries with a record of orchestrating attacks on America. These terrorists will simply end up back on the battlefield with the intent to harm U.S service members and American citizens.” Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC): “The Christmas bomber gave Americans a loud wakeup call that we are still at war and highlighted holes in our security structures. The government’s response was troubling to everyone who expects our government to connect dots and recognize bright red flags. The Christmas bomber’s connection to Yemen and al-Qaeda put a spotlight on the country, and it should have been shining a long time ago. Going forward, it’s crucial that our government prevents GITMO detainees from being transferred to countries like Yemen with ungoverned spaces and active terrorist organizations.” Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT): “This legislation provides a necessary safeguard to help ensure that the United States, during the GTMO detainee transfer process, is in no way assisting terrorist and insurgents groups’ capabilities to recruit operatives for their terrorists operations. This bill will bolster national security and make certain that the Obama Administration’s current policy allowing for the transfer and release of some detainees back to countries known to be harboring terrorists or terrorist training camps is stopped.” Rep. John Kline (R-MN), a 25-year veteran of the Marine Corps: “Al-Qaeda and its affiliated networks remain formidable enemies of our country and democracy worldwide. Shifting responsibility for the United States’ security to countries with a demonstrated al-Qaeda presence would be reckless and irresponsible.” Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ): "The Obama Administration continues to demonstrate a complete denial of the fundamental reality of the enemy we are fighting. There are many, many well-documented cases of former Gitmo detainees who have been released and immediately returned to terrorist activities. The Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act of 2010 is vital to preventing more American lives from being lost or endangered due to our blindly transferring Gitmo detainees to countries that are known havens of terrorist groups.” Rep. Bill Shuster (R-PA): “The Christmas Day bomb plot which was planned in Yemen uncovered just how far al-Qaeda has spread throughout the Arabian Peninsula and beyond as well as the need for our government to be proactive in confronting this continuing threat. I am a proud cosponsor of the ‘Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act’ because it will force the President to certify that GITMO detainees will not be transferred to governments that turn a blind eye to terrorism and require the Administration to keep tabs on detainees to prove that they have not returned to terrorism after they leave our custody.” Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA): “To win the War on Terror, America must be proactive and always one step ahead of its enemies. The Christmas Day incident sheds light on the flaws in the Obama Administration’s detainee release policies – particularly those pertaining to nations which house al-Qaeda operatives, such as Yemen. The legislation that we are introducing today will require the Administration to ask the hard questions and to certify that in fact a country is prepared to take in detainees. If a country is found to be unprepared, our transfer of detainees to that nation must end immediately.” Rep. Doug Lamborn (R-CO): “This bill will ensure that detainees from Guantanamo Bay are not sent to countries that are not able to control terrorist activities within their borders. It is vital that we take immediate action to stop what has become a revolving door—where terrorists simply return to extremist breeding grounds and continue in their old ways. While I prefer that these individuals remain at Guantanamo Bay, if the Administration is intent on releasing them, we must at the very least, ensure they aren’t going to places that will further radicalize them.” Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA): “I am pleased to join my colleagues as an original cosponsor of the Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act of 2010. I remain steadfastly committed to ensuring terrorists are not brought to our shores, and I remain concerned about the activities of detainees after they are released from Guantanamo Bay. Many of the home countries of these released detainees harbor al-Qaeda cells and operatives. We simply cannot allow these individuals to return to the battlefield and have a renewed opportunity to attack our citizens or our men and women in uniform" Rep. Mary Fallin (R-OK): “I have opposed President Obama’s decision to close GTMO and transfer known terrorists into other nations since day one and I believe his rationale for this decision is totally flawed. While I remain opposed to their transfer at all, we absolutely cannot afford to recycle them into unstable and hostile countries and risk the security of the American people at home and abroad. That’s why I am proud to coauthor this legislation, a common-sense bill to ensure we don’t send known terrorists into countries that could likely provide a safe haven for planning, organizing and supporting future terrorist operations. To ensure anything less would be a major step backward in our fight against terrorism and would put Americans at great risk.” Rep. John Fleming, M.D. (R-LA): “I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure that captured terrorists do not end up in the United States or back on the battlefield fighting U.S. troops. This legislation is crucial to the war on terror and the safety and security of our men and women in uniform.” Rep. Tom Rooney (R-FL): “We cannot allow this administration to transfer detainees from GITMO to potentially dangerous countries which do not have the ability to control and root out terrorists. It is unacceptable for the U.S. to transfer detainees to Yemen or other nations that harbor terrorists.” ###
01.21.2010	“I applaud the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for their timely attention to this important matter. Broadband has the potential to generate American jobs in rural America - not overseas. To achieve that goal, access must be affordable and accessible to people living in rural America. By providing this funding, jobs will be created in our rural communities, technology and infrastructure will improve, and the economies in rural America will change for the better.” share: f t Today, it was announced that the RUS Broadband Initiatives Program (BIP) and the NTIA Broadband Technology Opportunities Program (BTOP) are now offering applications for the second round of funding for broadband in rural America. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided the USDA’s Rural Utilities Service and the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration with $7.2 billion to expand access to broadband services in the United States. The 2008 Farm Bill reauthorized the USDA broadband loan program and improved the criteria used by USDA to select broadband projects for loans, loan and grant combinations, and grants. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), the Ranking Subcommittee Member on the Committee, made the following statement: “I applaud the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) and the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) for their timely attention to this important matter. Broadband has the potential to generate American jobs in rural America - not overseas. To achieve that goal, access must be affordable and accessible to people living in rural America. By providing this funding, jobs will be created in our rural communities, technology and infrastructure will improve, and the economies in rural America will change for the better.” The BIP provides loans and grants for broadband infrastructure projects in rural areas. The BTOP provides grants to fund broadband infrastructure, public computer centers, and sustainable Broadband adoption projects. Please visit www.broadbandusa.gov for all information on broadband funding. On February 1, 2010, USDA and NTIA will host a workshop on the funding in San Antonio. Please visit this website to learn more and register for the workshop: http://www.broadbandusa.gov/workshop.htm ###
01.13.2010	Click here for information on how you can help those affected by the disastrous earthquake in Haiti.
12.21.2009	Last night, the Democrats in the US Senate moved one step closer to making their 2,700 page government-run health care plan a reality for Americans. Never in my time in Congress have I seen the people of West and Central Texas so emotional and passionate about an issue, and rightfully so. share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made the following statement after the United States Senate voted to proceed with debate on a government takeover of our nation's health care system: “Last night, the Democrats in the US Senate moved one step closer to making their 2,700 page government-run health care plan a reality for Americans. Never in my time in Congress have I seen the people of West and Central Texas so emotional and passionate about an issue, and rightfully so. Over the past months, concerned citizens from across the country have voiced their concerns at town hall meetings, fought to protect their rights on the steps of the Capitol, written to their local papers and news stations, and called their Representatives and Senators in Washington voicing their concerns about this bad legislation. Yet now, during the week of Christmas, the President, Nancy Pelosi, and Harry Reid are putting coal in the stockings of every single hard-working American in this country in the form of a costly, government-run plan that rises costs, funds abortion coverage, cuts Medicare and creates hundreds of billions in new taxes. This $2.5 trillion bill is not what the American people want."
12.17.2009	“If the past year has proven one thing about the Majority in Congress, it is that they are good at spending hard-earned taxpayer money. House Democrats have found yet another way to put this nation even further into debt by passing a second ‘stimulus’ bill, which creates over $150 billion in new federal spending." share: f t Last night, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) voted against the Democrats’ second stimulus bill, which narrowly passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 217-212. He made this statement following the vote: “If the past year has proven one thing about the Majority in Congress, it is that they are good at spending hard-earned taxpayer money. House Democrats have found yet another way to put this nation even further into debt by passing a second ‘stimulus’ bill, which creates over $150 billion in new federal spending. Their plan will pour billions into the very same programs that received funding in the original stimulus. In many cases, money from the first stimulus has not yet been spent. If spending money really was the answer, then shouldn’t we spend the money we have already borrowed before we borrow another $150 billion? “This bill is not what the American people want. The solution to our current economic situation is not more spending and regulation from Washington. We need to cut spending, reduce the deficit and encourage small business to grow and hire. My hope for 2010 is that we will be able to work together to make common-sense decisions about the best ways to create jobs, help small businesses get back on their feet, and leave more hard-earned money in the pockets of the Americans who earned it.” Click here to see a side-by-side comparison of Stimulus I vs. Stimulus II.
12.11.2009	Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made the following statement after the House of Representatives passed HR 4173; Barney Frank’s Government Takeover of the Financial Service Industry. “Small businesses that are still suffering from the credit crisis last year will find it even more difficult to obtain credit with the passage of this bill. Certain reforms are important to ensure that the free market is not impeded by interference or nefarious business practices, but this legislation does more to expand government control of the industry than reform.” “As banks and financial institutions accommodate these new rules, they will be forced to restrict their lending to businesses, ultimately impending job growth and creation. The formation of a new government overseer to impose Barney Frank’s political agenda will lead to an overreach of federal authority in all aspects of the economy. The Speaker and the President would find more support in their proposals if they focused on economic solutions that create jobs.”
12.10.2009	“The fact that the President finds it permissible to use TARP funds that have been repaid and should be going to reduce our massive deficit to provide more bailouts that are completely unrelated to the financial crisis of 2008 is wrongheaded and is simply unacceptable. If our President and the Majority in Congress really want to create jobs and get the economy back on its feet, they should pay down the deficit, stop the spending and borrowing, and start putting money back in the pockets of hard-working Americans where it belongs.” share: f t Tonight, President Obama is set to make an address to the nation on the current state of the economy. He is expected to lay out his plan to use the TARP money that has been repaid to send financial aid to California, New York, and other states that are in economic turmoil. A poll shows that a staggering 58 percent of American voters oppose such a plan to bail out states that are in "serious financial trouble”. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made the following statement on the issue: “The fact that the President finds it permissible to use TARP funds that have been repaid and should be going to reduce our massive deficit to provide more bailouts that are completely unrelated to the financial crisis of 2008 is wrongheaded and is simply unacceptable. If our President and the Majority in Congress really want to create jobs and get the economy back on its feet, they should pay down the deficit, stop the spending and borrowing, and start putting money back in the pockets of hard-working Americans where it belongs.” ###
12.05.2009	"This announcement is a huge win for West Texas, and brings a flood of encouragement in a discouraging economic environment. This project will directly create thousands of jobs for hard-working West Texans. Texas has a unique opportunity with the "NowGen" project, as it is the first of its kind and will be used as an example for clean coal technology across the globe in the future. Through clean coal technology, we can learn to burn coal with as near zero emissions as possible, which this plant does." share: f t Yesterday, it was announced that a $350 Million federal grant will go toward a new clean coal power plant initiative in Ector County, set to create 2,000 jobs for the Odessa area. This grant, awarded to the Texas Clean Energy Project, is the largest grant awarded to date by the Department of Energy, and covers about 20% of the total cost of the project. Conaway made the following statement after the announcement: "This announcement is a huge win for West Texas, and brings a flood of encouragement in a discouraging economic environment. This project will directly create thousands of jobs for hard-working West Texans. Texas has a unique opportunity with the "NowGen" project, as it is the first of its kind and will be used as an example for clean coal technology across the globe in the future. Through clean coal technology, we can learn to burn coal with as near zero emissions as possible, which this plant does. "I applaud all who helped to make this project possible, and praise the Department of Energy for recognizing the importance of this project. Because of their swift action, groundbreaking should occur within a year, and the plant should be up and running by 2014. I'm proud to have worked with the Texas Delegation in both the House and Senate, Members of the state of Washington Congressional Delegation, the Texas State House and Senate, the Union Pacific Railroad, the Clean Air Task Force and the National Resource Defense Council to make this project a reality. It is a good day in West Texas." The plant is expected to be built in Penwell, about 15 miles Southwest of Odessa. ###
12.04.2009	Today, new unemployment numbers were released indicating that over 11,000 Americans lost their jobs in the month of November, with the unemployment rate at 10%. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made this statement following the announcement: "Today's announcement just reinforces what I've been saying: we must stop the out-of-control spending and the attempted government take-over of our health care system, financial services system, and the auto industry and focus on creating jobs. "Yesterday, President Obama held a "jobs summit" at the White House in an attempt to convince the public that job creation is a priority for his administration. The numbers prove that the Democrats ill-advised economic policies are not working, and it is my hope that we can work together in a bipartisan manner toward a fiscally conservative, common sense plan to lower the deficit and get Americans back to work." ###
12.03.2009	Today, House Democrats brought a vote to the House floor that reinstates the dreaded Estate Tax, also known as the “Death Tax”, at 45% with a $3.5 million exclusion amount. The death tax expires for one year, beginning on January 1, 2010, before resurfacing in full force on January 1, 2011. share: f t Today, House Democrats brought a vote to the House floor that reinstates the dreaded Estate Tax, also known as the “Death Tax”, at 45% with a $3.5 million exclusion amount. The death tax expires for one year, beginning on January 1, 2010, before resurfacing in full force on January 1, 2011. “As a CPA and former small business owner, this is a subject that I am very passionate about,” said Conaway. “First and foremost, the death tax is bad policy and needs to be fully repealed. Democrats propose that this bill will provide a permanent fix to the estate tax, but the tax is not adjusted for inflation and does not adjust the alternative valuation for farmland or the deduction for family-owned businesses.” Congressman Conaway offered two amendments to the bill that would adjust the exclusion amount to inflation and increase the alternative valuation for farmland to $1.85 million (adjusted to inflation) and $2 million for family owned businesses. Unfortunately, Speaker Pelosi would not allow these permanent fixes to come to the floor. However, Conaway hopes to work with moderate and Blue Dog Democrats to gain support for a full repeal of the death tax to lift the burden from Rural America and small businesses. Conaway went on to say, “The death tax imposes a huge financial burden on American families and small businesses, while simultaneously destroying jobs and lowering wages for workers. Taxing death is bad policy, and I will continue fighting to repeal the estate tax permanently to remove the heavy hand of the government from pushing on the backs of our farmers and ranchers, small businesses, and hardworking Americans.” ###
11.19.2009	Today, the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture, held a hearing to review broadband funding enacted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Subcommittee heard testimony from officials representing the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Department of Commerce. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided the USDA’s Rural Utilities Service and the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration with $7.2 billion to expand access to broadband services in the United States. The 2008 Farm Bill reauthorized the USDA broadband loan program and improved the criteria used by USDA to select broadband projects for loans, loan and grant combinations, and grants. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), the Ranking Subcommittee Member on the Committee, made this statement following today’s hearing: “The stimulus funding provided a great opportunity to bring broadband to the unserved rural communities in America. Broadband has the potential to generate American jobs in rural America - not overseas. To achieve that goal, access must be affordable and accessible to people living in rural America. It was my hope that this hearing would work to resolve some of the problems in the program, including defining remote versus rural areas and increasing participation in the program for the next Notice of Available Funds (NOAF). “It is unfortunate that an arbitrary deadline set by Congress in February is resulting in a flawed process. This subcommittee is providing oversight of the USDA to ensure that Rural Americans receive the best possible broadband available. It is my hope that some of the suggestions made by the committee members today will be incorporated in the next round of funding. “I am perplexed by the agencies’ position to include non-discrimination provisions that go beyond what the FCC proposed in the October 22nd rule. Experts on both sides of this debate believe that the FCC is the best governing body to find the right balance between protecting broadband consumers while allowing broadband providers to manage their networks against security threats and congestion. By applying these rules existing broadband providers or providers that are not connected to a larger network are not applying for the grant and loan funding, in part because these requirements will place costly restrictions on their network and will impose net-neutrality policies that go above and beyond what is being proposed by the FCC. “The next NOFA should use the FCC’s statutory authority to regulate and govern broadband provider’s network management to avoid litigation and allow proper negotiations on this controversial issue.” Rep. Mike Conaway is a Member of the House Agriculture Committee, and is Ranking Member of the Rural Development Subcommittee. ###
11.13.2009	U.S. Rep. K. Michael Conaway, a member of both the House Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following comments regarding the Obama Administration's decision to prosecute Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, mastermind of the September 11th attacks, and five other Guantanamo detainees in a federal court in New York City located just blocks away from the location where the World Trade Center towers that were destroyed. share: f t U.S. Rep. K. Michael Conaway, a member of both the House Armed Services Committee and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, today made the following comments regarding the Obama Administration's decision to prosecute Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, mastermind of the September 11th attacks, and five other Guantanamo detainees in a federal court in New York City located just blocks away from the location where the World Trade Center towers that were destroyed. “The Obama Administration’s decision to prosecute these terrorists on American soil in the U.S. court system sends the message that the President sees the atrocities of 9/11 as a crime and not an act of war. Make no mistake—the perpetrators of the deadly attacks, which took the lives of over 3,000 Americans, are, in fact, not common criminals but rather terrorists who violated the laws of war. As a result, they should be tried through the military commissions process, which was specifically designed to deal with such horrendous acts. “Placing political considerations and the interests of liberal advocacy groups ahead of the safety and security of the American public is unconscionable. I urge President Obama to resist complacency and to cease continued courses of action that attempt to create a pre-9/11 mentality. I urge Speaker Pelosi and other Democratic Leaders to work with House Republicans to pass legislation that would halt such actions.” Congressman Conaway is a cosponsor of H.R. 2294, the Keep Terrorists Out of America Act. The legislation, if enacted, would stop the transfer or release of terrorists held at Guantanamo Bay prison into the United States. Further, the legislation clearly states that governors and state legislators must pre-approve the transfer or release of any terrorist detainee into their respected states. ###
11.12.2009	Next Thursday, November 19th at 11:00 a.m. EST, the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture, will hold a hearing to review broadband funding enacted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Subcommittee will hear testimony from officials representing the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Department of Commerce. share: f t Next Thursday, November 19th at 11:00 a.m. EST, the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture, will hold a hearing to review broadband funding enacted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The Subcommittee will hear testimony from officials representing the U.S. Department of Agriculture and Department of Commerce. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided the USDA’s Rural Utilities Service and the Department of Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information Administration with $7.2 billion total to expand access to broadband services in the United States. The 2008 Farm Bill reauthorized the USDA broadband loan program and improved the criteria used by USDA to select broadband projects for loans, loan and grant combinations, and grants. “Broadband has the potential to generate American jobs in rural America - not overseas,” said Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX-11). “To achieve that goal, access must be affordable and accessible to people living in rural America. It is my hope that this hearing will focus on resolving some of the problems in the program, including defining remote versus rural areas and increasing participation in the program for the next Notice of Available Funds.” Rep. Conaway is the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture. ###
11.07.2009	Buried within the contents of the 1,990 page bill—as well as a separate 13-page bill (H.R. 3961) that would increase the deficit by more than $200 billion—are details that will see a massive federal involvement in the health care of every American, including the following: Creation of a government-run health plan that experts say would result in up to 114 million Americans losing their current coverage—a clear violation of any pledge to allow individuals to keep their current health plan Nearly half a trillion dollars in tax increases on certain income filers, a majority of whom are small businesses—and $729.5 billion in tax increases overall Insurance regulations that would raise costs for nearly all Americans, particularly young Americans, and confine choice of plans to those approved by a board of bureaucrats New price controls on health insurance companies that provide perverse incentives to keep individuals sick rather than managing chronic disease, while impeding patient access to important services just because those services do not provide a direct clinical benefit Additional federal mandates that would significantly erode the flexibility currently provided to employers—and could result in firms dropping coverage Massive expansion of Medicaid to all individuals with incomes below 150 percent of the Federal Poverty Level ($33,075 for a family of four), replacing the existing private health coverage of millions with taxpayer-funded health care—and imposing tens of billions of dollars in new unfunded mandates on States Denial of health plan choice to 15 million Americans, consigning them instead to a Medicaid program riddled with bureaucratic obstacles and poor access to care, such that its own beneficiaries do not consider it “real insurance;” Language opening employers operating group health plans to State law remedies and private causes of action—subjecting employers to review by 50 different State court rulings, thereby raising costs and encouraging more employers to drop their current health plans Liability “reforms” intended to ensure trial lawyers do not have their compensation reduced, rather than meaningful changes that would reduce the cost of health care by eliminating wasteful defensive medicine practices Establishment of a bureaucrat-run health Exchange that would abolish the private market for individual insurance outside the Exchange—and could evolve into a single-payer approach due to the Exchange’s ability to cannibalize existing employer plans Creation of a new government board, the “Health Benefits Advisory Committee,” that would empower federal bureaucrats to impose new mandates on individuals and insurance carriers Taxation of individuals who do not purchase a level of health coverage that meets the diktats of a board of bureaucrats—including those who cannot afford the coverage options provided New, job-killing taxes—$135 billion worth—on employers who cannot afford to provide their workers health insurance, resulting in up to 5.5 million lost jobs, according to a model developed by President Obama’s chief economic advisor Penalties as high as $500,000 on employers who make honest mistakes when filing paperwork with the government health board—which would likely dissuade businesses from continuing to provide coverage, increasing enrollment in the bureaucrat-run Exchange Arbitrary and harmful cuts to popular Medicare Advantage plans that would result in millions of seniors losing their current health coverage Expanded price controls on pharmaceutical products that would discourage companies from producing life-saving breakthrough treatments. *Information provided by the House Republican Conference*
11.07.2009	“Over the past six months, I have had the opportunity to visit with thousands of people in West and Central Texas about the issue of health care reform. Across the board, the overwhelming consensus has been the same: the proposed plan that passed tonight is bad medicine." share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made this statement tonight following the House of Representatives slim passage of HR 3962, Speaker Pelosi’s 2,000 page government-run overhaul of our health care system: “Over the past six months, I have had the opportunity to visit with thousands of people in West and Central Texas about the issue of health care reform. Across the board, the overwhelming consensus has been the same: the proposed plan that passed tonight is bad medicine. “The Democrat’s health care bill will cost Americans more than $1.2 trillion over the next decade. To put that in perspective, if our government were to spend one dollar every second on this health care plan, it would take 31,688 Years, 269 Days, 1 Hour, 46 Minutes, and 40 Seconds. It is a staggering realization, and is a number we simply cannot afford. It is a cost that will be placed squarely on the backs of hard-working Americans in the form of massive tax increases. “I agree that our health care system needs reform. However, I do not believe that if the kitchen sink is broken, you tear down the house to fix it. I am vehemently opposed to this plan, or any plan, that puts Washington bureaucrats between patients and the health care that they need and deserve. It is essential that Congress take the time to get this right to ensure that the doctor/patient relationship is protected, quality is ensured, and our system becomes more cost efficient.”
11.06.2009	“Yesterday in Fort Hood, the unimaginable occurred. The lives of twelve American soldiers and one civilian were tragically ended, and some thirty others wounded, in a senseless shooting spree by a fellow soldier. These are men and women who have selflessly committed their lives to fighting for our country in the most dangerous situations imaginable. They are the finest of us all, and their lives were taken in an irrational wave of violence. My thoughts are prayers are with the families and loved ones of those killed and wounded, as well as with the entire family that is Fort Hood.” share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement regarding yesterday’s tragedy at Fort Hood: “Yesterday in Fort Hood, the unimaginable occurred. The lives of twelve American soldiers and one civilian were tragically ended, and some thirty others wounded, in a senseless shooting spree by a fellow soldier. These are men and women who have selflessly committed their lives to fighting for our country in the most dangerous situations imaginable. They are the finest of us all, and their lives were taken in an irrational wave of violence. My thoughts are prayers are with the families and loved ones of those killed and wounded, as well as with the entire family that is Fort Hood.” Conaway is travelling to Fort Hood and is expected to arrive in Killeen by late morning. Conaway, along with Congressman John Carter (TX-31), plans to meet with Army officials and representatives from Fort Hood to be briefed on the latest findings in the investigation, and to determine the next steps that need to be taken to support those who were touched by this terrible tragedy. *Congressman Conaway will attempt to accommodate media interview requests during the day as time allows, and plans to return to Washington this evening for the upcoming House vote on healthcare reform scheduled for Saturday. Conaway’s Congressional district neighbors Ft. Hood, with many constituents working at the post. Conaway served in the Army at Fort Hood in the 70’s, and currently serves on both the House Armed Services Committee and the House Intelligence Committee. ###
11.05.2009	“At a time when American families across the country are struggling to pay their mortgages, put food on the table, and pay their bills, the Majority in Congress, as well as the President, needs to focus on cutting wasteful government spending and job creation." share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), made the following statement today after the Department of Labor announced the national unemployment rate reached 10.2 percent during the month of October, the highest rate since April 1983: “At a time when American families across the country are struggling to pay their mortgages, put food on the table, and pay their bills, the Majority in Congress, as well as the President, needs to focus on cutting wasteful government spending and job creation. “I urge the Majority to put aside their massive federal government health care takeover scheme, and I stand ready to work in a bipartisan manner to reign in federal spending, get our nation back on track and get hard working Americans back to work.”
11.02.2009	Tuesday, November 3rd from 5:30-6:30 pm Central, I will be hosting a Telephone Town Hall meeting to discuss Speaker Pelosi's 1,990 page government takeover of our health care system and other pressing issues. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 at 5:30 p.m. Central and use the passcode 13347 share: f t Tuesday, November 3rd from 5:30-6:30 pm Central, I will be hosting a Telephone Town Hall meeting to discuss Speaker Pelosi's 1,990 page government takeover of our health care system and other pressing issues. If you live in District 11 and would like to participate, dial 877-229-8493 at 5:30 p.m. Central and use the passcode 13347. As always, I encourage you to check out my website and blog for the latest updates as to what is happening in Washington. I look forward to visiting with everyone tomorrow. -Mike
10.28.2009	Today, President Obama signed into law the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which included language that Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced with Congressman Health Shuler (D-NC), along with Senators Joe Lieberman (I-CT) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), that provides the Secretary of Defense the ability to protect American troops and civilians by preventing the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in U.S. custody. share: f t Today, President Obama signed into law the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which included language that Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced with Congressman Health Shuler (D-NC), along with Senators Joe Lieberman (I-CT) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), that provides the Secretary of Defense the ability to protect American troops and civilians by preventing the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in U.S. custody. “I am pleased that Congress and the President have taken steps to prevent the detainee photos from being released to protect our troops and increase the safety of American citizens,” said Conaway. “The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to enact this legislation. “The consequences of refusing to enact this legislation were simple and grave: if these photos had been released, they would be used by our enemy to provoke violence against Americans and to further recruit insurgents on behalf of a violent anti-American cause. Protecting our troops is not a Republican issue or a Democrat issue, and I am pleased that my colleagues in the House and Senate, as well as our President, recognize the importance of enacting this legislation.” While I am pleased that the detainee photo legislation was included in the final Homeland Security Appropriations Bill that was signed by the President, I could not in good faith vote for final passage of the bill, as it would compromise the safety of Americans by allowing prisoners at Guantanamo Bay entrance into the United States. ###
10.22.2009	This week, Congressman Mike Conaway welcomed Hilary Stegemoller to his personal staff to head his Brownwood district office. Hilary comes to Congressman Conaway’s team from the Brownwood Chamber of Commerce where she was the assistant to the Convention and Visitors Bureau and Membership Director. share: f t Brownwood, TX – This week, Congressman Mike Conaway welcomed Hilary Stegemoller to his personal staff to head his Brownwood district office. Hilary comes to Congressman Conaway’s team from the Brownwood Chamber of Commerce where she was the assistant to the Convention and Visitors Bureau and Membership Director. “I am thrilled that Hilary will be joining us to serve the Brownwood area,” said Rep. Conaway. “Her experience from working with people at the Chamber of Commerce to tutoring children in the Brownwood Independent School District gives Hilary a unique compassion to help constituents with any issues that my office can help assist with. I am confident that Hilary will be an excellent addition to our team, and I encourage anyone that is having issues with the federal government, VA, or any other federal issue, to contact her with their concerns and questions.” “I look forward to working with Congressman Conaway and the other District Offices in helping the constituents of District 11,” said Hilary. The Brownwood hours of operation will be Monday through Friday, 8:00-5:00 pm.
10.15.2009	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) applauded the inclusion of his language in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which was introduced with Congressman Health Shuler (D-NC), that provides the Secretary of Defense the ability to protect American troops and civilians by preventing the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in U.S. custody. The Senate unanimously passed this legislation last week, which was introduced by Senators Lieberman and Graham, as an amendment to the Senate’s Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) applauded the inclusion of his language in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, which was introduced with Congressman Health Shuler (D-NC), that provides the Secretary of Defense the ability to protect American troops and civilians by preventing the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in U.S. custody. The Senate unanimously passed this legislation last week, which was introduced by Senators Lieberman and Graham, as an amendment to the Senate’s Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. Congressman Conaway made this statement following its passage: “I am pleased that Congress has taken the measure to prevent the detainee photos from being released to protect our troops and increase the safety of American citizens,” said Conaway. “The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to enact this legislation into law. This legislation is imperative to the safety of our troops and our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The consequences of refusing to enact this legislation are simple: if these photos are released, they will be used by our enemy to provoke violence against Americans and to further recruit insurgents on behalf of a violent anti-American cause. Protecting our troops is not a Republican issue or a Democrat issue, and I am pleased that my colleagues in both the House and Senate recognize the importance of including this legislation in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill. I thank Congressman Shuler and Senators Graham and Lieberman for their leadership, and urge quick passage in the Senate and a swift signature by the President. In spite of the detainee photo legislation that was included in the final Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, Congressman Conaway could not vote in favor of the Appropriations bill as it included harmful legislation that would compromise the safety of Americans by allowing prisoners at Guantanamo Bay entrance into the United States. Click here to listen to Rep. Conaway’s podcast on this issue. ###
10.08.2009	“The ‘Hate crimes’ provisions in this legislation are contradictory to the First Amendment and are unnecessary. This is yet another ploy for the Democrats to push their liberal agenda through Congress while playing politics with our troops. I am disappointed by their actions, and was left with no choice.” share: f t Today, the House voted to pass the Department of Defense Authorization Act, which is usually a bill that will provide our troops with the authorization for key funding needed to succeed in our mission in Iraq and Afghanistan. This year, however, Democrat leaders needlessly included the unrelated legislation for federal criminalization of certain “hate crimes”. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, today made the following statement regarding the Department of Defense Authorization legislation: “I believe that the support for our men and women in uniform is paramount, and never in a million years would I have thought I would have to vote against legislation that authorizes funding for our troops and our missions in Iraq and Afghanistan. In years past, we have been able to craft a bipartisan bill that ensures that the needs of our troops and commanders are met and the Department of Defense can carry out its mission of ensuring national security. This year, however, Democrat leaders have included ‘hate crimes’ legislation in the DOD Authorization bill, forcing those of us who oppose the hate crimes legislation to choose between opposing the Democrats liberal social agenda and voting against our troops. “The ‘Hate crimes’ provisions in this legislation are contradictory to the First Amendment and are unnecessary. This is yet another ploy for the Democrats to push their liberal agenda through Congress while playing politics with our troops. I am disappointed by their actions, and was left with no choice.”
10.07.2009	Senators Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Heath Shuler (D-NC) today applauded the action of the conferees on the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to give the Secretary of Defense the ability to protect American troops and civilians by preventing the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in U.S. custody. The Senate unanimously passed this legislation, which was introduced by Senators Lieberman and Graham, as an amendment to the Senate’s Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, and Representatives Conaway and Shuler have sponsored similar legislation in the House. The sponsors thanked the conferees for including this vital measure in the conference report: “I thank the House and Senate conferees for taking this step that is necessary to protect the men and women of our military who go into in harm’s way to defend our security and liberty,” said Lieberman. “The President has expressed his strong support for this legislation, and with its inclusion in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, I am looking forward to its swift passage by the House and Senate and signature by the President.” “I’m pleased Congress has finally acted to prevent the further release of photos showing detainee abuse,” said Graham. “I hope the courts will give deference to the Executive and Legislative branches who now speak with one voice prohibiting the photos’ release. From the beginning I have said these photos do not add anything new. The release of these photos would be used by our enemies to incite violence against our soldiers and civilians serving abroad. I appreciate the President’s decision to oppose the photos’ release and thank the White House for working with us to pass this important provision.” “I am pleased that Congress has taken the measure to prevent the detainee photos from being released to protect our troops and increase the safety of American citizens,” said Conaway. “The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to make sure this bill becomes law. This bill is imperative to the safety of our troops and our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. I applaud Senators Graham and Lieberman for their leadership and urge quick passage in the House and Senate and a swift signature by the President.” “President Obama opposes the release of these photos because it would endanger our troops, and I stand fully behind him,” said Shuler. “Generals and military experts warn that the release of these photos would fan the hatred of extremist groups at a time when tensions already run high in the Middle East. We don’t want to provide recruitment tools to al-Qaeda.”
09.17.2009	Members of the House Missile Defense Caucus today gave the following statements upon hearing that President Barack Obama has officially chosen to abandon plans for the European Missile Defense site, including the deployment of 10 missile interceptors in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic. share: f t Members of the House Missile Defense Caucus today gave the following statements upon hearing that President Barack Obama has officially chosen to abandon plans for the European Missile Defense site, including the deployment of 10 missile interceptors in Poland and a radar in the Czech Republic. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11): "It is disconcerting that the Obama Administration continues to move U.S. foreign policy in the wrong direction by appeasing bad actors rather than strengthening the protection of the United States of America and our allies. Decisions affecting the security of our nation should be made with facts and realities in mind, not the wishful thinking of how the Obama Administration hopes antagonists abroad will behave in the future." Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-02), founding co-chair of the Missile Defense Caucus (MDC): "The President has disgraced this nation by breaking his word to loyal and courageous allies in the Czech Republic and Poland. We have become the greatest nation in history because our word has meant something. Today as fundamentally altered that paradigm. President Obama promised on the campaign trail that he would support missile defense that is 'pragmatic and cost-effective.' Unfortunately, this is not just another one of his many broken campaign promises. According to the Congressional Budget Office and the Institute for Defense Analysis the Administration's alternative missile defense systems for defense of Europe are far more costly and would not provide close to the effectiveness of Ground Based Midcourse Defense (GMD) at protecting the U.S. homeland and our European allies. The President has ignored both of those objective measurements-- cost as well as effectiveness-- which seems to be the pattern for this Administration. He has also endangered this and coming generations from a possible missile attack from Iran or other rogue States in the Middle East who may soon attain ballistic missile capability. Certainly it encourages Iran to happily proceed with their nuclear weapons ambitions, and I am stunned as to why the President does not understand the incredible danger Iran represents to the free world. Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05), co-chairman of the MDC: "President Obama’s decision to drastically scale back missile defense in Europe is deeply troubling. It undermines relations with key allies in Eastern Europe. It downplays the emerging Iranian long-range threat, and takes away a strategic disincentive against their plans. It sets up a false dichotomy between theater missile defense, which we could have stood up at a moment’s notice all along, with long range missile defense, when both are vital. President Obama’s lack of strategic vision goes beyond weakness into appeasement." Congressman Pete Sessions (TX-32), co-chairman of the MDC: “At a time of rapidly-advancing ballistic missile threats from Iran, President Obama has chosen the pathway of least resistance and consequently compromised an effective missile defense strategy that is critical to the safety of Europe and the United State’s other allies. Now more than ever, the United States should demonstrate leadership in missile defense development and courage in the face of rogue regimes.” Congressman Mike Rogers (AL-03): “News that the Obama Administration is restructuring the missile defense shield in Europe is unsettling and this development presents a serious blow to our counterparts in the Czech Republic and Poland. The Administration should come to brief Congress with details of its new plan for a new Ballistic Missile Defense system that will adequately protect the United States and our allies from the Iranian threat.” Congressman Robert Aderholt (AL-04): "I am disappointed that the President is abandoning plans to deploy technology that works right now, in favor of a theoretical new version of the Aegis system, which would not be ready until 2015 at the earliest. That is a big risk to take, and sends the wrong signal to the unpredictable regimes currently in power in Iran and North Korea." Congressman Bill Shuster (PA-09): "The Obama Administration is taking a very risky gamble with missile defense. By appeasing Moscow, we have increased the danger of Russian imperialism for millions of innocent Poles, Czechs, Georgians, Ukrainians and Azerbaijanis and we have shown our hand to the Iranians, who continue to defy international pressure on their nuclear program." Congressman Tom Price (GA-06): "Recent intelligence reports make clear that Iranian missile programs are a serious threat to our allies. Iran already has enough nuclear fuel to build a nuclear weapon, and the development of missile technology is being aided by other rogue nations. A commander-in-chief’s first priority is national security, yet it has taken a backseat to international appeasement. This is a sad, dangerous day for America and our allies." Congressman Steve King (IA-05): "This announcement by the Obama Administration is another move straight out of the Neville Chamberlain foreign policy playbook. The Obama Administration appears intent on appeasing rogue dictators and threatening regimes, even at the expense of our allies. This move, combined with cuts to our missile defense budget, indicates the Obama Administration’s strategy is to appease Iran and Russia rather than stand up to tyranny and totalitarianism." Congressman Todd Tiahrt (KS-04): "The decision by the Obama administration to shelve the missile-defense system in Poland and the Czech Republic to placate the Kremlin and ignore the looming threat of nuclear missile power developing in Iran is naïve and dangerous. The Obama administration’s desire to appease the Russians has clearly trumped the safety of the American people. Iran has made it clear they have no intention of slowing down in their development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles, and neither should we waste any time in developing a system to counter this threat. I strongly urge President Obama to rethink this misguided decision and move swiftly to prepare today for tomorrow’s challenges." Congressman Todd Akin (MO-02): "The President’s decision to back away from our plans to put missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic effectively abandons two of our allies who had worked hard and taken political risks for the sake of European and American security. The Administration has sent a clear signal to our central and eastern European allies that the United States, under this President, cannot be counted on to stand by our commitments." Congressman Roscoe Bartlett (MD-06): "The announcement that the United States will abandon construction of two ballistic missile defense sites in Poland and the Czech Republic is regrettable because there isn’t a definitive alternative plan in place to address the widely acknowledged growing threat to Europe and Russia from ballistic missiles." Congressman Adam Putnam (FL-12): "This plan completely ignores Iran’s disregard of the international community in its ongoing pursuit of long-range ballistic missiles and nuclear warheads which would have the capability of reaching Europe. In addition, by making this decision on the 70th anniversary of the Soviet Union’s invasion of Poland this sends the wrong message to our European allies about America’s determination to stand with its partners in the face of intimidation."
09.17.2009	“I am highly disappointed with my colleagues across the aisle for passing yet another piece of legislation that bloats our federal government. Today, the House voted to abolish the successful and well-respected Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) student loan program and replace it with a system of government-run lending directly from the United States Treasury." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made the following statement after voting ‘no’ on H.R. 3221, The Student Aid and Financial Responsibility Act: “I am highly disappointed with my colleagues across the aisle for passing yet another piece of legislation that bloats our federal government. Today, the House voted to abolish the successful and well-respected Federal Family Education Loan (FFEL) student loan program and replace it with a system of government-run lending directly from the United States Treasury. “Over the past forty years, the Federal Family Education Loan program has provided over 200 million loans and the opportunity for countless young men and women to seek higher education. These services are delivered at very little cost to families struggling to provide their children with a college education. This government-run lending program will be bad for students, bad for schools and bad for American jobs. It will add layers of bureaucratic red-tape while providing only the minimum in services to students and their families. “The Democrats claim that this student loan bill “saves” $7.8 billion” over ten years; but once the bill’s budget gimmicks are accounted for, the cost is actually $50.1 billion. This bill has the potential to eliminate over 30,000 jobs in the private sector and creates ten new mandatory federal programs. “The parallels between this takeover of our student loan system and the Democrats’ plan for a government takeover of our health care system are staggering, and I simply could not support this bad bill.”
09.15.2009	“It has become evident that ACORN has been using taxpayer dollars to run potentially criminal businesses and unethical activities out of their offices. We simply cannot allow one more penny of hard-working American money to go towards funding this corrupt organization. It is my fervent hope that the President will terminate ACORN’s funding and that ties between ACORN and the federal government are cut for good. If not, we have a bill ready to take straight to the House Floor.” share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) cosponsored the Defund ACORN Act, a piece of legislation that would terminate all federal funding to ACORN and all of its affiliates after potentially criminal information has surfaced about the organization. House Republicans sent a letter to President Obama encouraging him to cut all federal funding of ACORN. “It has become evident that ACORN has been using taxpayer dollars to run potentially criminal businesses and unethical activities out of their offices. We simply cannot allow one more penny of hard-working American money to go towards funding this corrupt organization. It is my fervent hope that the President will terminate ACORN’s funding and that ties between ACORN and the federal government are cut for good. If not, we have a bill ready to take straight to the House Floor.” Today, the United States Senate passed their version of this bill almost unanimously with a vote of 83-7.
09.11.2009	“On this eighth anniversary of 9/11 we must remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the heroic first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice in order help others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives everyday for our freedom." share: f t “On this eighth anniversary of 9/11 we must remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the heroic first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice in order help others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives everyday for our freedom. Let us remember the patriotism and unity we felt on September 11th in the days ahead and continue to fight against Islamic jihadists and hate in memory of that dark and horrifying Tuesday morning that changed our lives forever. “On that fateful Tuesday morning, America awoke to scenes of unimaginable horror and the reality of an uncertain future in a forever changed world. We, as a country, lost our innocence and realized the ruthless brutality of those who wish to eradicate our freedoms and endanger our lives. Yet while the horror and sorrow tested our spirits and strength, the morning of September 11th also united a patriotic America with the zeal and dedication not seen since the days after the Pearl Harbor attack."
09.09.2009	"I vehemently oppose any plan that puts Washington bureaucrats between patients and the health care that they need and deserve. I stand with the majority of the American people and demand that we propose real solutions to get our economy back on track and reform this wonderful nation’s health care system.” share: f t Tonight, President Obama addressed a joint session of Congress to discuss his health care plan. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made the following statement in response to the speech: “Over the August district work period, I had the opportunity to visit with thousands of people in District 11 on the issue of health care reform. In my 4 ½ years in Congress, never have I seen any single issue take on the amount of heat and emotion that this legislation is getting. Their message was clear to me: this plan will not work. After tonight’s speech, I doubt that there are many people in West and Central Texas that are happy with our President’s plan. While I agree with our President that our health care system needs to be reformed, I do not agree with his approach. It is essential that Congress take the time to get this right to ensure that the doctor/patient relationship is protected, quality is ensured, and our system becomes more cost efficient. I vehemently oppose any plan that puts Washington bureaucrats between patients and the health care that they need and deserve. I stand with the majority of the American people and demand that we propose real solutions to get our economy back on track and reform this wonderful nation’s health care system.” Click here to watch a video of Rep. Conaway discussing his stance on health care.
09.08.2009	Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway welcomed home the National Guard, Company C, 2/142 Infantry, 56th Brigade Combat Team, 36th Infantry Division home from Iraq. He presented a flag, flown over the United States Capitol in their honor. share: f t Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway welcomed home the National Guard, Company C, 2/142 Infantry, 56th Brigade Combat Team, 36th Infantry Division home from Iraq. He presented a flag, flown over the United States Capitol in their honor.
08.01.2009	For the next month, I will be travelling through the 36 counties that make up District 11 speaking with doctors, patients, and hospital personnel about the current health care legislation. When dealing with issues as important as health reform, I feel it is best to hear from the experts, those who live and breathe the health care system on a daily basis, to find out what the best steps are for our country in terms of reform. share: f t On Friday, July 31st, the House of Representatives finished legislative business for the next month and Members headed back to their respective districts for the August district work period. For the next month, I will be travelling through the 36 counties that make up District 11 speaking with doctors, patients, and hospital personnel about the current health care legislation. When dealing with issues as important as health reform, I feel it is best to hear from the experts, those who live and breathe the health care system on a daily basis, to find out what the best steps are for our country in terms of reform. More events will be added so check back regularly! 8/3: Meet with doctors, nurses, and hospital personnel in Snyder Meet with doctors, nurses, patients, and hospital personnel in Sweetwater 8/4: 8:50 - 9:20 am: Health care open forum at the Coke County Courthouse in Robert Lee - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 8/5: Meet with doctors, nurses, and hospital personnel in Sonora Meet with doctors, nurses, and hospital personnel in Brady 8/10: 3:30-5:00 pm: Meet with hospital staff, faculty, physicians, and patients at Midland Memorial Hospital - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 8/11: 8:30 am: Meet with doctors, nurses, hospital personnel, and the general public at Odessa Regional Medical Center in Odessa (East Campus Auditorium, 515 N. Adams) - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 8/12: Meet with hospital staff and doctors, the Mayor of Bronte, Commissioners and Civic leaders to discuss health care in Bronte 4:30-5:30 pm - Public town hall meeting on Health Care at Angelo State University, C.J. Davidson Center - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 8/13: Meet with doctors, nurses, and hospital personnel in San Angelo 8/31: 2:30 - 3:30 p.m. - Open heath care town hall meeting in Andrews at the Senior Activity Center - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 9/1: 6:00-7:00 pm - Open health care townhall meeting in Midland/Odessa (Center for Energy & Economics Diversification, 1400 N. FM 1788) - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 9/3: 8:00-9:00 a.m.- Open health care townhall meeting in Fredericksburg - Fredericksburg High School Main Auditorium, 1107 South State Highway 16 - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 10:00-11:00 am - Open health care townhall meeting at Llano Public Library (NEW LOCATION - Lutie Watkins Memorial Methodist Church, Family Life Center, 308 West Main St.) - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! 5:30-6:30 p.m.- Open health care townhall meeting in Brownwood - Brownwood High School Auditorium, 2100 Slayden Street - OPEN TO THE PUBLIC! Meet with doctors, nurses, and hospital personnel in Burnet
07.31.2009	“Opposition to a bill that would endanger lives of U.S. citizens and members of the Armed Forces is both irresponsible and ludicrous. The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to make sure this bill becomes law." share: f t Yesterday, President Barack Obama sent Senators Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) a letter urging Congress to pass the Detainee Photo ban that has been unanimously passed in the Senate and now awaits House action, where it was introduced by Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Heath Shuler (D-NC). The sponsors stated in response to receipt of the letter from the President: “I am very pleased with the President’s strong statement of support for the Lieberman-Graham Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act which would prevent the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in US custody,” said Lieberman. “The President recognized that the Senate has unanimously passed this legislation three times and urged the House to take action because this legislation protects the lives of American troops. As the President eloquently wrote in his letter to us, ‘Nothing would be gained by the release of these photos that matters more than the lives of our young men and women serving in harm’s way.’ I strongly urge my colleagues in the House to heed the President’s call and pass this legislation without delay. The lives of our troops are at stake.” “I hope the House Democratic leadership will support President Obama’s position on prohibiting the release of additional photos and carefully listen to our military commanders who have said unequivocally that these photos will be used by our enemies to inspire additional violence against our troops,” said Graham. “I appreciate the fact that President Obama has decided that additional detainee photos being released will put our troops and other Americans in further jeopardy and will not provide any new information regarding past detainee abuse. I’m hopeful his letter of support will be a major political breakthrough that will ensure passage of our legislation. This is truly a bipartisan effort to protect our troops and I appreciate the leadership of my Democratic and Republican colleagues in the both the House and Senate.” “I stand with our President, the United States Senate, our Secretary of Defense and our commanders on the ground in supporting this bipartisan legislation and it is my fervent hope that my colleagues in the House will decide to as well,” said Conaway. “Opposition to a bill that would endanger lives of U.S. citizens and members of the Armed Forces is both irresponsible and ludicrous. The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to make sure this bill becomes law. The consequences of refusing to enact this legislation are simple: if these photos are released, they will be used by the enemy to provoke violence against Americans and to further recruit insurgents on behalf of a violent anti-American cause. This bill is imperative to the safety of our troops and our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I urge its swift passage in the House.” “While I support government transparency, the risk of endangering our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan by releasing these photos is too high,” said Shuler. “Generals and security experts have said these photos would fan the hatred of extremist groups at a time when tensions already run high in the Middle East.” ####
07.24.2009	As Congress continues its work on Cap & Trade legislation, the EPA is poised to implement an independent carbon cap system unilaterally, without authorization from Congress. The EPA system would fine “major emitters” of carbon dioxide. Those “major emitters” range from individual homes, churches, and especially farms. The impact of this EPA regulation would amount to a tax on every pig or head of cattle. share: f t Representatives Marsha Blackburn (TN-7) and Michael Conaway (TX-11) today filed a discharge petition for HR 391, a bill that would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating “greenhouse gases” under the Clean Air Act. As Congress continues its work on Cap & Trade legislation, the EPA is poised to implement an independent carbon cap system unilaterally, without authorization from Congress. The EPA system would fine “major emitters” of carbon dioxide. Those “major emitters” range from individual homes, churches, and especially farms. The impact of this EPA regulation would amount to a tax on every pig or head of cattle. A discharge petition requires the Speaker to bring a bill to the floor for a vote when a majority of Representatives have signed the petition. “If you share our view that Congress should be the sole authority deciding if greenhouse gasses should be regulated, we urge you to sign the discharge petition,” Blackburn and Conaway said in a letter to their colleagues. Speaking on the prospect of unilateral EPA regulation, Mr. Conaway said, “As evident in the current Cap-and-Tax legislation that passed the House, it is clear that our Democrat colleagues like to raise taxes at every possible chance, but I hope that we can all agree that allowing the EPA to impose regulations and taxes on American people and businesses is absurd. It is not in our best interest to allow the EPA to form policy that will affect the interests of consumers, farmers, and small businesses without the consent of the American people who voice their concerns to their Members of Congress. As of now, the EPA is continuing to implement restrictions that will have a negative impact on our way of life, and we cannot sit idly by and watch as unelected bureaucrats at the EPA impose unnecessary taxes on American people and businesses without the consent of Congress.” “The House and Senate are debating action on carbon regulation. The energy tax they are contemplating is a terrible option, but at least it has been hammered out by elected representatives. What the EPA proposes will have the same disastrous effect on our economy, but it will be managed by unaccountable bureaucrats,” Mrs. Blackburn said.
07.15.2009	WASHINGTON (AP) — House Democrats want to require individuals and employers to get health insurance — or pay a penalty. For individuals, the penalty would be 2.5 percent of income — but it could go no higher than the average cost of health insurance. The penalty for employers would be much higher — 8 percent of a worker's wages — with an exemption for small businesses. Business groups are strongly opposing an employer requirement. The House plan, released Tuesday, lacked total cost figures. House leaders want to quickly move the legislation through three committees and to a floor vote before the congressional recess in August. President Barack Obama is pressing the House and Senate to vote this summer on the bill. share: f t WASHINGTON (AP) — House Democrats want to require individuals and employers to get health insurance — or pay a penalty. For individuals, the penalty would be 2.5 percent of income — but it could go no higher than the average cost of health insurance. The penalty for employers would be much higher — 8 percent of a worker's wages — with an exemption for small businesses. Business groups are strongly opposing an employer requirement. The House plan, released Tuesday, lacked total cost figures. House leaders want to quickly move the legislation through three committees and to a floor vote before the congressional recess in August. President Barack Obama is pressing the House and Senate to vote this summer on the bill. Click here to see a detailed chart of the House Democrats' health plan.
07.09.2009	“The current economic climate places new and acute burdens on Rural America. From the small businesses in communities across District 11, to the farmers and ranchers working every daylight hour, the benefit of broadband can help gain access to, and compete in, a global market. Bridging the broadband divide could send American jobs to rural America - not overseas. This, in turn, would create a sustainable and thriving future for small communities across the country. To achieve that goal, access must be affordable and accessible to people living in rural America." share: f t Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass the Appropriations bill for Agriculture, Rural Development, and the Food and Drug Administration for the fiscal year 2010. Earlier today, a hearing was held in the Agriculture Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture, on which Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) serves as Ranking Member, to review rural broadband programs. Congressman Conaway made this statement following the hearing and passage of the legislation: “The current economic climate places new and acute burdens on Rural America. From the small businesses in communities across District 11, to the farmers and ranchers working every daylight hour, the benefit of broadband can help gain access to, and compete in, a global market. Bridging the broadband divide could send American jobs to rural America - not overseas. This, in turn, would create a sustainable and thriving future for small communities across the country. To achieve that goal, access must be affordable and accessible to people living in rural America. “I have serious concerns about the Non-Discrimination and Interconnection Obligations required of the grant and loan applicants. These new provisions seem to preempt the FCC’s rulemaking procedures and put applicants in a precarious legal quandary when the FCC has yet to rule on definitions for Non-Discrimination and Interconnection. I am concerned that these new requirements will prevent competitive applicants from applying because of the broad ramifications that would be required of the overall network. It seems obvious that the Non-Discrimination and Interconnection Obligations would go against the goals of expanding broadband across the country and providing an economic stimulus to regions of the most need. “It is my fervent hope that broadband programs will be appropriately and effectively funded under the Economic Stimulus, and that Americans living in Rural America will soon have access to affordable and accessible broadband.” Rep. Conaway is a Member of the House Agriculture Committee and serves as Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture.
06.26.2009	“This bill will cause significant harm to our economy, our way of life, and the overall infrastructure over the coming years. The climate is changing; History has proved that. Passage of this bill seems to be driven by the misguided desire by its supporters to hand President Obama an emissions cap that he can use at the Copenhagen world gathering on climate change in December. It will be a great photo-op for him. However, behind the scenes, the leaders of India and China will be laughing at Congress and the President for constricting our own economy with this ill-advised policy." share: f t Today, the House voted to pass H.R. 2647, the Democrat Cap-and-Tax bill, by a vote of 218-212. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made this statement following the passage: “This bill will cause significant harm to our economy, our way of life, and the overall infrastructure over the coming years. The climate is changing; History has proved that. Passage of this bill seems to be driven by the misguided desire by its supporters to hand President Obama an emissions cap that he can use at the Copenhagen world gathering on climate change in December. It will be a great photo-op for him. However, behind the scenes, the leaders of India and China will be laughing at Congress and the President for constricting our own economy with this ill-advised policy. “Proponents of this bill say that man is causing the change in climate. This is simply not true. There are scientists all over the world who argue that new facts are driving a new understanding of climate change. Proponents also say that it will create millions of new ‘green’ jobs. However, the Spanish experiment of almost twelve years proves that for every job created in the ‘green’ world, two jobs were lost. The Spanish experiment also proves that for every ten ‘green’ jobs created, only one of those jobs is permanent. “All of us want to breathe clean air and drink clean water. This bill does nothing to effect these things. It is simply a quest developed by my colleagues on the hard left who want to do away with carbon-based fuels. “There are no benefits to passing this bill. President Obama himself has said that electricity rates will necessarily skyrocket, and that coal, and coal-based power plants will be disadvantaged and jobs will be lost. The cost of this bill is both monetarily high and will reduce our standard of living. I am sorely disappointed that this disastrous legislation passed today, and sincerely hope that the Senate will block this legislation and prevent it from being signed by the President.”
06.25.2009	“I would like to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McKeon for their leadership and many hours of hard work in crafting the National Defense Authorization Act into a bipartisan bill to provide our troops with the key funding needed to succeed in our mission in Iraq and Afghanistan." share: f t Today, the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act by a vote of 389 to 22. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made this statement following the passage: “I would like to thank Chairman Skelton and Ranking Member McKeon for their leadership and many hours of hard work in crafting the National Defense Authorization Act into a bipartisan bill to provide our troops with the key funding needed to succeed in our mission in Iraq and Afghanistan. “I am, however, disappointed as to what is not in this bill. Unfortunately, my colleagues and I were not able to have the opportunity to take a stance on an issue that is very important to the safety of our troops, an amendment that our friends in the Senate voted unanimously in favor of: the release of the detainee photographs to our enemies abroad. “After listening to our commanders on the ground, General Petraeus and General Odierno, President Obama also decided that it is in everyone’s best interest to keep these photos out of the hands of our enemies. These photos will, without a doubt, put American troops in danger, be used as a recruiting tool by Islamic Jihadists, and, in my opinion, could be used by President Ahmadinejad to turn the pro-democracy protests going on in Iran against the United States. “We need a legislative fix that will prevent the release of these photographs into the public arena, and my amendment, which is an exact replica of the one in the Senate, would allow these photos to be properly protected. There is no good reason to release these photographs, and I wish the Rules Committee would have allowed debate on this issue. “With that said, I believe that the support for our men and women in uniform is paramount, and I am pleased that we were able to craft a bipartisan bill that will ensure that their needs are met and the Department of Defense can carry out its mission of ensuring national security.” ###
06.16.2009	Today, the House Armed Services Committee will mark-up the National Defense Authorization Act, which provides funding for our men and women in uniform for the fiscal year. During the mark-up, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) will introduce H.R.2712, the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act of 2009, which will forbid the release of photos of detainee abuse in Iraq and Afghanistan. The language of this bill is a mirror image of the legislation introduced by Senator Lindsay Graham (R-SC) and Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), which passed unanimously in the Senate. share: f t Today, the House Armed Services Committee will mark-up the National Defense Authorization Act, which provides funding for our men and women in uniform for the fiscal year. During the mark-up, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) will introduce H.R.2712, the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act of 2009, which will forbid the release of photos of detainee abuse in Iraq and Afghanistan. The language of this bill is a mirror image of the legislation introduced by Senator Lindsay Graham (R-SC) and Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), which passed unanimously in the Senate. Rep. Conaway made the following statement regarding the legislation: “There are many layers to this issue and Congress has a clear choice; we can allow the voices of moderation in the Arab streets to remain empowered or we can further incite extremism with the release of these photographs. In places like Iran, Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan, the forces of intolerance and extremism are desperately awaiting the release of these photos in order to expand their recruitment efforts and claim vindication for their morally bankrupt ideologies of hate. “By introducing a bill with the same language that the Senate unanimously approved, it is my hope that my colleagues in the House will understand the importance of protecting these photos and include this amendment in the NDAA. Some of my colleagues on the far left, namely Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, oppose language that would forbid the release of the detainee photos. Such opposition is both irresponsible and ludicrous, and puts our troops at extreme risk. These pictures are inflammatory to certain elements of the radical Muslim nations, and to place these pictures in the public arena is extremely dangerous. Our commanders on the ground, General Petraeus and General Odierno, have both made it clear that if these photos are seen by radical Islamic Jihadists, American troops will be killed and the photos will be used by the enemy to provoke violence to further recruit insurgents on behalf of a violent anti-American cause. Today, I stand with our President, the United States Senate, our Secretary of Defense and our commanders on the ground in supporting this legislation and it is my hope that this legislation will be included as an amendment in the National Defense Authorization Act and I urge its expedited passage.” Last week, 47 Members of the House Armed Services Committee stated their support for this legislation. 14 opposed. Click here to listen to my podcast on this issue. ###
06.12.2009	Yesterday, the House Committee on Agriculture held its first hearing on H.R. 2454, the pending climate change legislation introduced by Congressman Henry Waxman (D-CA) and Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA). The Committee heard testimony from the Secretary of Agriculture as well as various representatives of agriculture, energy and environmental-related organizations. A list of witnesses and their testimony can be found on the House Agriculture Committee’s website. share: f t Yesterday, the House Committee on Agriculture held its first hearing on H.R. 2454, the pending climate change legislation introduced by Congressman Henry Waxman (D-CA) and Congressman Ed Markey (D-MA). The Committee heard testimony from the Secretary of Agriculture as well as various representatives of agriculture, energy and environmental-related organizations. A list of witnesses and their testimony can be found on the House Agriculture Committee’s website. “After hours of testimony and questions, it has become increasingly clear that there are still many questions and uncertainties surrounding the Waxman-Markey legislation, particularly as it pertains to agriculture production and rural America, said Conaway. “The Secretary’s continued refusal to respond directly as to how this cap-and-tax proposal would affect Texans and rural America speaks volumes to the need to reassess the assumed problem at hand and Speaker Pelosi’s hurried approach. Hastily moving an over $800 billion national energy tax scheme simply to try and meet an arbitrary deadline set by Speaker Pelosi, without knowing the true effects, will prove to be disastrous to my constituents and our nation’s economy.” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi recently warned Democratic committee chairmen that all committee work on the nearly 1,000 page global warming legislation must be completed by June 19th in order for the full House to consider the legislation before the 4th of July district work period. The massive bill has been referred to six different committees. Yesterday, Chinese government officials announced that they would not agree to any binding cuts regarding their country’s ever-increasing carbon emissions. Also, according to a recent analysis conducted by the Heritage Foundation, the Waxman-Markey legislation would to penalize “farm income by $8 billion in 2012, $25 billion in 2024, and over $50 billion in 2035”. These are decreases of 28%, 60% and 94%. Conaway went on to say, “China’s announcement that they will continue to refuse making significant reductions in their own emissions levels further drives the point home that the United States cannot unilaterally address what is unarguably a global matter. It is indefensible to take such action in an attempt to achieve an objective that is virtually immeasurable, unachievable and contains no tangible benefits, when the result is to penalize American Agriculture. I will continue working to prevent such an illogical approach to global warming in an effort to mitigate the damage Speaker Pelosi seems determined to cast upon rural communities across this country.” Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, serving as the top Republican on the rural development subcommittee
06.11.2009	“Today’s overwhelming, bipartisan support for the Motion to Instruct Conferees is a positive step towards in halting the release of detainee photos that, according to our commanders, Generals Petraeus and Odierno, would further endanger the lives of our men and women currently in combat. This vote should send a clear signal to Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Leadership of the House that any continued action to allow these photos to be released is absolutely unacceptable." share: f t In light of the House overwhelmingly passing the Motion to Instruct Conferees on H.R. 2346, the War Supplemental, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), who is leading the fight on this issue in the House, made the following statement regarding H.R.2712, the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act of 2009: “Today’s overwhelming, bipartisan support for the Motion to Instruct Conferees is a positive step towards in halting the release of detainee photos that, according to our commanders, Generals Petraeus and Odierno, would further endanger the lives of our men and women currently in combat. This vote should send a clear signal to Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Leadership of the House that any continued action to allow these photos to be released is absolutely unacceptable. I strongly urge Speaker Pelosi to fight for the will of the House and insist that the Senate language prohibiting the release of detainee photos be included in the final conference package. Today’s vote clearly shows that protecting our soldiers is not Republican issue or a Democratic issue, it’s a bipartisan issue.” Among other items, the motion passed today instructed the conference committee to recede to the Senate amendment that prohibits the release of specific detainee photographs in the event that the Secretary of Defense certifies, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that the disclosure of photographs that would endanger citizens of the United States or members of the Armed Forces. The motion passed 267-152 with 95 democrats joining 172 republicans in voting yes (Roll Call 329). Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) is a member of both the House Armed Services and Intelligence Committees. ###
06.10.2009	The stimulus bill was an imperfect policy approach to economic policy, with an unprecedented increase in the size and cost of government. However, now that it is in place, it is incumbent upon Congress to ensure that when the Obama Administration spends the more than one trillion dollars authorized by the stimulus bill, that it is directed to the areas with the greatest impact. share: f t This morning, the Subcommittee on Rural Development, Biotechnology, Specialty Crops, and Foreign Agriculture held a hearing to review rural development programs operated by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement after the hearing: “The stimulus bill was an imperfect policy approach to economic policy, with an unprecedented increase in the size and cost of government. However, now that it is in place, it is incumbent upon Congress to ensure that when the Obama Administration spends the more than one trillion dollars authorized by the stimulus bill, that it is directed to the areas with the greatest impact. “The witnesses from USDA testified that the money is being spent on proposals in the backlog of projects in the order of the date the proposal was received. I find it extremely troubling that the USDA is pursuing a FIFO (first-in, first-out) approach that may disadvantage new and emerging issues in rural America. I strongly encourage USDA to pursue a funding allocation system that allows the agency to take a fresh look at issues. Simply funding a backlog of requests while ignoring important considerations, such as community urgency, will ultimately lead to wasteful spent on behalf of the American taxpayer. “As ranking member of the Rural Development subcommittee, I will closely monitor the disbursement of stimulus funds in an attempt to ensure that taxpayer dollars are allocated in a responsible manner. My aim is to keep the interests of rural America, Texas and Texans at the forefront and not allow the uncalculated and seemingly effortless decision-making process of bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. to prevail.” Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) is a member of the House Agriculture Committee.
06.09.2009	Late last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced H.R.2712, the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act of 2009. This bill comes on the heels of top Democrats in the House of Representatives threatening to eliminate language preventing the release of the detainee photos. The language was inserted via amendment by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), in the Senate to the supplemental war spending bill and was unanimously approved. Senators Graham and Lieberman have stated that they will halt all legislative action in the Senate until Congress passes legislation forbidding the release of photos of detainee abuse in Iraq and Afghanistan. share: f t Late last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced H.R.2712, the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act of 2009. This bill comes on the heels of top Democrats in the House of Representatives threatening to eliminate language preventing the release of the detainee photos. The language was inserted via amendment by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), in the Senate to the supplemental war spending bill and was unanimously approved. Senators Graham and Lieberman have stated that they will halt all legislative action in the Senate until Congress passes legislation forbidding the release of photos of detainee abuse in Iraq and Afghanistan. Rep. Conaway made the following statement regarding the legislation: “It appears that some of my colleagues on the far left in the House may oppose language that would forbid the release of the detainee photos, in the event it is determined that the photos would endanger lives of U.S. citizen and members of the Armed Forces. Such opposition is both irresponsible and ludicrous. The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to make sure this bill becomes law. The consequences of refusing to enact this legislation are simple: if these photos are released, they will be used by the enemy to provoke violence against Americans and to further recruit insurgents on behalf of a violent anti-American cause. “I strongly believe that when addressing matters regarding our nation’s men and women in uniform, we must listen to our commanders on the ground. General Petraeus and General Odiero have said without hesitation that if these photos are released, it would result in additional risks for our troops and ultimately more casualties. How, under any circumstance, could my colleagues in the House listen to our commanders on the ground and still think these photos should be released? It is preposterous, dangerous, and utterly irresponsible. “Today, I stand with our President, the United States Senate, our Secretary of Defense and our commanders on the ground in supporting this legislation and it is my fervent hope that my colleagues in the House will decide to as well. It is my hope that Senators Graham and Lieberman are able to retain this language in the war supplemental, however in the event that they are not, I stand ready to offer this language in the form of an amendment in the National Defense Authorization Act.”
06.03.2009	Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Gene Green (D-TX) today announced that they have added their 219th cosponsor of House Concurrent Resolution 49, the Local Radio Freedom Act of 2009. H.Con.Res. 49 now has the support of over half the House of Representatives. share: f t Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Gene Green (D-TX) today announced that they have added their 219th cosponsor of House Concurrent Resolution 49, the Local Radio Freedom Act of 2009. H.Con.Res. 49 now has the support of over half the House of Representatives. “The system in place today fairly compensates everyone. For 80 years, Congress has recognized that and has not imposed performance fees on local radio stations,” said Green. “The free promotion record labels and performers receive from radio airplay drives album and concert sales, which results in compensation for performers and record labels.” Record labels and performers have prospered from the free airplay provided by local broadcasters. This free airplay is estimated to reach 232 million listeners a week, and the recording industry enjoys increased popularity, visibility and record sales. 85 percent of listeners of all audio services identify radio as the place they first heard music that they purchased. “I am pleased that my colleagues understand the importance of protecting our local radio and rural communities by cosponsoring this legislation,” said Conaway. “Local radio provides an invaluable service in the community by relaying important weather information, national emergency information and important news that will affect the community. This “performance fee” would place an unnecessary and devastating burden on the small local broadcasters and will inevitably hurt our communities. By securing 219 cosponsors, we have guaranteed the continued protection of local radio in the 111th Congress.” In March, the House Judiciary Committee on May 13 approved H.R. 848, The Performance Rights Act, which would require stations to pay a fee for the music they broadcast free of charge. This legislation would allow the Copyright Royalty Board tax free, over‐the‐air local music radio stations as it has done to Internet‐based streaming radio. Like other industries, radio stations are struggling in the current economic climate and imposing new fees at this point could force many small, minority-owned, and Spanish language radio stations out of business. For some communities, like the Hispanic community, local radio stations are sometimes the only link between them and vital local information and community news. “I cannot say enough about the benefits local radio provides constituents in our district in Houston and Harris Country, Texas,” said Green. Local radio provides Amber Alerts, local news and weather and vital Gulf Coast emergency alerts. “When we experienced Hurricane Ike in Southeast Texas last September power was out across southeast Texas and battery-powered radios and televisions were our only sources of news and emergency information. A performance tax would hurt local radio stations that provide these vital services.”
05.21.2009	“I am extremely proud of these fine young men and women for all of their hard work and determination to make their dreams of serving our country a reality,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “Each one of these young men and women are highly capable, and has a real, sincere desire to receive a commission and serve in the military services of our great country. It takes a special individual to go through the highly competitive process of receiving a nomination, and I am confident that these students will excel in the challenging academics and physical demands that make our nation’s military academies so prestigious.” share: f t After a lengthy and long nomination process, six young men and women from District 11 were appointed to military academies for the class of 2013. “I am extremely proud of these fine young men and women for all of their hard work and determination to make their dreams of serving our country a reality,” said Congressman Mike Conaway. “Each one of these young men and women are highly capable, and has a real, sincere desire to receive a commission and serve in the military services of our great country. It takes a special individual to go through the highly competitive process of receiving a nomination, and I am confident that these students will excel in the challenging academics and physical demands that make our nation’s military academies so prestigious.” Below is a list of the individuals from District 11 who were appointed to the various academies: Benjamin Charles Bertelson (Midland) – Benjamin has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Isaiah E. Hickman – Isaiah’s father is a Department of Army Education Services Officer stationed in Germany. Isaiah will graduate from General H. H. Arnold High School in Germany, and has accepted an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Tyler Shane Lamb – Tyler’s father is stationed at the U.S. Army War College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. Tyler will graduate from Carlisle High School and has accepted an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Daniel Ross McClellan (San Angelo) – Daniel will graduate from San Angelo Central High School, and has accepted an appointment to the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. Kinder Nicole McCullough (Midland) – Kinder has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Joseph Aaron Webster (San Angelo) – Joseph will graduate from San Angelo Central High School and has accepted an appointment to the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. For more information on the US Military Academy nomination process, please contact Joanne Powell in the office of Congressman Mike Conaway at 325.659.4010 or Joanne.powell@mail.house.gov.
05.19.2009	Today Rep. Ike Skelton (D-MO), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and Ranking Member John McHugh (R-NY), along with Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ) and Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), announce the signing of a conference agreement on the Weapon Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009. share: f t “I thank my colleagues for their hard work on producing this important piece of legislation, and I look forward to watching the President sign this bill,” Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) said. “Reforming the system we use to buy major weapon systems is not only good for taxpayers, it’s good for the security of our nation.” “Too often under the current system, we end up with too few weapons that cost us too much and arrive too late. This leads to shortfalls on the battlefield that can cost lives. That is why it is so important that our defense budget is spent in the most effective ways possible. While this bill does not mean the end of our efforts to reform the defense acquisition system, it is an important and essential step,” concluded Skelton. “Working with our Senate colleagues, we’ve reached a solid final product that builds on the strengths of both bills while ensuring the Secretary of Defense maintains adequate flexibility within his organization,” said Ranking Member John McHugh (R-NY). “I commend Senators McCain and Levin, along with Chairman Skelton, Rep. Conaway, and Rep. Andrews, for their hard work in producing the final legislation. Hopefully, both chambers can approve the conference report and move it to the President for his signature within the coming days.” "I applaud Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McHugh and Rep. Conaway for their leadership on this bill “Likewise, Chairman Levin and Ranking Member McCain should be praised for their vision and leadership on this landmark legislation, which will reform Defense spending and limit Pentagon cost overruns before they spiral out of control.” Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ) added. “The bill’s overwhelming bipartisan support is living proof not only that our legislative process still works but that the well-being of our men and women in uniform must be a priority.” “While cost overruns reached $300 billion over the last decade, these wasted funds could have paid America’s troops and provided benefits for their families for more than 2 years,” Andrews concluded. “I am proud to work with House and Senate leaders on this plan that maintains our national security while limiting undue financial waste and burden on the American taxpayers.” “I am pleased that this important piece of legislation was able to be compromised swiftly with our colleagues in the Senate and will now move to the President’s desk after both Houses approve it this week,” Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) commented. “This bill will help ensure that Americans are safer by acquiring necessary weapons systems at a reasonable cost, and will reign in unnecessary spending by the Department of Defense. I want to applaud the leadership in both the House and the Senate, as well as Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McHugh, and Rep. Andrews for their leadership and hard work on making this legislation a reality.”
05.13.2009	House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO), Ranking Member John M. McHugh (R-NY), Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ) and Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) today praised the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage of H.R. 2101, the Weapons Acquisition System reform Through Enhancing Technical Knowledge and Oversight Act. The legislation was approved in the House by a vote of 428 to 0. share: f t House Armed Services Committee Chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO), Ranking Member John M. McHugh (R-NY), Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ) and Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) today praised the U.S. House of Representatives’ passage of H.R. 2101, the Weapons Acquisition System reform Through Enhancing Technical Knowledge and Oversight Act. The legislation was approved in the House by a vote of 428 to 0. A section-by-section analysis of the legislation is attached. “The WASTE TKO Act is an important first step to rein in out of control cost growth in the development of major weapons programs, and I’m proud that our bipartisan bill gained the overwhelming support of the House. I look forward to working with our Senate colleagues in conference so we can send a bill to the President as soon as possible,” Chairman Skelton said. “The passage of this legislation is an important step toward reforming the process for how the Department of Defense acquires major weapons systems. We look forward to working with our colleagues in the Senate to quickly conference and move the final legislation to the President,” said Ranking Member McHugh. “I appreciate Chairman Skelton for collaborating so closely with me on this effort and the hard work of our Defense Acquisition Reform Panel. I have absolute confidence that these members, which are ably led by Mike Conaway and Rob Andrews, will continue in their endeavors and provide the Armed Services Committee with a number of additional recommendations in the coming months.” “I applaud Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McHugh and Rep. Conaway for their leadership on the WASTE TKO Act. This bill will help stop the Department of Defense from wasting taxpayer dollars through endless cost growth in weapons programs. The WASTE TKO Act will also ensure that we get the weapons capabilities we need to keep America safe at reasonable cost. Passage of this legislation is an essential step at a time when the federal budget, including defense spending, must be brought under control. I look forward to continuing our work on the Defense Acquisition Reform Panel and finding solutions for the other 80 percent of the defense acquisition process that will continue saving precious taxpayer dollars,” said Representative Andrews. “I am pleased that this bipartisan legislation has passed the House, and am proud of what this important bill will do for the Department of Defense and our men and women in uniform. This bill provides necessary oversight early in product development to proactively avoid costly mistakes and sub-par performance, allowing more informed decisions to be made and greater ability to review alternative program solutions throughout the process without adding unnecessary layers of bureaucracy. I want to thank Chairman Skelton, Ranking Member McHugh and Chairman Andrews for their leadership and dedication to this bill,” Representative Conaway said.
05.11.2009	This past Saturday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition at Midland College in Midland, Texas. Sara Slaughter, a Goldthwaite High School freshman, was awarded first place with her drawing, “Forever in His Presence". “Every year I continue to be impressed by the immense level of artistic talent that the young artists in District 11 present in the Congressional Art Competition,” said Conaway. “We had 32 entries from high schools across District 11, and the work that the students put forward was extraordinary. I want to congratulate Sara on winning the art competition with her wonderful drawing. This is a huge accomplishment and for the next year, her work will hang inside the Capitol for members of Congress and thousands of visitors to see.” Ms. Slaughter's artwork will be sent to Washington, DC to be hung in the Cannon Tunnel, a walkway inside the U.S. Capitol Building. This walkway is used by Members of Congress, congressional staff, and the general public as they enter the Capitol. The annual exhibit represents the combined efforts of Members of Congress, students, and teachers who encourage their students to enter the competition. The winning art entry from each District is displayed in the Capitol for one year. The panel of judges consisted of Susan Randle, Carol Bailey, and Karen Lanier. Sara will receive complimentary framing for her entry, three complimentary airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the opening of the exhibit in Washington, DC, as well as two nights lodging. Second place was awarded to Brittany Baily from Odessa Permian High School with her work, "Ode to Lichtenstein #6". Third place went to Cynna Guerrero of Midland High School for her work entitled, "Forest". Fourth place went to Charity Cagle of Mullin High School for her piece entitled, "Collage of Recycled Materials", and Honorable Mention was awarded to Maxine Estrada of Robert E. Lee High School for her work, "What a Touch". With the artists’ permission, the other winners artwork will be hung in Congressman Conaway’s offices throughout the District 11 for the next year.
05.06.2009	On Monday, May 11, 2009, Congressman Mike Conaway, in conjunction with the Midland and Odessa Chambers of Commerce, will hold a ‘Cap-and Trade Small Business Forum’ to discuss the adverse effects that a cap-and-trade tax would have on small businesses in West Texas. There will be four small business owners testifying at the forum. share: f t On Monday, May 11, 2009, Congressman Mike Conaway, in conjunction with the Midland and Odessa Chambers of Commerce, will hold a ‘Cap-and Trade Small Business Forum’ to discuss the adverse effects that a cap-and-trade tax would have on small businesses in West Texas. There will be four small business owners testifying at the forum. “I am looking forward to visiting with the small business owners at this forum,” said Conaway. “As a former small business owner myself, I know the adverse effects that this harmful legislation will impose on family-owned and local businesses. It is imperative that we get the word out and make our President and the leaders in Congress aware of our concerns. The Democrat's cap-and-tax plan will lead to more taxes, fewer jobs, and more government invasion. This is an irresponsible proposal that will do more harm than good, and I encourage citizens in the area to come out and participate.” What: Cap-and-Trade Small Business Forum When: Monday, May 11, 2009 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Where: CEED Building 1400 North FM 1788 Midland, TX 79706 *Press is encouraged to attend*
04.29.2009	“I want the citizens of District 11 to be as informed as possible about the current H1N1 influenza outbreak and of the ways they can take action to reduce the possibility of its spreading further. Infectious disease outbreaks such as this are unpredictable and officials expect that the current influenza situation will be fluid as more is learned about this new virus." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway made the following statement in response to the current H1N1 flu outbreak: “I want the citizens of District 11 to be as informed as possible about the current H1N1 influenza outbreak and of the ways they can take action to reduce the possibility of its spreading further. Infectious disease outbreaks such as this are unpredictable and officials expect that the current influenza situation will be fluid as more is learned about this new virus. “As of now, it is unknown if the current H1N1 influenza strain could cause a pandemic. However, the potential exists and it is advisable that everyone take the time to review their plans for public health emergencies and be aware of any new developments regarding the current situation. “I have reached out to the hospitals in the 11th District to ensure that they have all the information and tools at their disposal to be as informed and prepared as possible.” For more information on the H1N1 flu and what you can do to stay healthy, please visit http://cdc.gov/swineflu/. To see the H1N1 flu report issued by Texas’ Department of State Health Services, visit www.dshs.state.tx.us/swineflu. ###
04.24.2009	– Today Rep. Ike Skelton (D-MO), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and Ranking Member John M. McHugh (R-NY), along with Rep. Rob Andrews (D-NJ) and Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), announced that they would be introducing the Weapons Acquisition System reform Through Enhancing Technical Knowledge and Oversight (the WASTE TKO Act). share: f t "I am very pleased to introduce this legislation that will inject greater efficiency into the weapons acquisition system and truly ensure we get the most bang for our taxpayer buck,” Chairman Skelton said. “Our bipartisan proposal contributes many good ideas to the defense acquisition reform effort. I look forward to working with our Senate colleagues to work through our differences and generate a final product that enacts the best ideas in both bills.” “Our effort officially adds a Committee voice to the conversation about reforming the Pentagon’s system for acquiring weapons. We know from experience that the sins which cause cost overruns are generally created in the initial stages of the acquisition process. This legislation properly reforms and increases focus on the early stages of that system, requiring the evaluation of alternative solutions at more critical points and independent oversight earlier in the process,” Ranking Member McHugh said. “We look forward to continuing to work with our colleagues to enact meaningful reform in the Department of Defense.” “Congress has recently learned that the Department of Defense is wasting taxpayer dollars through the way it buys weapons,” added Representative Andrews. “This bill reduces wasteful Defense spending and helps to ensure that the taxpayer dollars are maximized when buying the best weapons to keep America safe.” “This bill will provide necessary oversight early in product development to proactively avoid costly mistakes and sub-par performance. Through the appointment of independent officials to review acquisition programs, more informed decisions will be made and there will be greater ability to review alternative program solutions throughout the process, without adding unnecessary additional layers of bureaucracy. I am looking forward to continue working with my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee to ensure that this bill gets to the House floor and gets the recognition it deserves,” Representative Mike Conaway concluded.
04.22.2009	Last night, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced the Savings in Appropriations Act in the House of Representatives. This resolution amends the rules of the House to allow Members of Congress to offer budget reducing amendments to general appropriations bills and, in turn, will reduce the deficit or increase the surplus. share: f t Last night, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced the Savings in Appropriations Act in the House of Representatives. This resolution amends the rules of the House to allow Members of Congress to offer budget reducing amendments to general appropriations bills and, in turn, will reduce the deficit or increase the surplus. “Washington has a spending problem. As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to evaluate the spending process and ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent wisely – or not at all,” said Conaway. “If Congress considers a program or earmark in an appropriations bill unworthy of federal funding, those funds should not be spent and thereby used to reduce the deficit.” Under current House Rules, Members of Congress cannot introduce an amendment to an appropriations bill with instructions to reduce funding for a program and redirect that funding to deficit reduction. Some Members of Congress are dissatisfied with the current process and are upset that successful efforts to eliminate funds for certain projects do not reduce the deficit, but result in that money being added for other programs. This legislation would give the Congress the flexibility to revisit decisions on the total amount of discretionary spending as each appropriations bill is debated on the House Floor. Conaway went on to say, “This is a modest proposal that will lead to substantial results in the future. Congress should make responsible spending decisions and make reducing the deficit a top priority.”
04.02.2009	Today, the Democrat-lead House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2010 budget by a vote of 233 to 196. This budget blueprint imposes the five largest deficits in U.S. history, growing the national debt to $17.1 trillion in five years. That means our debt will double in five years and triple in ten years. The new budget also starts the process of enacting job-killing global warming legislation under the proposed “cap and tax” and starts us down the road to a government-run health care system. share: f t Today, the Democrat-lead House of Representatives passed the fiscal year 2010 budget by a vote of 233 to 196. This budget blueprint imposes the five largest deficits in U.S. history, growing the national debt to $17.1 trillion in five years. That means our debt will double in five years and triple in ten years. The new budget also starts the process of enacting job-killing global warming legislation under the proposed “cap and tax” and starts us down the road to a government-run health care system. The Democrat Majority struck down a Republican alternative budget supported by Congressman Conaway that would have cut the Obama/Democratic deficits in half by 2019 and lowered the debt held by the public by $3.6 trillion. The Republican alternative would have also created 2.1 million more new jobs than the Democrat’s plan. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the Democrat’s budget passed: “America’s future is at risk because of proposed out of control Washington spending. I supported the Republican alternative budget because I believe we can fulfill the mission of health and retirement security without burdening our children and grandchildren with an unsustainable debt. Paying for this temporary recession with our children’s and grandchildren’s money is fiscal abuse that I will not support. Obama and the Democrats are setting this nation on a path towards European-style socialized government, removing incentives for individual achievement and relinquishing our natural rights and freedoms.” Rep. Conaway represents the 11th District of Texas and is a CPA. ###
03.25.2009	Today, Congressman Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 1682, the “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2009.” “The bridge collapses and closures should be a wakeup call for lawmakers,” said Conaway. “Our nation’s infrastructure is crumbling due to improper planning, negligence and inadequate management at all levels of governments.” The “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2009” sets new standards for bridges that receive federal funding by requiring the states to strictly define the preservation of structures in the bridge maintenance plan and develop corrosion mitigation and prevention measures for all bridges undergoing repair, rehabilitation or construction. share: f t Today, Congressman Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 1682, the “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2009.” “The bridge collapses and closures should be a wakeup call for lawmakers,” said Conaway. “Our nation’s infrastructure is crumbling due to improper planning, negligence and inadequate management at all levels of governments.” The “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2009” sets new standards for bridges that receive federal funding by requiring the states to strictly define the preservation of structures in the bridge maintenance plan and develop corrosion mitigation and prevention measures for all bridges undergoing repair, rehabilitation or construction. The states must ensure all designers, inspectors and maintenance individuals are certified in corrosion mitigation and prevention techniques. States must also develop a project maintenance program that must contain expected useful life of the bridge and details of corrosion mitigation and prevention methods in construction and maintenance of the bridge. Conaway went on to say, “The ongoing cost of corrosion on US bridges represents a needless waste of taxpayer dollars. It is my hope that my colleagues understand the importance of taking a proactive initiative and pass this important legislation. We cannot ignore the fact that lives have been lost due to past negligence, and more will be if we don’t address our nation’s aging infrastructure.” On August 2, 2007, the Interstate 35 bridge in Minneapolis collapsed, killing 13 people and injuring 125. The bridge had been found in “poor” condition for 17 consecutive years before the collapse. ###
03.24.2009	Today, Congressman Conaway along with Congressman Marion Berry and over fifty other Members of the House of Representatives sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Budget Committee expressing strong opposition regarding the proposed cuts to the 2008 Farm Bill put forth by the Obama Administration. Following delivery of the letter Congressman Conaway made the following statement: “President Obama’s budget recklessly dismantles the agreement of the 2008 Farm Bill. Farmers, ranchers and rural America deserve the sense of certainty and predictability provided in last year’s authorization. It is inappropriate to make structural changes to the 2008 Farm Bill in the FY 2010 budget resolution. Midstream reductions to the farm safety net would breach the commitment made to farmers and ranchers and unhinge long term business decisions that impact prices on food and fiber. This letter demonstrates the broad bipartisan commitment Congress has to affordable food and fiber.” Congressman Conaway has served as a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture since being elected to office in 2004.
03.19.2009	“Three wrongs don’t make a right. These bonuses would not have been paid had the stimulus bill not included Senator Dodd’s amendment, which was slipped in behind closed doors, to allow TARP money to be paid out in bonuses." share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass legislation that would tax AIG employees at 90% to retract the contractual bonuses that were paid. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made this statement following today’s vote: “Three wrongs don’t make a right. These bonuses would not have been paid had the stimulus bill not included Senator Dodd’s amendment, which was slipped in behind closed doors, to allow TARP money to be paid out in bonuses. Now the Democrat’s are trying to cover their tracks by enacting a vengeful 90% tax on AIG employees. The American people deserve, and should demand, to get 100% of their hard-earned tax dollars back, but we have to find a legal way to achieve this goal. Article I, Section 9 of the US Constitution specifically blocks Congress from enacting a law that effect only one person or group. Therefore, this bill is a direct violation of the U.S. Constitution. The third wrong is the use of the Internal Revenue code as a weapon and in retaliation sets a precedent that I cannot support. “We have loaned AIG $164 Billion and we expect to be repaid with interest. I am offended, like many of the constituents of District 11, that the money was loaned without the proper restrictions on the use of the proceeds. I find it incredulous that the contractual bonus plan did not provide for overall restrictions on amounts paid out when the company is losing money. “In contrast to this political theater, we should take appropriate steps such as forcing bankruptcy or ‘court ordered receivership’ that are legal and that do not violate the clear terms of the Constitution and that still meet our objectives.” Rep. Conaway is a Certified Public Accountant.
03.12.2009	Bono's statement comes as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) continues to press Congress to pass legislation that would require local radio stations to pay a new fee for music aired free to listeners. Countering the RIAA-backed legislation is the Local Radio Freedom Act, H. Con. Res. 49, which opposes "any new performance fee, tax, royalty, or other charge" on local radio stations. The Local Radio Freedom Act, introduced by Reps. Gene Green (TX-29) and Mike Conaway (TX-11) has the support of a bipartisan group of 144 House lawmakers. share: f t The promotional power of local radio received another resounding endorsement this week -- this time from U2 lead singer Bono. The Grammy-winning band from Ireland recently held a free concert in Boston to promote their new album. Speaking with a WHDH-TV Boston news reporter, Bono explained why they chose to hold the free concert in Boston. "It's worth remembering that U2, you know we broke in the United States through Boston and through radio stations like BCN and stuff like that," Bono said, referring to Boston rock station WBCN-FM. "We depend on radio," he continued. To watch video from WHDH-TV's interview, visit the station's Web site, and click "Watch the video." Bono's statement comes as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) continues to press Congress to pass legislation that would require local radio stations to pay a new fee for music aired free to listeners. Countering the RIAA-backed legislation is the Local Radio Freedom Act, H. Con. Res. 49, which opposes "any new performance fee, tax, royalty, or other charge" on local radio stations. The Local Radio Freedom Act, introduced by Reps. Gene Green (TX-29) and Mike Conaway (TX-11) has the support of a bipartisan group of 144 House lawmakers. "Congress should not impose any new performance fee, tax, royalty, or other charge relating to the public performance of sound recordings on a local radio station for broadcasting sound recordings over-the-air, or on any business for such public performance of sound recordings," reads H. Con. Res. 49. On numerous occasions, both record label executives and artists have recognized the promotional value of free radio airplay. Such statements include: "I think back over the years now, and it's amazing how much of my life has been impacted by radio people." -- Brad Paisley, speaking during an interview with Radio Ink's Brida Connolly, February, 2009 "Let me tell you four letters that mean a whole lot to me. Four letters that have changed the course of my career. Four letters out of 26. W-Y-C-D." -- John Rich, Big and Rich, speaking on stage during the station's "Ten Man Jam" concert, February, 2009 "Thank You Radio!! 4 Grammy Awards Last Night!!!" -- Lil Wayne in an email sent to radio stations across the country the day after he received four Grammy Awards, February 9, 2009 "It’s mainly radio, actually. I’ll hear a song, very often in the car, and buy the CD." -- Paul McCartney on where he finds new music. Entertainment Weekly, February 5, 2009 "I was homeless for about a year and I went back to singing, 'cause that's what I grew up doing with my dad as a child. We made our money by bar-singing. So I was looking for a place to sing, and it was my own material. And after about a year of being homeless and doing that, a radio station played one of my songs on the air -- a bootleg. I didn't have any demos. I wasn't trying to get signed. But a record label heard it, and all the sudden it was like being Cinderella. Limousines started showing up." -- Jewel, Grammy-nominated recording artist, NBC's 'Today,' September 2008 "Alright, let's talk about the nuts and bolts. If you win 'Nashville Star', you have to get on 200 major market radio stations. You have to." -- John Rich, Big and Rich, 'Nashville Star,' July 2008 "I love a strong radio hit. ... That's what our job is, to have a radio hit. Without radio, we couldn't do what we do, but the job is to have a radio hit that sounds unique, and like you." -- Jewel, Grammy-nominated recording artist, 'Nashville Star,' July 2008 "I have to thank... every DJ, every radio guy, every promotions guy, everybody who ever put up a poster for me and spread the word." -- Alicia Keys, recording artist and Grammy winner, 2008 Grammy Awards, February 2008 "[R]adio remains the best way to get new music into the listeners' lives." --Sony BMG Executive VP Butch Waugh as quoted in Radio & Records, January 11 "[R]adio is the conduit to the people, the voice of the format and the lifestyle's soundtrack. -Sony BMG Nashville VP of Marketing Tom Baldrica, as quoted in Radio & Records, January 11 "Obviously, radio is probably the most important thing for a new rock band coming out. If you don't get yourself on the radio, then you won't draw bodies at the clubs and you won't sell records." -- 'Another Animal' drummer Shannon Larkin, Drum Magazine, 2008 "Country radio, thank you so much for being our mouthpiece. You know what we do means nothing if it never gets played, and no one gets to hear it." -- 'Rascal Flatts,' Vocal Group of the Year, Country Music Awards, 2007 "I can't even believe that this is real... I want to thank country radio. I'll never forget the chance you took on me." -- Taylor Swift, Horizon Award (for best new artist), Country Music Awards, 2007 "I have yet to see the big reaction you want to see to a hit until it goes on the radio. I'm a big, big fan of radio." --Richard Palmese, Executive Vice President of Promotion, RCA, 2007 "Radio has proven itself time and time again to be the biggest vehicle to expose new music." -- Ken Lane, Senior Vice President for Promotion, Island Def Jam Music Group, 2005 "It is clearly the number one way that we're getting our music exposed. Nothing else affects retail sales the way terrestrial radio does." --Tom Biery, Senior Vice President for Promotion, Warner Bros. Records, 2005 "That's the most important thing for a label, getting your records played." -- Eddie Daye, recording artist, 2003 "Radio helped me a lot. That's the audience. I can't see them, but I know they're there. I can't reach out and touch them with my hand, but I know they're there." -- B.B. King, recording artist, 2002 "If a song's not on the radio, it'll never sell." -- Mark Wright, Senior Vice President, MCA Records, 2001 "Air play is king. They play the record, it sells. If they don't, it's dead in the water." -- Jim Mazza, President, Dreamcatcher Entertainment, 1999 "I am so grateful to radio. Their support has truly changed my life, and I hope they know how appreciative I am for that." -- Jo Dee Messina, recording artist, 1999
03.11.2009	The following projects recieved funding in the FY2009 spending bill for District 11: •In the Bureau of Reclamation, Water and Related Resources--Rural Water account, $109,000 for improvements to an irrigation canal in Tom Green County, Texas was included on my behalf. The entity to receive funding for this project is the Tom Green County Water Control Improvement District No. 1, which operates and maintains the canal and can be reached at P.O. Box 488, Veribest, Texas, 76886. The canal is 16 miles long and runs northeast from the city of San Angelo, Texas. The funding will be used to complete repairs and upgrade the canals water control systems to help better distribute and conserve water, as recommended in a 2007 report by the Bureau of Reclamation. •In the Army Corps of Engineers, Investigations account, $406,000 for a study in the Lower Colorado River Basin of Texas was included on my behalf. The entity to receive funding for this project is the Lower Colorado River Authority which can be reached at P.O. Box 220, Austin, Texas, 78767. The study area is bounded by the Guadalupe, Lavaca, and Colorado-Lavaca river basins on the west, and the Brazos and Brazos-Colorado basins on the east. This study is investigating water resource problems, needs, and opportunities, to determine whether improvements for flood risk management, ecosystem restoration and protection, water quality, water supply and allied purposes have a Federal interest. The funding will be used to complete the Williamson Creek study and continue other interim feasibility studies within the basin. •In the Army Corps of Engineers, Operations and Maintenance account, $842,000 for the O. C. Fisher Dam and Lake, Texas was included on my behalf The entity to receive funding for this project is Army Corps of Engineers Fort Worth District. The project is located in Tom Green County, on the North Concho River, near the City of San Angelo, Texas. The funding will be used to for operations and routine maintenance. •In the Army Corps of Engineers, Operations and Maintenance account, $2,000,000 for Proctor Lake, Texas was included on my behalf. The entity to receive funding for this project is Army Corps of Engineers Fort Worth District. The project is located in Comanche County on the Leon River, about eight miles northeast of the city of Comanche, Texas. The funding will be used to for operations, routine maintenance, and to replace and repair piezometers. •In the Army Corps of Engineers, Operations and Maintenance account, $1,373,000 for Hords Creek Lake, Texas was included on my behalf. The entity to receive funding for this project is Army Corps of Engineers Fort Worth District. The project is located in Coleman County about 13 miles west of the city of Coleman, Texas. The funding will be used to for operations, routine maintenance, and to upgrade hydraulic pumps and controls for flood gates. •In the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES) account funding in the amount of $206,000 for Animal Fiber Research. The entity to receive funding for this project is Texas A&M University. The project is located at 7887, U.S. Highway 87N, San Angelo, Texas, 76901. The funding will be used to increase profitability of the sheep and goat industries in the United States and Texas while providing U.S. consumers and the military with high-quality animal fibers and meat at internationally competitive prices. Emphasis will be placed on improving wool quality and increasing wool production and also on multi-state collaborations in which sheep and goats will be used to improve rangeland environments through prescribed grazing of invasive species. •In the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES), Special Research Grants account funding in the amount of $946,000 for the Center for Food Industry Excellence. The entity to receive funding for this project is Texas Tech University, located in Lubbock, Texas. The funding will be used to conduct systematic development and evaluation of production, processing, and preparation methods of food products (from farm to table) to achieve a safer and more nutritious food supply. •In the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES) account, to provide partial funding in the amount of $693,000 for Center for North American Studies. Funding for this project will go directly to Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas. This funding will assist in the continued development of the center. The focus is to further expand activities in education and training, research policy analysis, and cooperative study as related to trade issues. •In the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES), Special Research Grants account, funding in the amount of $1,730,000 for the International Cotton Center. The entity to receive funding for this project is Texas Tech University, located in Lubbock, Texas. The funding will be used to support several research projects investigating means of increasing the profitability and sustainability of cotton and other natural fiber production through the development of new uses for cotton fiber among others. •In the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES) account, funding in the amount of $3,220,000 for the Efficient Irrigation program (both research and extension arms). The entity to receive funding for this project is Texas A&M University. The funding will be used to provide resources for research, training, education, and technical assistance to agricultural and municipal water system operators, teaching them about irrigation system efficiency and about reducing biological and chemical hazards through alternative treatment of water and wastewater. •In the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) account, to provide partial funding in the amount of $515,000 for the Great Plains Sorghum Improvement and Utilization Center. Funding for this project will go directly to Kansas State in Manhattan, Kansas. This funding will be used to continue to integrate the efforts among the three institutions to develop a series of multi-institutional and multidisciplinary teams that bring together new technologies and knowledge that focus on improvement of profitability in each stage of sorghum production, processing and marketing. •In the Department of Education, Higher Education account, to provide funding in the amount of $285,000 for Midland College in Midland, TX for technology upgrades, including purchase of equipment. The funding would be used to for the purchase of new computers, specialized software and multi-media projector equipment as part of the ongoing technology upgrade program. The Advanced Technology Center (ATC), operated by Midland College, offers a wide range of programs that are used by students from elementary schools, high schools and colleges seeking to learn computer and other technical skills, by workers upgrading their skills to retain their jobs or get new ones, by businesses who are training employees, and by individuals. •In the Department of Education, Higher Education account, to provide funding in the amount of $95,000 for the Midland Independent School District, located at 615 W. Missouri Ave., Midland, TX for a teacher training initiative in conjunction with Texas Mathworks. Texas Mathworks is a center for mathematics education formed by Texas State University System to develop model programs and self-sustaining learning communities that engage Texas K-12 students in doing mathematics at a high level. Texas Mathworks proves to be an effective model for engaging and retaining students' interest in math and science, enabling teachers to effectively teach it at the highest levels. •In the Department of Education, Elementary & Secondary Education (includes FIE) account, to provide funding in the amount of $143,000 for the Wallace Accelerated High School, located at 149 S. Hwy 208, Colorado City, TX, for a charter campus for at-risk students in grades 8-12, including purchase of equipment. The funding will be to support a charter campus for at-risk students in grades 8-12. The campus not only assists students with their educational needs but also in realizing the importance in being a productive citizen within the community and country. •In the Department of Justice, DJP-Byrne Discretionary Grants account, to provide funding in the amount of $1,200,000 for the Texas State University Train-the-Trainer (ALERRT) program. The entity to receive funding for this project is the Advanced Law Enforcement Rapid Response Training (ALERRT) Program at Texas State University-San Marcos, located at 601 University Drive, San Marcos, Texas. Funding will be used to support the ALERRT program, which was established by Texas State University, to provide first responders with the tactics they will need to effectively respond to active shooter situations. •Project funding for the construction of on/off ramps of I-20 for Garfield and Cotton Flat Road in Midland, TX in the amount of $380,000. The funding will be appropriated from the Interstate Maintenance Discretionary account to the Texas Department of Transportation, 125 East 11th St., Austin, TX 78701. The project is included in the I-20 Corridor Master plan and the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program. •Project funding in the amount of $475,000 to widen the 45 mile section of SH-349 in Martin and Dawson County by two additional lanes as a portion of Trade Corridor 56 designated and funded (1.6 mil) by SAFETEA-LU as a high priority trade corridor. The funding will be appropriated from the Transportation, Community and System Preservation account to the Texas Department of Transportation, 125 East 11th St., Austin, TX 78701. This section of SH-349 is a part of the Ports to Plains Corridor, two National High Priority Corridors and the Texas Trunk System. •Project funding in the amount of $190,000 for the Economic Development Initiative that will include streetscaping, environmental remediation, infrastructure improvements and demolition of dilapidated buildings of downtown Midland, TX. The funding will be appropriated from the Economic Development Initiatives account to the City of Midland, City Hall, 300 N. Loraine, Midland, TX 79701. •Project funding in the amount of $142,500 for an Economic Development Initiative that will include enhancing an economically depressed area along the North Concho River through downtown San Angelo. The funding will be appropriated from the Economic Development Initiatives account to the City of San Angelo, City Hall, 72 W. College Ave, San Angelo, TX 76903. The City has contributed over $6 million for the project and continues to contribute through a 1/2 cent sales tax. The initiative includes improving accessibility multi-use pathways, connecting commercial and residential areas and improving river access, lighting, landscaping and other public spaces along the Concho River and downtown San Angelo. •Project funding in the amount of $237,500 for construction of a multi-modal terminal that will house customer service centers, administrative offices and development space for the Concho Valley Transit District. The funding will be appropriated from the Buses and Bus Facilities account to The Texas Department of Transportation, 125 East 11th St., Austin, TX 78701. The Texas Department of Transportation has awarded a multi-year $1.5 million grant to support future development and the project received $250,000 in FY08. This project has been authorized by SAFETEA-LU. *Project funding in the amount of $190,000 for preliminary engineering, and construction of a transit authority administration facility to manage 8,500 square miles of regional public transit system. The funding will be appropriated from the Buses and Bus Facilities account to The Texas Department of Transportation, 125 East 11th St., Austin, TX 78701.
03.09.2009	“I am pleased to be named ranking member of this panel, and I look forward to working with Chairman Andrews to examine the acquisition and procurement processes at the Department of Defense. The important work on this panel will be to look at how the Department of Defense acquires the necessary equipment to provide our men and women with the best possible tools and equipment available,” said Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX). share: f t Today Rep. Ike Skelton (D-MO), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee and Ranking Member John McHugh (R-NY) announce the formation of a special panel to address the ongoing challenge of defense acquisition reform. Members of the Panel on Defense Acquisition Reform are: Rep. Robert Andrews (D-NJ) Chairman Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) Ranking Member Rep. Jim Cooper (D-TN) Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) Rep. Brad Ellsworth (D-IN) Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) Rep. Joe Sestak (D-PA) “Throughout my time in Congress, repeated efforts have been made to improve the federal acquisition process – some successful, some not. In recent years the problems in DOD’s acquisition system have been particularly severe,” Chairman Skelton (D-MO) said. “Significant reforms are once again needed, in part because the acquisition system must change as DOD’s needs change. The very talented Members on this panel will put a fresh set of eyes on the problem, and I look forward to their recommendations.” “Chairman Skelton and I stand together in launching an effort to add a Committee voice to the conversation about reforming the Pentagon’s acquisition system,” added Ranking Member McHugh (R-NY). “Congress has already enacted significant changes to the acquisition process; nevertheless, improvements can always be made. Before we simply enact more regulations, we must understand the root causes of the Department of Defense’s acquisition challenges in order to generate suggestions to affect real reform. This is all the more important in an environment of declining defense spending on weapons systems, when we must ensure that every dollar is spent as effectively as possible.” Rep. Robert Andrews (D-NJ) commented, “I’m thrilled to have this opportunity to lead work on such an important, challenging issue. During these economic times, it is vital that we ensure our defense acquisition system provides the best to our warfighters while making the most efficient use of the taxpayer’s money. I look forward to working with Mr. Conaway and the other members of the panel to advance the process of reforming DOD’s acquisition.” “I am pleased to be named ranking member of this panel, and I look forward to working with Chairman Andrews to examine the acquisition and procurement processes at the Department of Defense. The important work on this panel will be to look at how the Department of Defense acquires the necessary equipment to provide our men and women with the best possible tools and equipment available,” said Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX). The Panel on Defense Acquisition Reform will be established for a six month period with the option of being extended another six month period. The panel will address broad issues surrounding the defense acquisition process including: how to evaluate performance and value in the current system, the root causes of system failures, the administrative and cultural pressures that lead to negative outcomes, and the reform recommendations of previous studies. Upon its conclusion, the panel will release a report outlining its findings in order to provide guiding principles to the FY2011 defense authorization act. For this year’s defense authorization act, the panel’s work is expected to inform the committee’s efforts as different pieces of acquisition reform legislation come under consideration.
02.27.2009	“This week, in President Obama’s speech to a joint session of Congress, he stated that we have some hard decisions ahead of us that will have to be made in terms of what needs to be done about spending and our current economic crisis in our country. It was my hope that President Obama would begin that hard decision-making last night, making it his first order of business to tell Speaker Pelosi to send him an omnibus package with no new discretionary spending over last year." share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the massive, $410 billion ‘omnibus’ spending package on mostly party-line vote. Congressman Mike Conaway made this statement following the vote: “This week, in President Obama’s speech to a joint session of Congress, he stated that we have some hard decisions ahead of us that will have to be made in terms of what needs to be done about spending and our current economic crisis in our country. It was my hope that President Obama would begin that hard decision-making last night, making it his first order of business to tell Speaker Pelosi to send him an omnibus package with no new discretionary spending over last year. Instead, the package which passed in the House today, contained over $31 billion more than was appropriated last year, bringing the total spending in the package to a whopping $410 billion. “Every cent that we appropriate for Washington spending is a cen that we don’t have to spend; it is money that will be placed square on the backs of future generations to pay back and that will be paid for in the form of tax increases for hard-working Americans across the country. “This excessive tax-and-spend policy that Speaker Pelosi and President Obama are implementing will do nothing to help our current economic crisis. I am more than willing to work with the President as he makes these tough decisions to help our ailing economy, but cannot support such wasteful spending as this omnibus bill.”
02.25.2009	“The United States Congress, including the House Committee on Agriculture, spent roughly a year and a half gathering input and first-hand testimony from thousands of various producers and entities regarding how federal policies affect various sectors of the agriculture industry. As a result of these efforts, concessions on both sides of issues were made, deals were brokered and a contract between the American producer and the Federal Government was signed." share: f t Last night, during his address to a joint session of Congress, and in front of a nationally televised audience, President Obama appeared to head down the well-traveled road of singling out agriculture and direct payments in his upcoming budget. Congressman Mike Conaway made the following statement in response to the speech: “The United States Congress, including the House Committee on Agriculture, spent roughly a year and a half gathering input and first-hand testimony from thousands of various producers and entities regarding how federal policies affect various sectors of the agriculture industry. As a result of these efforts, concessions on both sides of issues were made, deals were brokered and a contract between the American producer and the Federal Government was signed. This agreement was supported by President Obama at the time. A sense of certainty and predictability must be allowed to farmers, ranchers and rural America. The budget process is not the proper venue for structural changes to the 2007 Farm Bill. I will actively oppose any and all efforts to alter the structure or mechanics of the 2007 Farm Bill before its scheduled expiration in 2012. We must allow our farmers to continue to provide the American consumer with the most abundant and affordable food and fiber supply in the world. “In last night’s State of the Union speech, President Obama said, ‘…we will end direct payments to large agribusinesses that don't need them.’ The President has resorted to the old and tired exercise of using agriculture as a whipping boy for Federal deficits. Commodity payments represent less than a tenth of the cost of the 2008 farm bill. Since Barack Obama has become president, the Federal Government has spent $35 billion a day. If the President were to eliminate all commodity payments for the entire five year Farm Bill he would gain less than one and a half days worth of spending at his current rate. “Providing a safety net for our farmers and ranchers is good public policy that serves the interests of not only the American producer but the American consumer and taxpayer as well. I will continue to work to ensure that that the voices of America’s producers are heard in Washington.” Congressman Conaway has served as a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture since being elected to office in 2004.
02.13.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, on a strict party-line vote. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following the vote: “First and foremost, I want to make it clear that our economy needs stimulation in this time of economic loss and despair, and that the federal government should play a role. This package, however, is not the answer that our country is looking for. This $789 billion borrow-and-spend bill is 17% tax cuts, and 83% spending, and is in no way considered stimulative. It even includes legislative provisions such as the Comparative Effectiveness Research Panel, which is the first step toward government-controlled healthcare, and is clearly not stimulative. Provisions such as this will not create jobs, and will end up doing more harm to our economy than good. “President Obama called for no earmarks to be included in the stimulus package; however Speaker Pelosi and Senate Leader Harry Reid felt that the rules did not apply to them, as they both included projects for their districts in the bill including a rail system between Las Vegas and Los Angeles, and money to save the harvest mice in San Francisco. The millions of dollars that will be spent on these projects could have been better used in the form of tax cuts to hard-working Americans. “Republicans in Congress offered an alternative bill structured on tax cuts to small businesses and individuals that would allow people to keep and reinvest their money and begin the arduous task of turning the economy around. Nevertheless, Republicans were left out of the process, even after a unanimous vote to allow no less than 48 hours for Members of Congress and the American public to review of the final legislation before voting on it. Democrats in Congress, however, brought this legislation to the floor a mere 14 hours after it had been filed. President Obama has continued to reiterate his goal of bipartisanship in Congress; however this goal is unrealistic when Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid continue to break their promise of transparency and openness in Congress. “Today is a sad day for our future generations, as we have saddled them with additional debt of which they will have to pay the interest. This legislation does little to stimulate the economy; in fact, the only thing that will grow as a result of this stimulus package is the size of the federal government.”
01.30.2009	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Congressman John Salazar (D-CO) sent a letter to Chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee Charlie Rangel (D-NY) and Ranking Member Dave Camp (R-MI) urging them to consider the importance of exemptions on family-owned farms and small businesses from any increase in the estate tax. The letter is spurred by the announcement by President Obama to block the repeal of the estate tax and maintain the current exemption letter. “I want to thank Congressman Salazar for being a bold leader in his advocacy for family-owned small businesses and farms,” said Conaway. “The rising value of farm and ranch real estate is making it more difficult for farmers and ranchers to pass on their working ranches and farms to the hands of their descendents without the heavy burden of the estate tax. Obama’s proposal fails to index the estate tax to inflation.” The estate tax, or the ‘death tax’, is set to expire in 2010. Last week, however, President-elect Barack Obama, along with Members of the House Majority leadership, announced plans to preserve the estate tax and block it from its scheduled expiration, which will be detailed in Obama’s budget plan and will be released next month. In 2000, there were 108,322 farms and small businesses that filed estate tax returns. The average value for farms and small businesses in the year 2000 was over $2 million. In 2011, the Estate Tax rate will be at 55% for all estates valued over $1 million. Congressman Mike Conaway is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a former small business owner.
01.28.2009	“My problem with this spending package is not only in the massive cost, but also where and how the money is spent. Roughly half of the Pelosi-Obey spending package funds non-stimulative social programs within the jurisdiction of the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee. For example, the bill’s original language set aside $462 million for equipment, construction, and renovation of facilities at the Centers for Disease Control and $3 billion for prevention & wellness programs, including $335 million for STD education and prevention. Regardless of our country’s need for these programs, there is no question that they are not necessary to revive our economy." share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 by a vote of 244 to 188 Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voted against the bill, and made the following statement after the vote: “My problem with this spending package is not only in the massive cost, but also where and how the money is spent. Roughly half of the Pelosi-Obey spending package funds non-stimulative social programs within the jurisdiction of the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Subcommittee. For example, the bill’s original language set aside $462 million for equipment, construction, and renovation of facilities at the Centers for Disease Control and $3 billion for prevention & wellness programs, including $335 million for STD education and prevention. Regardless of our country’s need for these programs, there is no question that they are not necessary to revive our economy. “I was a cosponsor of the Republican alternative to the Pelosi-Obey spending bill. The Republican proposal requires that any new spending geared at stimulating the economy should be paid for by reducing other government spending. We cannot borrow and spend our way back to a growing economy, but we can offer incentives to small businesses and individuals that will put money back in their pockets to instill confidence in our economy and create new jobs. “We cannot, in good faith, leave the next generation with this giant mess to clean up. We are not only borrowing $825 billion that we do not have now, we are selfishly stripping money away from our children and grandchildren that they should have available to address their issues. Needless to say, I will be opposing this massive expansion of our federal government, and will continue to oppose legislation that will further burden our children by borrowing money that will never be paid back to fix a temporary problem.”
01.26.2009	Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) has been appointed by Republican House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, known informally as the Ethics Committee, for the 111th Congress. share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) has been appointed by Republican House Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) to the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, known informally as the Ethics Committee, for the 111th Congress. “I am pleased to announce the addition of Congressman Mike Conaway to the House Ethics Committee,” said Republican Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH). “Mike’s strong voice for government accountability and transparency will help restore the public’s trust in Washington.” The Committee has jurisdiction over the House Code of Conduct and investigates ethical allegations against Members of Congress. “As a Member of Congress, my ability to serve my constituents is only as good as my integrity. I am honored to be appointed by Leader Boehner and accept this position with the understanding of the serious importance and accountability that the House Ethics Committee ensues. While the best oversight in Congress will always be in the hands of the voters who choose whether to reelect a candidate, I look forward to working on the House Ethics Committee to reform and strengthen its independence, make the process more transparent, and ensure that Members face appropriate punishment for wrongdoing.” In addition to investigating allegations against Members, the Ethics Committee reviews proposed changes to the Code of Conduct and oversees ethics training for Congressional staff.
01.23.2009	Late yesterday, Ranking Republican on the House Agriculture Committee Frank Lucas (OK-03) named Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) Ranking Republican on the Specialty Crops, Rural Development, and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. share: f t Late yesterday, Ranking Republican on the House Agriculture Committee Frank Lucas (OK-03) named Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) Ranking Republican on the Specialty Crops, Rural Development, and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee. “I am pleased to announce these new leadership posts for the Committee. All of the Subcommittee Ranking Republicans are seasoned members and strong advocates for American agriculture. They understand the value of our farmers and ranchers and how important rural communities are to our nation’s economy,” said Ranking Republican Frank Lucas. The jurisdiction of the Specialty Crops, Rural Development, and Foreign Agriculture include diverse crops such as peanuts and sugar as well as being responsible for overseeing biotechnology issues, rural development, farm security and family farming matters, foreign agricultural assistance, and trade promotion programs. “I look forward to this opportunity to further represent the interests of rural agriculture and specialty crops . Agriculture and rural interests will always remain a priority for me. My goals will be to represent rural interests and advocate for their economic importance to our nation as a whole. I am eager to continue work on behalf of the constitutes of Texas District eleven and on behalf of all of American Agriculture to ensure that American citizens continue to enjoy the world’s most abundant and safe food and fiber supply.” Congressman Conaway has served as a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture since being elected to office in 2004.
01.15.2009	Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 96, the Save Family-Owned Farms and Small Businesses Act of 2009 in the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation would increase the special use valuation for farms up to $1,850,000 and increase the qualified family-owned business interest deduction to $2,000,000 indexed to inflation. share: f t Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 96, the Save Family-Owned Farms and Small Businesses Act of 2009 in the U.S. House of Representatives. This legislation would increase the special use valuation for farms up to $1,850,000 and increase the qualified family-owned business interest deduction to $2,000,000 indexed to inflation. “The rising value of farm and ranch real estate is making it more difficult for farmers and ranchers to pass on their working ranches and farms to the hands of their descendents without the heavy burden of the estate tax,” said Conaway. “Obama’s proposal fails to index the estate tax to inflation. This legislation specifically targets the family farms, ranches and small businesses who will be hit by the estate tax the hardest if the tax is not indexed to inflation.” The estate tax, or the ‘death tax’, is set to expire in 2010. This week, however, President-elect Barack Obama, along with Members of the House Majority leadership, announced plans to preserve the estate tax and block it from its scheduled expiration which will be detailed in Obama’s budget plan and will be released next month. Conaway went on to say, “The excessive tax burden that Americans face in life and in death is catastrophic. Taxing death is not good public policy, and is an inherently wrong levy on those who are the lifeblood of our economy and create a large portion of our nation’s jobs. It is time to draw the line.” In 2000, there were 108,322 farms and small businesses that filed estate tax returns. The average value for farms and small businesses in the year 2000 was over $2 million. In 2011, the Estate Tax rate will be at 55% for all estates valued over $1 million. Congressman Mike Conaway is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a former small business owner. *Please read the article below from today’s edition of the Wall Street Journal for more detailed information on this issue* Estates of Pain: The first tax increase of the Obama era. January 13, 2009 Mark it down as the first tax increase of the new Democratic era. The Journal reported yesterday that President-elect Obama and Congressional leaders intend to maintain the estate tax rather than let it expire on schedule in 2010. They will do so even though their economic stimulus plan is supposed to be about creating millions of new jobs in a hurry. The death tax strikes most heavily at small- and medium-sized family-owned businesses that generate the majority of new American jobs. So hitting these family businesses with a multimillion dollar tax bill when the owner dies won't help job creation. Republicans are partly to blame here for making this easy for Democrats, thanks to their mistakes in the 2001 tax bill. Rather than repeal the tax immediately, Republicans got bamboozled into agreeing to a 10-year phase-out that eliminates the tax only for a single year. Then the rate goes all the way back in 2011 to the confiscatory 55% rate of the Clinton era, with a mere $1 million exclusion. Republicans never did fix the tax revenue estimating process on Capitol Hill, and this is one price for that failure. Mr. Obama wants to make the current death tax rate of 45% permanent, along with an exclusion of $3.5 million ($7 million for couples). One issue to watch is whether this exclusion is indexed for inflation, or else over time it will hit more and more average earners who build up a small nest egg over a lifetime. Think Alternative Minimum Tax. The death tax is supposed to be an easy way to extract revenue from the likes of Warren Buffett and Bill Gates, who support the tax. It won't. The super wealthy have foundations and other tax dodges to shield themselves from much of the tax. A 2006 Joint Economic Committee (JEC) study found that death tax "liabilities depend on the skill of the estate planner, rather than on capacity to pay." So much for tax fairness. By contrast, "family-run firms and farms particularly feel the pinch of the estate tax, because they are less likely to have the liquid resources needed to meet their estate tax liabilities." The latest JEC estimate is that the death tax has reduced the stock of capital in the economy by about $847 billion. So let's get this straight: We are said to need an economic stimulus plan that will borrow and spend roughly the same amount of money to replace the capital stock that the estate tax has wiped out. Go figure. This lost capital reinvestment translates into fewer workers on business payrolls. Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the former Congressional Budget Office director, estimates in a new study that the economy would create roughly 1.3 million more small business jobs with no death tax rather than with a 45% rate. Foreign governments understand this relationship, which is why they have been slashing their estate taxes in recent years. According to the American Council for Capital Formation, the U.S. has the third highest estate tax in the developed world -- 49% if you add the federal rate and average state rate, just below 50% in Japan and South Korea. Republicans alone won't have much chance to stop this Obama estate-tax plan, so its fate will hang on Senate Democrats. For years many of those Democrats -- especially in swing states like Arkansas and Montana -- campaigned on the promise to lower or eliminate the estate tax. We'll now find out if they meant it.
01.15.2009	Today, the House Armed Services Committee announced that Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) would serve on the Readiness Subcommittee and the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats, and Capabilities Subcommittee in the 111th Congress. This is the Congressman Conaway’s third term to serve on the Armed Services Committee. share: f t Today, the House Armed Services Committee announced that Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) would serve on the Readiness Subcommittee and the Terrorism, Unconventional Threats, and Capabilities Subcommittee in the 111th Congress. This is the Congressman Conaway’s third term to serve on the Armed Services Committee. “The innocence of our nation was lost on the morning of September 11, 2001 and from that day on we have committed ourselves to our security and the long fight against Islamic Jihadists,” said Conaway. “I strongly support all American men and women in uniform; I support their mission, and I support providing the Department of Defense and the agencies involved in the Global War on Terrorism, with the best resources and tools available to win the mission against the Islamic Jihadists.” Among other responsibilities, the Readiness subcommittee deals with military readiness, including training, logistics and maintenance, wartime sustainability, industrial operations, MILCON, and Base realignment and closures. The Terrorism, Unconventional Threats and Capabilities subcommittee works with DOD counter-proliferation and counter-terrorism projects and initiatives, information technology policy and programs, special operations forces, foreign protection policy, homeland defense and consequence management, and force protection policy. Congressman Conaway has been a member of the House Armed Services Committee since January of 2005.
01.13.2009	“The federal government’s role in addressing the contracting economy must be subjected to vigorous debate in Congress. I will not support efforts to release any further funds under the TARP program. There is no doubt that our economy is still going through hard times, and those hard times will continue. I have expressed my concern to Federal banking regulators that proper regulation is occurring and to make certain that banks who received TARP funding do not withhold credit to the American people due to a misinterpretation of regulatory oversight.” share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after President Bush made the announcement that he would request the second half of the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) funds at the request of President-elect Obama: “The federal government’s role in addressing the contracting economy must be subjected to vigorous debate in Congress. I will not support efforts to release any further funds under the TARP program. There is no doubt that our economy is still going through hard times, and those hard times will continue. I have expressed my concern to Federal banking regulators that proper regulation is occurring and to make certain that banks who received TARP funding do not withhold credit to the American people due to a misinterpretation of regulatory oversight.” Congressman Conaway agreed to cosponsor a joint resolution of disapproval developed by Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) which will be considered under expedited rules on the House floor. If the resolution passes both the House and Senate, it will be sent to the President’s desk where he can then veto it. Congress must immediately vote to override the veto within 15 days in order to halt the release of the additional TARP funding.
01.12.2009	This week, Republican Minority Whip Eric Cantor (R-VA) announced that he has named Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) as Deputy Minority Whip for the 111th Congress. Conaway previously served as an Assistant Whip to former Minority Whip Roy Blunt. The Deputy Whip is responsible for helping the Majority Whip find the votes necessary to pass critical legislation. “This week begins our march toward a stronger future for America based on revitalized, common sense ideals,” said Congressman Eric Cantor, the Republican Whip. “I’m pleased that Congressman Conaway has joined the Republican Whip Team, the team that will act as the cornerstone of House Republican efforts to preserve, protect and create a better tomorrow for working families. This team is comprised of top leaders that will advance a positive vision for the future of our country, a vision based on accountability, transparency and action. I look forward to getting to work alongside Congressman Conaway." Congressman Eric Cantor previously served as Chief Deputy Whip to Congressman Roy Blunt, who served as the Republican Whip from 2003-2009. “This is a tremendous honor and a great responsibility that House Minority Whip Eric Cantor has entrusted me with,” said Conaway. “I look forward to helping the House Republican Leadership lead the effort to continue to advance Republican ideals and promote our conservative agenda. We have a lot of hard work ahead of us as the House addresses an aggressive legislative agenda, and I am excited to better serve the constituents in the 11th District of Texas in my new capacity.”
12.10.2008	“The legislation that passed last night is a step in the wrong direction on the road to a solution to this massive problem. This bill essentially writes a $14 billion blank check paid for by American taxpayers who are not yet born. Bringing this problem to the halls of Congress only wastes valuable time that could be better spent fixing the problem the same way every other industry does – filing for Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Chapter 11 exists for precisely this type of issue, allowing companies and industries to reorganize and renegotiate to allow themselves to emerge from bankruptcy and get their feet back on solid ground." share: f t Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 7331, the Democrat Auto Financing Bill. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in opposition to the legislation: “The legislation that passed last night is a step in the wrong direction on the road to a solution to this massive problem. This bill essentially writes a $14 billion blank check paid for by American taxpayers who are not yet born. Bringing this problem to the halls of Congress only wastes valuable time that could be better spent fixing the problem the same way every other industry does – filing for Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Chapter 11 exists for precisely this type of issue, allowing companies and industries to reorganize and renegotiate to allow themselves to emerge from bankruptcy and get their feet back on solid ground. “The bill also appoints a ‘car czar’ with unfettered power to exercise in the operation of this act, without dealing with the significant conflict of interest inherent in one person making the decisions necessary to implement this bill for three companies that are, and should remain, competitors. “This is a challenging time for our nation and for the automobile industry in particular. However, legislation such as this prolongs the pain instead of addressing the problem and productively rebuilding the industry.” ###
12.03.2008	This year, Walter Reed Army Medical Center has teamed up with the American Red Cross to assist in sharing holiday wishes with our troops both here and abroad. If you would like to send a holiday card to our men and women in uniform, you can send to the address below or visit www.redcross.org for more information. A Service Member Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O. Box 5456 Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5464 share: f t This year, Walter Reed Army Medical Center has teamed up with the American Red Cross to assist in sharing holiday wishes with our troops both here and abroad. If you would like to send a holiday card to our men and women in uniform, you can send to the address below or visit www.redcross.org for more information. A Service Member Holiday Mail for Heroes P.O. Box 5456 Capitol Heights, MD 20791-5464
11.14.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Midland Fire Department has received a grant for $77,678 from the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide direct assistance to the city of Northeast Midland County Volunteer Fire Department. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Midland Fire Department has received a grant for $77,678 from the 2008 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide direct assistance to the city of Northeast Midland County Volunteer Fire Department. “Congress recognizes the importance that first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Grants such as this are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps to ensure that firefighters in Midland have the tools they need to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States. This specific grant will provide funding for operations and safety in the Midland County Fire Department. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/ ###
11.11.2008	"Today is a proud day for the United States. November 11th is a day of reflection; a day for each and every one of us to express our appreciation for the over 25 million Americans that have sacrificed to serve our nation. “Throughout our nation’s history, we have been blessed to have soldiers, sailors, marines and airmen willing and ready to answer the call of duty. Regardless of the hardships they endured or the personal sacrifices they had to make, these men and women selflessly answered the call to arms. Whether they served during war or peacetime, on active duty or in the Reserves, on the home front or abroad, these patriots all deserve our respect and gratitude. The pride and perseverance of our men and women in uniform is reflected in every generation of veterans, from World War I to the current service members engaged in fighting in the Global War against Islamic Jihadists. So today, in addition to thanking our veterans for their service, I call upon every American to express their respect and gratitude to our veterans and current members of the armed forces. Please give thanks for their commitment and their sacrifices, and for the protection of freedom that we all enjoy. Above all, we must give thanks that our nation has brave patriots that are willing to answer the call to duty.”
11.10.2008	8:30 a.m.: Veteran’s Day Ceremony at UTPB Location: Mesa Bldg/ UTPB 10:00 a.m.: Veteran’s Day Ceremony at Andrews High School Location: Andrews, Texas 11:30 a.m.: Veterans Luncheon Location: James Roberts Center, Andrews, Texas 1:30 p.m.: Flag Raising Ceremony at Veteran’s Memorial sponsored by The Veteran’s Board Location: East Broadway, Andrews, Texas
10.03.2008	“Today’s vote was the hardest I have taken in my nearly four years of being a Member of Congress. For the past week, I have listened to the concerns of thousands of West Texans, the large majority coming out opposed to the legislation, and with good reason. I voted against the bill on Monday because there were several key pieces missing in the grand puzzle that is this financial rescue package. I do not believe that such massive government action is the best answer to the current problems on Wall Street. However, I know that we must act quickly to restore investor and lender confidence and return our great nation to the most thriving economy in the world." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX-11) made the following statement on the passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008: “Today’s vote was the hardest I have taken in my nearly four years of being a Member of Congress. For the past week, I have listened to the concerns of thousands of West Texans, the large majority coming out opposed to the legislation, and with good reason. I voted against the bill on Monday because there were several key pieces missing in the grand puzzle that is this financial rescue package. I do not believe that such massive government action is the best answer to the current problems on Wall Street. However, I know that we must act quickly to restore investor and lender confidence and return our great nation to the most thriving economy in the world. “There are two key amendments added by the Senate to the today’s bill that improved the rescue plan. One amendment increases the FDIC insurance limits, which will help calm bank depositors’ anxiety about the safety of their bank accounts. The other amendments are unrelated to the overall plan, but are positive issues such as a one-year patch to the Alternative Minimum Tax, sales tax deductions, and disaster relief for Texas hurricane victims. While these tax amendments made the overall bill easier to vote for, they were not my final determining factors. “After the vote on Monday, the stock market reacted very negatively to the defeat. Confidence in the short term lending facilities, particularly commercial paper markets and overnight lending between banks, had to be addressed. The rescue plan’s focus on the mortgage backed securities problems is an attempt to restore confidence in short and medium-term lending, which is the lifeblood of our economy. While we cannot be positive that this plan will work to restore that confidence, I am positive that inaction is not an option. “Above all else, I voted for this plan because I believe the threats to our economy are real and grave. This financial crisis will negatively affect everyone in this country if no action is taken, and it is my steadfast hope that this legislation will calm the fear and uncertainty that have gripped our lending markets and enable us to implement deeper structural reforms that prevent a crisis of this magnitude from ever reoccurring.”
10.02.2008	Below is Congressman Conaway's "Ask Mike Anything" schedule for the October District work period. More events will be scheduled, so please call your local district office for a more comphrensive event schedule in your area. District office phone numbers are listed at the bottom of the page.. Monday, October 6th at 2:10 p.m., Ballinger: "Ask Mike Anything" at Ballinger Carnegie Library, 204 North 8th Street Monday, October 6th at 3:30 p.m., Miles: "Ask Mike Anything" at Miles Co-op Gin Tuesday, October 7th at 3:15 p.m., Eldorado: "Ask Mike Anything" at 1st Community Federal Credit Union, 107 South Divide Wednesday, October 8th at 3:00 p.m., Lamesa: "Ask Mike Anything" at Dal Paso Museum, 125 Main Avenue Friday, October 10th at 8:00 a.m., Glasscock County: "Ask Mike Anything", Glasscock County Gin Friday, October 10th at 2:50 p.m, Sterling City: "Ask Mike Anything", First National Bank, 602 4th Street Wednesday, October 15th, Marble Falls: "Ask Mike Anything", Pattons on Main, 201 Main Street Wednesday, October 15th at 11:00 a.m., Kingsland: "Ask Mike Anything" Kingsland Community Center, 3451 Rose Hill Drive Wednesday, October 15th at 3:10 p.m., Mason: "Ask Mike Anything", Mason County Courthouse, 201 Ft. McKavitt Friday, October 31st at 10:15 a.m., Snyder: "Ask Mike Anything", College on the Square, 1806 26th Street Friday, October 31st at 1:45 p.m., Sweetwater: "Ask Mike Anything", Sweetwater Country Club, 1901 Country Club Drive
09.29.2008	“While I know that something must be done to get our economy back on solid ground, I could not support the proposal that was brought to the floor today. Such massive government intervention is not the answer to working out the problems on Wall Street. We cannot make it habit to bail out companies when they make bad decisions, instead of allowing them to learn from their mistakes the same way that everyone else does – the hard way." share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, which is designed to provide the Treasury Department with the authority to purchase troubled assets on the books of private financial institutions in an effort to resolve the current financial crisis. The bill failed by a vote of 205 to 228. After the vote, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement: “While I know that something must be done to get our economy back on solid ground, I could not support the proposal that was brought to the floor today. Such massive government intervention is not the answer to working out the problems on Wall Street. We cannot make it habit to bail out companies when they make bad decisions, instead of allowing them to learn from their mistakes the same way that everyone else does – the hard way. We have the ability to help Wall Street sort out this crisis, without forcing taxpayers into a ‘bailout’. I understand the severity of the current situation, and Congress must stay in Washington as long as it takes to develop an alternative plan that everyone, including the American taxpayer, can agree on is best for our country.” ###
09.24.2008	This week, Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives announced that they would surrender to the months of continual Republican pressure and allow the 26-year American offshore energy exploration ban to expire next week. share: f t This week, Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives announced that they would surrender to the months of continual Republican pressure and allow the 26-year American offshore energy exploration ban to expire next week. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following the announcement: “The announcement that the Democrats are going to surrender to the pleas of Americans across the country and allow the ban on offshore drilling to expire is a great victory for hard-working citizens who have been feeling the brunt of high gas prices for over a year now. Almost two years ago, when Nancy Pelosi was sworn in as Speaker of the House, she promised the American people a ‘commonsense plan to help bring down skyrocketing gas prices’, yet since that day, she has stood idly by and watched as gas prices across the country shot up to $4 a gallon. This announcement is a step in the right direction, but it is far from a solution to our nation’s energy crisis. We must demand energy policy that will include coal, nuclear, coal-to-liquids, renewables, and support for new ways to power automobiles. We are dependent on foreign crude oil and must deal with our current situation and drill domestically to achieve lower prices. Congress owes it to hardworking Americans to implement real energy solutions before Congress adjourns.” ###
09.17.2008	“Week after week, the Democratic leadership continues their rhetoric on change and the need for affordable energy, yet the legislation that was passed last night is nothing more than a sham bill on display for political gains. There are no new refineries included in their bill, no nuclear energy, no clean coal, no drilling in ANWR, and, if you read the fine print, no domestic exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf for additional drilling. In addition, the bill includes $19 billion in energy tax hikes on American consumers, manufacturers and small businesses." share: f t Last night, after a mere three hours of debate, the House of Representatives voted on the Democrat-led “No Energy” bill. Congressman Conaway made this statement following the vote: “Week after week, the Democratic leadership continues their rhetoric on change and the need for affordable energy, yet the legislation that was passed last night is nothing more than a sham bill on display for political gains. There are no new refineries included in their bill, no nuclear energy, no clean coal, no drilling in ANWR, and, if you read the fine print, no domestic exploration in the Outer Continental Shelf for additional drilling. In addition, the bill includes $19 billion in energy tax hikes on American consumers, manufacturers and small businesses. “Last night, Republicans offered as, in effect, a bipartisan amendment to be included in the Democrats “Energy” bill. The package, introduced by Representatives Neil Abercrombie (D-HI) and John Peterson (R-PA), would include coal, nuclear, coal-to-liquids, additional drilling in the outer continental shelf, and support for new ways to power automobiles. The Abercrombie-Peterson amendment had vast support from both sides of the aisle, with 39 Democrat cosponsors and 13 additional Democrat votes, yet Speaker Pelosi would not allow it to pass. “Republican Members have done everything possible to force their voices to be heard by the Majority, but all we have gotten are turned backs. Instead of debating this legislation, and honoring the “open and honest” Congress that she promised, Speaker Pelosi decided to craft her 290-page energy bill behind closed doors in her office, with no say from any Members of Congress. “Speaker Pelosi and her followers are taking Americans for a fool with this sham bill. The motives behind passing this “energy” legislation are abhorrent; Congress owes it to hardworking Americans to implement real energy solutions before Congress adjourns.” President Bush is expected to veto this legislation. ###
09.17.2008	Today, on the most significant day for 2nd amendment rights since the Supreme Court overturned the District of Columbia’s 32-year old handgun ban in June, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass a bill that would limit D.C.’s power to regulate handguns. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made this statement following the bill’s passage: “Today’s vote to protect second amendment rights for residents of the District of Columbia is a monumental victory for not only citizens of Washington, D.C., but for all Americans. The bill that passed today will restrict almost all gun control rules at the local level in Washington, D.C., and would limit city officials’ ability to endorse any measures that go beyond federal firearms restrictions. Under the Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, every citizen has the right to bear arms; yet for more than thirty years, this right has been denied to the citizens of Washington, D.C. I am pleased that Second Amendment rights for citizens of the District of Colombia have finally been defended and that D.C. residents are now able to keep and bear firearms to protect themselves and their property. ” ###
09.11.2008	“Today marks the seventh anniversary of the September 11th attacks. That day will be recorded as one of the most tragic and horrific in the history of our nation; a day when we once again lost our innocence. On that morning, every American woke up to a new kind of terror and a life forever changed. Now, seven years later, it is important to remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the first responders who sacrificed their lives for others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives every day for the sake of freedom." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement on the seventh anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: “Today marks the seventh anniversary of the September 11th attacks. That day will be recorded as one of the most tragic and horrific in the history of our nation; a day when we once again lost our innocence. On that morning, every American woke up to a new kind of terror and a life forever changed. Now, seven years later, it is important to remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the first responders who sacrificed their lives for others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives every day for the sake of freedom. “For far too long, we lived unaware of the ruthlessness of those who wished to do us harm. The events of September 11th forced us to commit ourselves to our security and the long fight against terrorism. We have made great progress in the last seven years to protect our way of life, but the Global War on Terror is far from over and will be a struggle for years to come. We must never forget the events of that gruesome day and we must stay diligent to never back down in this fight. Now, more than ever, we must continue to stay on the offensive and do what is necessary here at home to keep Americans safe. “As a member of Congress, I will have the opportunity to participate and view the dedication ceremony of the 9/11 memorial park at the Pentagon. The memorial consists of benches that mark the memory of the 184 people who died on Flight 77 and at the Pentagon. It is a memorial that is both 'individual and collective' allowing visitors to experience the memorial in a way that best suits them. The park will change how Americans view the Pentagon and open it in a way that was never intended, but in a way that will serve as a constant reminder of the sacrifice for freedom.” Congressman Mike Conaway is a Member of the House Armed Services Committee.
09.09.2008	The federal takeover of the nation’s two largest mortgage finance companies may prove to be very expensive for the American taxpayer and supports the premise that in a globalized economy, government sponsored enterprises are not feasible. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have enjoyed the benefits of publicly traded corporations with a government subsidy. That concept might have been fine 40 years ago. The federal takeover places all risk on the American taxpayer and ensures that neither company can fail. It is time that Congress seriously considers a future without government sponsored enterprises. The options include complete liquidation of the companies into smaller entities that bare their own risk or transforming the companies into strictly government agencies. The federal takeover makes the status quo unfeasible and unreasonable for taxpayers. Both of the available options pose a risk to homeowners and taxpayers, but now is the time for Congress to reshape the mortgage industry to meet the new demands of a globalized market economy.
09.08.2008	Congressman Mike Conaway invites area high school seniors interested in attending one of the United States’ military service academies to apply for nominations through his office. The application period for students who will enter college next year ends October 27, 2008. share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway invites area high school seniors interested in attending one of the United States’ military service academies to apply for nominations through his office. The application period for students who will enter college next year ends October 27, 2008. Eligible students are high school seniors or older who would be able to enter the Service Academies in the summer of 2008. To be considered, applicants must be a U. S. Citizen residing in the 11th Congressional District of Texas, must be at least 17 years old, but not yet 23 years of age, on July 2, 2009, must be unmarried, and cannot be pregnant or have a legal obligation to support children or other dependents. Selection is based on SAT and ACT test scores, class rank, grade point averages, extracurricular activities, leadership potential and motivation. Interested applicants should contact Congressman Conaway’s Academy Liaison JoAnne Powell at (325) 659-4010. Applications are available through Congressman Conaway’s San Angelo Regional Office located at 33 East Twohig, Suite 307, San Angelo, Texas, 76903. ###
09.03.2008	“Efforts to keep our youth drug-free are critical to keeping a healthy community here in the Concho Valley area,” said Conaway. “The Drug-Free Communities Program recognizes the great potential of Concho Valley C.A.R.E.S. This significant funding will allow the Concho Valley C.A.R.E.S. program to continue in their efforts to prevent and reduce substance abuse.” share: f t Congressman Mike Conaway (T-11) announced today that the Concho Valley, which includes Coke, Concho, Crockett, Irion, Kimble, Mason, McCulloch, Menard, Reagan, Schleicher, Sterling, Sutton, and Tom Green counties, will receive $125,000 in Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Federal grant monies for Concho Valley C.A.R.E.S. (Community Action & Resources for Empowerment & Success). “Efforts to keep our youth drug-free are critical to keeping a healthy community here in the Concho Valley area,” said Conaway. “The Drug-Free Communities Program recognizes the great potential of Concho Valley C.A.R.E.S. This significant funding will allow the Concho Valley C.A.R.E.S. program to continue in their efforts to prevent and reduce substance abuse.” John Walters, Director of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) and President Bush’s ‘Drug Czar’ said, “Today, 860,000 fewer youths are using drugs than in 2001. Together, as a Nation, we have made significant progress in our efforts against substance abuse. Coalitions like Concho Valley C.A.R.E.S. are important partners in pushing back against the harms of drug use.” The DFC program provides grants of up to $625,000 over five years to community organizations that facilitate citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. The 199 new grantees were selected from 419 applicants through a competitive peer review process. To qualify for matching grants, all awardees must have at least a six-month history of working together on substance abuse prevention initiatives, develop a long-term plan to reduce substance abuse, and participate in a national evaluation of the Drug-Free Communities Program. For more information about the Drug-Free Communities Program, please visit www.whitehousedrugpolicy.gov/dfc. ###
08.11.2008	U.S. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) returned to Washington today to continue the floor protest on the American energy crisis to urge Speaker Nancy Pelosi to call a special session of Congress to vote on energy legislation that would allow for increased domestic drilling. share: f t U.S. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) returned to Washington today to continue the floor protest on the American energy crisis to urge Speaker Nancy Pelosi to call a special session of Congress to vote on energy legislation that would allow for increased domestic drilling. On Friday, August 1st, following an intemperate adjournment, House Republicans, along with hundreds of constituents from both political parties from across the U.S., took to the House Floor chanting and cheering in a form of protest to call the House back to session for a vote to implement domestic drilling legislation. The Democrats turned off all lights, cameras and microphones, but Republicans have continued to be persistent in their efforts. Below is an excerpt from Congressman Conaway’s speech on the House floor this morning: "The American people have a particular sense of fairness. Today's debate is not about forcing people to like drilling for oil – it is about having a vote, and allowing the American people to express their will. We have the right to free speech in this country, and 651,000 people in West Texas have asked me to come to this place and speak on their behalf. Rather than debate a comprehensive energy policy, the Democrats have chosen to close the House and end the conversation. "Ronald Reagan was a man of many quotes. One of his most famous was given in Berlin, while standing in front of one of the enduring symbols of communism: the Berlin Wall. Fed up with the silent suffering of millions of East Berliners, President Reagan demanded: ‘Mr. Gorbachev, tear down this wall!’. Today we stand in the People's House, where our public debate has been silenced and we also demand: Speaker Pelosi, turn on these lights and give us a vote!"
08.07.2008	“I am disappointed in the EPA’s decision to ignore the requests of the American public by refusing to reduce the volume of the RFS mandate. With food prices rising twice as fast as the rate of inflation, a large portion of the high costs of basic commodities are being placed on the backs of hard-working consumers. This year, approximately one-third of America’s corn crop will be converted to ethanol to meet the RFS. Although supply will decrease significantly, the demand put in place by the RFS will increase considerably. I am still of the belief that the EPA should act now to reduce the mandate to immediately increase the supply of corn that will be used for food and feed, softening the economic blow facing millions of Americans. I strongly support the development of alternative energies such as ethanol, cellulosic and advanced biofuels to meet certain mandates, but I do not stand behind any Federal Government mandate or requirement that can contribute to rising food and energy costs and could adversely impact our domestic economy." share: f t On June 27, 2008, a bipartisan group of Members of Congress sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Stephen Johnson urging him to reduce the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) mandate. Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to decision by the EPA to not reduce the volume of the Renewable Fuel Standard mandate which would be required to be used in motor vehicles and other engines: “I am disappointed in the EPA’s decision to ignore the requests of the American public by refusing to reduce the volume of the RFS mandate. With food prices rising twice as fast as the rate of inflation, a large portion of the high costs of basic commodities are being placed on the backs of hard-working consumers. This year, approximately one-third of America’s corn crop will be converted to ethanol to meet the RFS. Although supply will decrease significantly, the demand put in place by the RFS will increase considerably. I am still of the belief that the EPA should act now to reduce the mandate to immediately increase the supply of corn that will be used for food and feed, softening the economic blow facing millions of Americans. I strongly support the development of alternative energies such as ethanol, cellulosic and advanced biofuels to meet certain mandates, but I do not stand behind any Federal Government mandate or requirement that can contribute to rising food and energy costs and could adversely impact our domestic economy. “I understand that various individuals and agriculture organizations view this issue differently, but the discussion will not end with today’s decision. I will be working alongside other Texas Members in the coming weeks to request a new study from the Food and Agricultural Policy Research Institute (FAPRI) that would analyze the issue of continuing, modifying, and/or waiving of the federal government’s renewable fuels policies, and the affects that these policies have on corn prices, livestock feed prices, food prices, and fuel prices. It is the duty of the Federal Government to work for and not against the American public.” Click here to view the letter to Administrator Stephen Johnson from a bipartisan group of Members of the Congressional delegation. ###
08.04.2008	This past Friday, following an intemperate adjournment, House Republicans, along with hundreds of constituents from both political parties from across the U.S., took to the House Floor chanting and cheering in a form of protest to call the House back to session for a vote to implement domestic drilling legislation. The Democrats turned off all lights, cameras and microphones, but Republicans were persistent in their efforts. Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) returned to Washington to continue the call to action on American energy. share: f t This past Friday, following an intemperate adjournment, House Republicans, along with hundreds of constituents from both political parties from across the U.S., took to the House Floor chanting and cheering in a form of protest to call the House back to session for a vote to implement domestic drilling legislation. The Democrats turned off all lights, cameras and microphones, but Republicans were persistent in their efforts. Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) returned to Washington to continue the call to action on American energy. “Friday we witnessed the power that the American public is granted in the words of the Constitution,” said Conaway. “The level of energy and tenacity on the House floor was unlike anything I have ever witnessed before. For months, the American people and Republicans in Congress have pleaded with the Democrat leadership to provide real energy legislation for relief at the pump. Unfortunately, those pleas have fallen on deaf ears. Instead, my Democrat colleagues have chosen to scatter into the five-week recess without any substantive vote addressing our energy crisis, leaving Americans to deal with five more long weeks of higher-than-necessary prices at the pump. We are dependent on foreign crude oil and must deal with our current situation and drill domestically to achieve lower prices. It is that simple. I want to encourage Americans across the country to join me today in demanding action from Congress on this important issue.” In addition, Congressman Conaway sent an emergency letter to President Bush asking him to use the power vested in him by the Constitution to convene an immediate energy special session of Congress. Under Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution, the President has the power ‘on extraordinary occasions to convene the Congress.
08.01.2008	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives voted by voice-vote to unanimously pass H.R. 6437, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 200 N Texas Avenue in Odessa, TX as the “Corporal Alfred ‘Mac’ Wilson Post Office Building”. On March 3, 1969, while returning from a mission while in battle in Vietnam, Corporal Wilson sacrificed his life to save the lives of his friends and comrades. He was awarded the Medal of Honor for his bravery and sacrifice. share: f t Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives voted by voice-vote to unanimously pass H.R. 6437, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 200 N Texas Avenue, Odessa, TX 79761 as the “Corporal Alfred ‘Mac’ Wilson Post Office Building”. On March 3, 1969, while returning from a mission while in battle in Vietnam, Corporal Wilson sacrificed his life to save the lives of his friends and comrades. He was awarded the Medal of Honor for his bravery and sacrifice. “It is with a heavy heart and deep gratitude that I bring the bill to the floor today to honor this great man,” said Conaway. “Mac graduated from Odessa High School the year after I graduated from Odessa Permian High School. Being the same age, I think back on the past 40 years packed full of memories that I have enjoyed, both the good and the bad, which Mac instinctively surrendered for his country and friends. The amount of sacrifice is incomprehensible.” Mac was born in Olney, Illinois, on January 13, 1948, to Mr. and Mrs. Edna and Fred Wilson. The family moved to Odessa, Texas in 1950. Mac attended Odessa High School, where he ran track and played football before his 1967 graduation. He enlisted in the Marine Corps in Abilene, Texas in the fall of 1967 on the "buddy plan" with high school friends Johnny Wright, Tom Chapman and Jimmy Whisenhunt. On July 21, 1968, then Private First Class Wilson was deployed to Vietnam as an infantry rifleman with Company M, Third Battalion, Ninth Marines, Third Marine Division. On March 3, 1969, while returning from a mission in Quang Tri Province, his platoon came under intense automatic weapon fire and grenade attack from a North Vietnamese Army. Mac, acting as squad leader, set his squad in a defensive position and began returning fire with the enemy. After many rounds were fired, his machine gunner and assistant machine gunner were seriously wounded, and their weapon had been thrown a distance from the squad. Realizing the importance of recovering the weapon, Private First Class Wilson, along with a fellow Marine, ran to retrieve the weapon in the midst of enemy fire. As they reached the machine gun, a North Vietnamese soldier threw a grenade at the Marine. Reacting instantly, Private First Class Wilson fired a burst from his M-16 rifle killing the enemy soldier. Observing the grenade fall between him and the other Marine, Private First Class Wilson shouted to his companion and instinctively threw himself on the grenade, absorbing the force of the explosion with his own body. His heroic actions inspired his platoon members to maximum effort as they aggressively attacked and defeated the enemy. Conaway went on to say, “Corporal Mac Wilson’s selflessness, courage, and deep devotion to his comrades and his country are the true attributes of a hero. It is my honor to name the Texas Avenue post office in Odessa after Mac as a small token of appreciation for his heroic service to our country. It is my hope that his memory will live on not only in the hearts of his family and friends, but also in the hearts of the citizens of his hometown of Odessa.” The Medal of Honor was presented to Mac Wilson’s family by Vice President Spiro T. Agnew on April 20, 1970, at the White House. Click here to watch Rep. Conaway discuss this legislation on the House Floor. ###
08.01.2008	Today, House Democrats voted to adjourn for the five-week district work period without so much as an attempt to reduce energy prices for hard-working Americans. With the embarrassingly low approval ratings of Congress, there is hardly anyone to blame but the Democrat leadership, who refuses to listen to the pleas of Americans across the country to increase domestic drilling for relief at the pump. share: f t Today, House Democrats voted to adjourn for the five-week district work period without so much as an attempt to reduce energy prices for hard-working Americans. With the embarrassingly low approval ratings of Congress, there is hardly anyone to blame but the Democrat leadership, who refuses to listen to the pleas of Americans across the country to increase domestic drilling for relief at the pump. Following an intemperate adjournment, House Republicans, along with hundreds of constituents from both political parties from across the U.S., have taken to the House Floor, chanting and cheering in a form of protest to call the House back to session for a vote to implement domestic drilling legislation. The Democrats have turned off all lights, cameras and microphones, but Republicans are being persistent in their efforts. “We are where we are today because of our reliance on foreign crude oil and natural gas, and that dependence is not going away in the near-term,” said Conaway. “Therefore we must deal with our current situation and drill for more domestic production and lower prices. It is that simple. But instead, my Democrat colleagues have chosen to scatter into the five-week recess without any vote addressing our energy crisis, leaving Americans to deal with five more long weeks of higher-than-necessary prices at the pump.” In addition, Congressman Conaway today sent an emergency letter to President Bush asking him to use the power vested in him by the Constitution to convene an immediate energy special session of Congress. Under Article II, Section 3 of the Constitution, the President has the power ‘on extraordinary occasions’ to convene the Congress. Conaway went on to say, “There is no quick-fix to our ongoing energy crisis. “But one thing is certain – we must increase domestic drilling for crude oil and natural gas. The majority refuses to focus on the immediate problem at-hand, and instead is looking decades into the future for possible solutions and ignoring today’s high gas prices. By choosing not to drill and not to use American resources now, we are basically accepting $4 gas prices and giving our money to corrupt leaders like Hugo Chavez in exchange for foreign sources of energy. The U.S. has vast resources available both in Alaska and offshore that we could be utilizing in an environmentally-sensitive manner, if only the Democrat leadership would bring legislation authorizing such drilling to the House Floor.” Click here to read a copy of the letter Congressman Conaway sent to President Bush.
07.24.2008	Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass The National Highway Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act (H.R. 3999). The legislation included language from Congressman Mike Conaway’s (TX-11) bill, the “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2008” (H.R. 6234), which he introduced last month. share: f t WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives voted to pass The National Highway Bridge Reconstruction and Inspection Act (H.R. 3999). The legislation included language from Congressman Mike Conaway’s (TX-11) bill, the “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2008” (H.R. 6234), which he introduced last month. “I am pleased that Chairman Oberstar agreed to the language I brought forward, and it is my hope that a corrosion prevention mitigation plan will be required in next year’s transportation reauthorization bill. The recent bridge collapses and closures should be a wakeup call for all lawmakers,” said Conaway. Conaway’s “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2008” sets new standards for bridges that receive federal funding by encourging states to develop corrosion mitigation and prevention plans for all bridges undergoing repair, rehabilitation or construction. The plans should contain an estimate of the expected useful life of the bridge, details of corrosion mitigation and prevention methods in construction and maintenance of the bridge, certification and approval by a corrosion expert and corrosion training for all bridge inspectors. H.R. 3999 authorizes appropriations of $2 billion for replacing or rehabilitating deficient and outdated bridges on federal-aid highways. The bill also includes several reporting requirements on the status of bridges and increases standards for bridge inspectors. Conaway went on to say, “The ongoing cost of corrosion on US bridges represents a risk that can be mitigated with proper planning and attention. I am pleased that my colleagues understand the importance of taking a proactive initiative on this issue. We cannot ignore the fact that lives have been lost due to past negligence, and more will be if we don’t address our nation’s aging infrastructure.” Congressman Oberstar (MN-8), Chairman of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, offered his approval on H.R. 6234, and plans to include the language in the 2009 Transportation bill. ###
07.24.2008	Today, the House Committee on Agriculture passed, in a bipartisan fashion, draft legislation that would amend the Commodity Exchange Act in an effort to provide greater transparency in the commodity market. The legislation will likely be brought to the House Floor next week for a vote. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement following passage of the bill in Committee: “Today, I voted in favor of a bill that would increase transparency in commodity markets. While there is no hard evidence that speculation is to blame for the run-up in energy prices, we, along with the CFTC must leave no rock unturned to ensure that illegal activity and market manipulation is not occurring. The only credible evidence shows prices are being set by the simple laws of supply and demand and devaluation of the dollar. This is why it is essential that Congress move immediately to begin increasing domestic energy production and work to lower the Federal deficit.” Conaway went on to say, “The chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), recently testified before our Committee and stated that the CFTC has been unable to prove or even establish a link between current speculators and prices. Furthermore, just this week, the CFTC published a report on crude oil that stated fundamentals of supply and demand, not speculative trading, explain the record rise in crude oil prices. We must distinguish between speculation and undue manipulation. Markets should never be manipulated. That is a crime. It is the duty of Congress to figure out what the actual root of the problem is and understand the conduct that should be regulated and the actions that should be taken before we move forward in haste. I want to thank Chairman Peterson for doing just that today. I would also implore Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Leadership to allow a vote on meaningful increased domestic energy production in protected areas such as ANWR, the Intermountain West region, and the Outer Continental Shelf to potentially develop millions of barrels of American crude oil and cubic feet of natural gas per day.” On July 22nd the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's Interagency Task Force on Commodity Markets released an interim report on crude oil, stating that “the Task Force’s preliminary analysis to date does not support the proposition that speculative activity has systematically driven changes in oil prices.” The full report can be located here. Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
07.24.2008	Today, after months of House Republicans urging that a meaningful and productive energy bill be brought to the floor, the Democrat Leadership brought the “Consumer Energy Supply Act of 2008” (H.R. 6578) up for a vote. This legislation is neither productive nor responsible, but does show that Democrats are willing to concede that supply matters. Like all other legislation proposed thus far by Speaker Pelosi and the Democratic Leadership, this legislation would not lead to any new oil or gas production. The legislation failed on the suspension calendar, which requires 2/3’s majority support for passage. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made these comments following the vote: “Today the Democrats tried to pull another gimmick on the American public by calling for a drawdown on the Strategic Petroleum Reserve of roughly seventy million barrels of crude oil. The American public consumes roughly twenty two million barrels of crude oil per day and world consumption is well over eighty million barrels per day. So, in affect seventy million barrels represents less than four days worth of domestic demand. With such facts noted, it must be the case that Speaker Pelosi’s long-term energy plan is roughly four days long. I think that Congress is expected to look a bit further ahead than that. Yet, today does mark an important milestone: it was finally recognized and publicly stated by the Democratic Leadership that an increase of supply into the market will ultimately lower prices and as a result provide much needed relief at the pump. With these facts finally agreed to, I would call on the Speaker to finally allow for a vote on increased American-made energy production.” This week House Republicans introduced the American Energy Act (H.R. 6566) to increase the supply of American-made energy into the market place. Republicans will continue to push Democratic leaders in both the House and the Senate to schedule the bill for a vote before the August recess, which is just eight days away. Conaway went on to say, “At a time when our foreign sources of crude are from areas subject to constant turmoil such as Venezuela and Nigeria a ten percent reduction in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve is an unnecessary risk. This action would be inconsistent with sound strategic planning to protect the American public from the adverse impacts of any major disruptions in our imports of crude oil.” According the Department of Energy, the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is the largest stockpile of government-owned emergency crude oil in the world. Established in the aftermath of the 1973-74 oil embargo, the SPR provides the President with a powerful response option should a disruption in commercial oil supplies threaten the U.S. economy. Its formidable size (700-plus million barrels) makes it a significant deterrent to oil import cutoffs and a key tool of foreign policy. ###
07.17.2008	Today, after weeks of House Republicans urging that a meaningful and productive energy bill be brought to the floor, the Democrat Leadership brought the DRILL Bill (H.R. 6515) to the floor which is neither productive nor responsible. In all actuality this bill, better known as the ‘Use-It-Or-Lose-It’ bill, would not lead to any new oil or gas production or lower gas prices for the American people. share: f t Today, after weeks of House Republicans urging that a meaningful and productive energy bill be brought to the floor, the Democrat Leadership brought the DRILL Bill (H.R. 6515) to the floor which is neither productive nor responsible. In all actuality this bill, better known as the ‘Use-It-Or-Lose-It’ bill, would not lead to any new oil or gas production or lower gas prices for the American people. “Speaker Pelosi once again ignored the overwhelming call from the American public to move towards increasing our domestic energy supply,” said Conaway. “The bill that I voted against today would do nothing to increase supplies. By using “energy” legislation as a handout to unions, we are actually hampering the progress of producing a real energy solution.” Under current law, energy companies are already required to utilize acquired leases within the five to 10 year primary term of the leases. The expired leases revert back to the federal government. H.R. 6515 would duplicate current law by requiring that a company or individual must work towards developing any existing leases on federal lands. The bill would also require annual lease sales in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska (NPR-A). There is already an ongoing leasing program in the NRP-A, and the legislation considered today would not open any new areas for development. Among other provisions is one that would ban the export of Alaskan oil. It should be noted that no oil has been exported from Alaska since 2000. Today, Conaway, along with 68 other House Republicans, sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi urging her to immediately schedule legislation to increase energy supply in the market. We must open up Alaska, the Intermountain West region, and the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) to potentially develop millions of barrels per day. Conaway went on to say, “It is time that we stop placing the blame on speculators, oil companies, OPEC, various conspiracy theories. If Congress wants to find the true obstructionist to increased American-made energy, the Democratic Leadership needs to look no further than in the mirror. It’s high-time for Democrats in Congress to follow our lead, act on real solutions and cease pointing fingers and playing the blame game. The American people want and deserve better.” Click here to view a copy of the letter sent to Speaker Pelosi. The bill did not pass the House. ###
07.16.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Horseshoe Bay Fire Department was granted $417,620 from the 2007 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Award administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant is to be used for safety and operations. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund firefighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States. “Just as firefighters work every day to keep our communities safe, Congress recognizes the importance of the safety of our firefighters,” said Conaway. “These grants are fundamental to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to help meet their needs.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/.
07.15.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), along House Republican Whip Roy Blunt (MO-7) and Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-2) held a session for Members of Congress to discuss the basics of the oil and gas industry, from the initial lease of land, through the drilling process, and leading up to the production of oil. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), along House Republican Whip Roy Blunt (MO-7) and Congressman Trent Franks (AZ-2) held a session for Members of Congress to discuss the basics of the oil and gas industry, from the initial lease of land, through the drilling process, and leading up to the production of oil. “Many Members of Congress do not understand the 101 of the oil and gas industry,” said Conaway. “It is important to comprehend the basics, and realize exactly what goes into the production of crude oil and natural gas, in order to recognize the importance of keeping our energy production domestic.” Included in the presentation were the topics of: pre-drilling activities, drilling activities, producing activities, regulatory concerns and supply issues. Additional sessions are planned for the next two weeks. ###
07.14.2008	applaud the leadership of President Bush in his decision to lift the ban on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). It is my hope that the actions of the President will spur Democrats in Congress to join Republicans in supporting lifting the moratorium that is currently in place. share: f t Today, President Bush, in an effort to combat ever-rising gas prices, lifted an executive ban on offshore drilling that has been in place since 1990. Following the announcement Congressman Conaway (TX-11) made the following remarks: “I applaud the leadership of President Bush in his decision to lift the ban on drilling in the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). It is my hope that the actions of the President will spur Democrats in Congress to join Republicans in supporting lifting the moratorium that is currently in place. The President’s move will do nothing unless Congress follows suit and listens to the American people by removing the obstacle of its own moratoria on OCS drilling.” President George H.W. Bush in 1990 issued a presidential directive ordering the Department of the Interior (DOI) not to conduct offshore leasing or preleasing activity in areas covered by the annual legislative moratoria until 2000. In 1998, President Clinton extended the offshore leasing prohibition until 2012. Congress has imposed moratoria on much of the OCS since 1982 through the annual Interior appropriation bills. “Deep water exploration can be conducted in a safe manner that does not damage the environment and provides additional production of crude oil. Having grown up in the Permian Basin and working as a roughneck, I know we can increase our production of American-made energy in a way that does not damage the environment. The current market price of oil is partly based on the belief that we will not drill in the Outer Continental Shelf and in the ANWR. Lifting these moratoriums is the best way to send the market a clear signal that America is serious about increasing production of our own energy resources and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. Speaker Pelosi’s ‘hoax’ comments again shows a lack of understanding of the free-market.” According to the Congressional Research Service, the Department of the Interior (DOI) released a comprehensive inventory of OCS resources in February 2006 that estimated reserves of 8.5 billion barrels of oil and 29.3 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. Another 86 billion barrels of oil and 420 tcf of natural gas are classified as undiscovered resources. Last week in her weekly press conference Speaker Pelosi stated that “This call for drilling in areas that are protected is a hoax, it’s an absolute hoax on the part of the Republicans and this administration.”
07.11.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – This week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) participated in a three-day series of hearings in the Agriculture Committee to review various pieces of commodity trading legislation that were recently introduced. Conaway made the following statement after the conclusion of the hearings: share: f t This week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) participated in a three-day series of hearings in the Agriculture Committee to review various pieces of commodity trading legislation that were recently introduced. Conaway made the following statement after the conclusion of the hearings: “There is conventional wisdom that speculators are having an undue influence on the price of crude oil. Over the course of this week, we have been trying to figure out if that is an accurate statement, or if it is just a response of frustration aimed at high prices. So far, the only credible evidence shows that crude oil prices are being set by the simple laws of supply and demand and the devaluation of the U.S. dollar, which is why it is essential that we increase the supply of domestic energy production. Walter Lukken, chairman of the CFTC, previously testified that while they look for market manipulation meticulously, they have yet to be able to prove, or even to establish a link between, current speculators and current prices. We must distinguish between speculation and undue manipulation. Markets should never be manipulated – that is a crime. However, the prospect of speculating in markets is part of the process. In order to have a willing buyer for every seller and a willing seller for every buyer, you must have speculators in the market. This issue is one that has gotten heavy coverage in the media, and many Americans strongly believe there is a direct link between the number of speculators in the market and the rapid run up in the price of crude oil. However, when trying to craft laws and responses to circumstances, we must figure out what went wrong and understand the conduct that should be regulated before we try to figure out how to regulate the conduct. I am proud of the work that Chairman Peterson has done thus far in the Agriculture Committee to get facts on the table before trying to move legislation on the House Floor. I look forward to participating in the mark-up legislation should we find that necessary.” Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
06.26.2008	Under the second amendment of the U.S. Constitution, every citizen has the right to defend themselves; yet for more than thirty years, this right has been denied to the citizens of Washington, D.C. For years, lawmakers have been working to overturn this ban, and I am pleased to be a part of this victorious event that is sure to go down in the history books. share: f t After hearing today’s news that the United States Supreme Court ruled to overturn the unconstitutional District of Columbia gun ban, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: “Today’s Supreme Court ruling is a monumental victory for not only citizens of the District of Columbia, but for all Americans. Specifically, the Supreme Court determined that the second amendment is intended as an individual right, and not a collective right of the state. Under the second amendment of the U.S. Constitution, every citizen has the right to defend themselves; yet for more than thirty years, this right has been denied to the citizens of Washington, D.C. For years, lawmakers have been working to overturn this ban, and I am pleased to be a part of this victorious event that is sure to go down in the history books.” The handgun ban had been in place in the District since 1976. Today’s ruling was the first major second amendment ruling in 70 years.
06.25.2008	Buddy lived a full and purposeful life in his 71 years on this earth. His legacy as a Texas legislator will serve as an example to Texas lawmakers for years to come. He was a longtime friend who served the people of West Texas with strong conviction and passion. He will be forever missed, but never forgotten. Suzanne and my thoughts are with Shirley and the rest of his family during this time. share: f t After hearing today’s news of the passing of George E. “Buddy” West, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: “Buddy lived a full and purposeful life in his 71 years on this earth. His legacy as a Texas legislator will serve as an example to Texas lawmakers for years to come. He was a longtime friend who served the people of West Texas with strong conviction and passion. He will be forever missed, but never forgotten. Suzanne and my thoughts are with Shirley and the rest of his family during this time.” Buddy West served eight terms in the Texas legislature. His final term was set to end on December 31, 2008.
06.24.2008	Congressman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), and Congressman Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) have introduced legislation that repeals section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA) which became law last year. Section 526 prohibits federal agencies from contracting for nonconventional, or alternative, fuels that emit higher levels of greenhouse gas emissions than “conventional petroleum sources.” Though short, this section – which raises concerns over national security, economic security, and bureaucratic uncertainty – has powerful and harmful implications and needs to be repealed immediately. Section 526 was added to the 2007 Energy bill largely to stifle the Defense Department’s plans to buy coal-based jet fuels, which radical environmentalists contend will ultimately produce more greenhouse gas emissions than would traditional petroleum—a contention that is uncertain at best and does not consider ongoing improvements in carbon-capture technologies. The Air Force is interested in procuring unconventional fuels over the long-term as a way to reduce its reliance on fuels from unfriendly or unstable countries and increasing its use of fuels from North America. Coal-to-liquids, oil shale, and tar sands are all abundant in the United States and Canada. The Air Force wants to use its purchasing power to spur the development of a domestic coal-based synthetic fuel industry by signing long-term fuel contracts with coal-based fuel producers, ensuring that producers have a guaranteed market to offset the millions of dollars in up-front investment needed to produce coal-based fuel. Canada is currently the largest U.S. oil supplier, sending 1.8 million barrels of crude oil and 500,000 barrels of refined products per day to the United States in 2006. About half of Canadian crude is derived from oil sands, with sands production forecast to reach about 3 million barrels per day in 2015. Section 526 could choke this flow of fuel from one of our nation’s most reliable allies and economic partners. Section 526 would be problematic enough if it were written clearly, however the language contains ambiguities, causing a flurry of attempts at legislative interpretation by the Air Force, the Canadian Government, the Center for Unconventional Fuels, and even the proponents of the language. Some claim that a study is needed to determine if coal-based fuel is clean enough to use under the law. Others claim that Section 526 does not apply to the military, while proponents claim that it most certainly does. Hensarling, Conaway, and Blackburn issued the following statements on a discharge petition filed by Congressman Randy Kuhl (R-NY) to force Democratic leaders to schedule on their bill, H.R. 5656: HENSARLING STATEMENT: “Section 526 is a perfect example of a misguided provision covertly tucked into a broad piece of legislation shortly before it was passed. “Not only could Section 526 result in increased fuel costs for our military, it severely restricts the Pentagon’s ability to get fuels from our strongest allies, putting our national and economic security at risk by forcing increased petroleum importation from unstable or even dangerous counties. At a time when American forces are combating terrorists abroad, the Pentagon must have the versatility to secure and develop alternative sources of fuel. Given the enormous consequences and potential harms to both our national and economic security, we need to repeal Section 526 immediately. “As prices at the pump continue to soar, Americans are calling out for relief and we hear them loud and clear. If the Democrat controlled Congress is serious about finding alternative energy sources, they will support this common-sense action. With all of the potential dangers in the modern word, the Defense Department should not be wasting its time studying fuel emissions and should not have to be stifled by the arguments over how to interpret a small section of an energy law. CONAWAY STATEMENT: “I have long stated that with record-setting prices at the pump, Americans are desperate for real relief. Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act handcuffs the Federal Government to only conventional sources of diesel, gasoline, or jet fuel thus barring the purchase of American coal shale, American tar sands and American coal to liquid fuel. It does not make sense to restrict our access to American fossil fuels and then continue buying those same fuels from countries that are, at best, not our allies.” BLACKBURN STATEMENT: “Innovation on the part of the Air Force helped put a man on the moon, break the sound barrier, defend the country from ballistic missile attack, and surgically strike our enemies wherever they are in the world. This is an area where national security must trump experimental environmental policy. Democrats trust their enviro-radical allies’ opposition to energy independence more than the innovative capacity of our military. The “pay more, drive less” policy that liberal Democrats have adopted for America simply can’t be applied to the Department of Defense. A decade ago, Democrats said that missile defense was technologically impossible and the Air Force has proven them wrong. Today, Democrats say that carbon based fuels with low greenhouse gas emissions are also impossible. I know that if given a free hand, the Air Force will prove them wrong again.”
06.20.2008	Last fall, U.S. Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Gene Green (D-TX) introduced the bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act. Today, the resolution has 220 cosponsors and has received a high volume of response from all over the country. The Local Radio Freedom Act declares Congress’ support of free local radio and opposes any new performance fees, taxes, royalties or other charges relating to the public performance of sound recordings on a local radio station for broadcasting sound recordings. "I am pleased at the overwhelming support that has been received for this legislation from both my colleagues and the local radio stations,” said Rep. Conaway. “Communities rely on local radio stations to relay important weather information, national emergency information, and important news that will affect their community. The suggested performance taxes on local radio would devastate small local broadcasters in rural areas and ultimately hurt small businesses and consumers.” There have been rumblings in Congress recently about trying to add a “performance tax” on local radio broadcasters, making them pay for the music they play. Local radio broadcasters provide thousands of hours of essential information to their communities. By imposing a performance fee, thousands of radio stations will suffer economic hardship as will other small businesses and ultimately the American consumers who rely on the stations for local news, weather, etc. The resolution also says that radio promotes the recording industry’s product. “Radio provides free exposure and promotion for record labels’ acts; broadcasters shouldn’t have to pay labels for the privilege of supporting them. If the stations ‘pay to play,’ the cost will go up for everyone and free over-the-air radio could be hurt,” Rep. Green said. The bipartisan resolution was introduced with 51 original cosponsors.
06.19.2008	Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 6289, the Family-Owned Farms and Small Businesses Act of 2008. This legislation would increase the special use valuation for farms up to $1,850,000 and increase the qualified family-owned business interest deduction to $2,000,000. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 6289, the Family-Owned Farms and Small Businesses Act of 2008. This legislation would increase the special use valuation for farms up to $1,850,000 and increase the qualified family-owned business interest deduction to $2,000,000. “The increasing value of farm and ranch real estate is making it increasingly difficult for farmers and ranchers to pass on their working ranches and farms in the hands of their descendents without the burden of the estate tax,” said Conaway. “This legislation specifically targets those family farms, ranches and small businesses who will be hit by the estate tax the hardest if the tax is not permanently repealed.” In 2000, there were 108,322 farms and small businesses that filed estate tax returns. The average value for farms and small businesses in the year 2000 was over $2 million. In 2011, the Estate Tax rate will be at 55% for all estates valued over $1 million. Congressman Mike Conaway is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a former small business owner.
06.19.2008	After nearly 18 months of the Democrat leadership repeatedly bringing ill-advised, misguided troop legislation to the floor, they have finally decided to join House Republicans to comprise a troop funding bill that the President will sign and will fund our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the emergency war supplemental to continue funding for our troops in combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, and our veterans returning from combat. Congressman Mike Conaway, who voted in favor of this bipartisan funding bill, made this statement following the vote: “After nearly 18 months of the Democrat leadership repeatedly bringing ill-advised, misguided troop legislation to the floor, they have finally decided to join House Republicans to comprise a troop funding bill that the President will sign and will fund our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. This emergency supplemental spending bill will send our troops the funding they need to continue the fight without restricting commanders in the field with politically-motivated limitations. It also provides long-overdue modernization of the GI bill, which will give new resources to help our veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan get a better education. It also allows veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to transfer benefits to his or her spouse and children. This bipartisan package is long-overdue and will help to further strengthen America’s strong volunteer military force. In addition, this bill will provide necessary funding for the flooding in the Midwest.” Congressman Mike Conaway is a member of the House Armed Services Committee.
06.12.2008	The “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2008” sets new standards for bridges that receive federal funding by requiring the states to develop corrosion mitigation and prevention plans for all bridges undergoing repair, rehabilitation or construction. share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced H.R. 6234, the “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2008”. “The recent bridge collapses and closures should be a wakeup call for lawmakers,” said Conaway. “Our nation’s infrastructure is crumbling due to improper planning, negligence and inadequate management at all levels of governments.” The “Bridge Life Extension Act of 2008” sets new standards for bridges that receive federal funding by requiring the states to develop corrosion mitigation and prevention plans for all bridges undergoing repair, rehabilitation or construction. The states will be required to submit the outlined plans to the Secretary of Transportation for approval before Federal funds are granted. The plans must contain expected useful life of the bridge, details of corrosion mitigation and prevention methods in construction and maintenance of the bridge, certification and approval by a corrosion expert and corrosion training for all bridge inspectors. Conaway went on to say, “The ongoing cost of corrosion on US bridges represents a needless waste of taxpayer dollars. It is my hope that my colleagues understand the importance of taking a proactive initiative and pass this important legislation. We cannot ignore the fact that lives have been lost due to past negligence, and more will be if we don’t address our nation’s aging infrastructure.” On August 2, 2007, the Interstate 35 bridge in Minneapolis collapsed, killing 13 people and injuring 125. The bridge had been found in “poor” condition for 17 consecutive years before the collapse. Last week, Highway 43 in Winona, Minnesota closed abruptly, leaving commuters to cross the Mississippi River by ferry after corrosion in the gusset plates was discovered.
06.11.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that Lampasas County has received two grants from the Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA) to continue to fund repairs from damage caused by the June/July 2007 floods in the area. “I am more than pleased that Lampasas County has received this grant,” said Conaway. “Beginning on June 16, 2007, a series of heavy storms struck Texas bringing heavy rain and widespread flooding, causing severe damage throughout the State. Based on the extent of the damage, federal assistance was needed to help several areas, including Lampasas County. This funding will continue to help rebuild the damaged roads and drainage systems that were destroyed in the floods.” Two ORCA grants were awarded to Lampasas County, totaling $471,162. The funds shall be used to repair 40 damaged county roads and drainage improvements at ten locations. These funds are made available from appropriations for the Community Development Block Grant Program of the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. This program is administered by ORCA. For more information on the ORCA Community Development Block Grant program, please visit their website at: http://www.orca.state.tx.us/index.php/Community+Development/CDBG+General+Info.
06.11.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that Menard County has received two grants from the Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA) to continue to fund repairs made from the July 2007 floods in the area. “I am more than pleased that Menard County has received this grant,” said Conaway. “In July of 2007, a series of heavy storms struck Texas bringing heavy rain and widespread flooding, causing severe damage throughout the State. Based on the extent of the damage, federal assistance was needed to help several areas, including Menard County. This funding will continue to help rebuild the damaged roads and drainage systems that were destroyed in the floods.” The ORCA grant awarded to Menard County totaled $82,933, and shall be used to reconstruct portions of 93 county roads damaged by the July 2007 floods. These funds are made available from appropriations for the Community Development Block Grant Program of the US Department of Housing and Urban Development. This program is administered by ORCA. For more information on the ORCA Community Development Block Grant program, please visit their website at: http://www.orca.state.tx.us/index.php/Community+Development/CDBG+General+Info .
06.10.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that Angelo State University has received a grant in the amount of $32,078 to fund the Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship program. “I am more than pleased that Angelo State University has received this grant,” said Conaway. “Nurses are an integral part of every community, and it is essential that they receive the proper education and training to perform to the best of their ability in the workplace. This grant will make it easier for students to pursue a career in nursing and, in turn, improve the lives of many living in the San Angelo area.” Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship supports individuals preparing to be nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, nurse midwives, nurse anesthetists, nurse educators, nurse administrators, public health nurses, and other nurse specialists requiring advanced education. This grant was awarded by the Department of Health and Human Services through the office of Health Resources and Services Administration. For more information on the Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship grants, please visit their website at http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/nursing/grantprograms.htm.
05.22.2008	Representative Mike Conaway offered relief to American families at the gas pump through the Republican Motion to Recommit to the 2009 National Defense Authorization Act. The Republican Motion to Recommit repealed Section 526 in last year’s Energy Independence and Security Act that restricts the federal government from buying non-conventional fuels and expedites the construction of three new oil and gasoline refineries on closed military base sites. share: f t Today, Representative Mike Conaway offered relief to American families at the gas pump through the Republican Motion to Recommit to the 2009 National Defense Authorization Act. The Republican Motion to Recommit repealed Section 526 in last year’s Energy Independence and Security Act that restricts the federal government from buying non-conventional fuels and expedites the construction of three new oil and gasoline refineries on closed military base sites. “With record-setting prices at the pump, Americans are desperate for real relief,” said Conaway. “Section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act handcuffs the Federal Government to only conventional sources of diesel, gasoline, or jet fuel thus barring the purchase of American coal shale, American tar sands and American coal to liquid fuel. It does not make sense to restrict our access to American fossil fuels and then continue buying those same fuels from countries that are, at best, not our allies.” The refinery provision in the Motion to Recommit would require the Secretary of Energy to expedite approval of three closed military base sites for possible locations for new oil and natural gas refineries. These sites would be required to pass all federal, state and local permit requirements and require the approval from the Governor of each respective site’s state. The Motion to Recommit was failed on a party line vote of 186-223. Conaway said, “It is unfortunate that my Democratic colleagues continually fail to address our energy supply needs. My Motion to Recommit is one solution out of many that would have lowered the price of gasoline at the pump and put us on a path of greater energy independence.” Click here to watch Rep. Conaway offer the motion on the floor. Click here for more information on the Republican plan to lower gas prices and increase energy production.
05.22.2008	Today, House Republicans released an energy legislation package that is a product of the House Energy Security and Climate Change Task Force, who developed the legislation after four months of hearing from experts in the energy industry. “With record-setting prices at the pump, Americans are desperate for real relief,” said Conaway. “By cutting through the bureaucratic red tape and increasing the supply of domestic energy, prices at the pump will significantly decrease.” The Republican plan for energy security will increase the production of domestic energy in an environmentally-safe manner. This includes the exploration of oil, natural gas, and coal and the production of alternative nuclear and renewable energy from sources such as wind and hydroelectric power for future generations. Conaway went on to say, “The House majority has passed bill after bill that will increase costs to generate energy, and yet my Democrat colleagues continuously complain about the high prices that are a direct result of the policies they put in place. In fact, earlier this week, the House passed a bill to unleash the Department of Justice on the very producers that we want to produce more crude oil and natural gas. It is past time to get serious about real energy reform.” Contributing to the task force, Conaway, along with Congressman Jeb Hensarling (TX-5), discussed a bill they introduced (HR 5656) to repeal section 526 of the Majority-led “No” Energy bill that raises economic and national security concerns. Section 526 was included in the Energy bill mainly to prevent the Department of Defense from buying coal-based jet fuels, which environmentalists insist produce more greenhouse gases than traditional petroleum. However, this theory is not proven and does not account for our current ongoing improvements in carbon-capture technologies. “It is irrational to place new energy restrictions on the DOD during an energy crisis,” said Conaway. “We must work for greater energy independence and that means keeping all options open. In preventing the procurement of American produced resources, Section 526 will increase our reliance on Middle East oil.” Click here for more information on the Republican plan to lower gas prices and increase energy production
05.21.2008	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to override a Presidential veto of H.R. 2419, the "Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008”, most commonly referred to as the Farm Bill. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement after the override vote: “It is a widely held axiom that good agriculture policy is good Federal policy. This Farm Bill is a fulfillment of that very statement. This legislation will continue a safety net for America’s producers and consumers while providing a great return on investment to the American taxpayer. The commodity market is an extremely unpredictable place in which our producers have no ability set the price for their products. Furthermore, farmers and ranchers in all areas of the world are forced to deal with uncontrollable production risks that could at any time, wipe out an entire year’s income in a moment’s notice. These are fundamentals that will never change and I firmly believe that we will always have a need for policies and mechanisms to address these issues. This long-overdue and extremely important piece of legislation, once law, will return a sense of certainty to farmers, ranchers and rural America. The Farm Bill has an important impact on every single American and I strongly support this bipartisan Act and urge a yes vote to override the President’s veto.” Click here to watch Congressman Conaway in Farm Bill Debate
05.15.2008	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on three amendments to the War Supplemental. In a rare turn of events, House Republicans came together to vote ‘present’ on the amendment to provide troop funding, causing the amendment to fail. This maneuver was done to send a message to Democrats and the American people of the need for a clean troop funding bill that is not packed with extra domestic spending and hefty tax increases. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on three amendments to the War Supplemental. In a rare turn of events, House Republicans came together to vote ‘present’ on the amendment to provide troop funding, causing the amendment to fail. This maneuver was done to send a message to Democrats and the American people of the need for a clean troop funding bill that is not packed with extra domestic spending and hefty tax increases. “I strongly support all American men and women in uniform,” said Conaway. “I support their mission, and I support providing the Department of Defense, and all agencies involved in the Global War on Terrorism, with the best resources and tools available to win the mission against the Islamic Jihadists. I do not, however, support politics that interfere with and possibly compromise the mission of our military. House Leadership must get serious about developing a supplemental package that is clean, straightforward, and is not loaded with domestic pork and tax hikes.” The Democrats have more than enough votes to pass their spending excesses and tax increases, under regular order, without using the welfare of our troops as a shield against their own “PAY-GO” rules. House Democrats included an amendment in the War Supplemental that would implement a $51.6 Billion tax increase on individuals and couples to be used to pay for expanded GI benefits. This is bad policy that seeks to name winners and losers, and I will not support such maneuvers. Conaway went on to say, “This erroneous tax increase could affect many small businesses in District 11 and across the country. While I support initiatives to improve Veterans programs, we should not resort to funding such programs by raising taxes, when funds from wasteful spending projects could, and should, be redirected.” An amendment was also included that incorporates withdrawal language for U.S. Armed Forces to begin withdrawal within 30 days and to have a completion goal of 18 months. “I will not support any language that will put a time restraint on the missions in Iraq and Afghanistan,” said Conaway. “Although politics may differ, I believe that the support for our men and women in uniform is undeniable, and we are working diligently to ensure their needs are met and the Department of Defense can carry out its mission of ensuring national security.” Congressman Conaway voted ‘present’ on the amendment to provide troop funding, ‘nay’ to the tax increase amendment, and ‘nay’ to the withdrawal amendment. Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Armed Services Committee.
05.14.2008	The Farm Bill that passed the House today is in the best interest of agriculture producers and consumers across the country. By passing this long-overdue and extremely important piece of legislation, a sense of certainty will be returned to farmers, ranchers and rural America. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the Farm Bill (H.R. 2419, the Food Conservation and Energy Act of 2008) by a overwhelming bipartisan vote of 318 to 106, more than the two-thirds margin necessary to override a potential Presidential veto. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made these comments following the vote: “The Farm Bill that passed the House today is in the best interest of agriculture producers and consumers across the country. By passing this long-overdue and extremely important piece of legislation, a sense of certainty will be returned to farmers, ranchers and rural America. Since coming to Congress, I am proud to have worked alongside many Members on both sides of the aisle on such a critical piece of legislation whose effects reach far and touch many. The Farm Bill has an impact on every single American and I am proud to have had a role in the crafting of this bipartisan resolution. In the event that President Bush vetoes this legislation, as he has threatened to do, I will not only cast my vote to override the veto, but work to ensure that any such action is defeated. It is my expectation that any Presidential veto will be overridden and the legislation passed today will become law.” The Senate is expected to begin debating the bill this afternoon, with a vote on final passage coming as early as tomorrow morning. Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
05.09.2008	The U.S. Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration announced that San Angelo Mathis Field Regional Airport has received a grant in the amount of $3,000,000. This grant will provide funds to rehabilitate the air carrier apron to extend the useful life of the pavement. “Aircraft safety on the ground is equally as important as aircraft safety in the skies,” said Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11). “Congress recognizes the need for reconstruction to keep our runways, aircrafts, and visitors coming to and from San Angelo Mathis Field safe. It is grants such as this that allow Mathis Field to continue to thrive, and I applaud the DOT and FAA for granting these funds.” For more information on the Department of Transportation/Federal Aviation Administration grants for Airport Planning and Development please visit their website at http://www.faa.gov/airports_airtraffic/airports/aip/.
05.08.2008	I am pleased that my colleagues were able to work together to come to a compromise on a Farm Bill that is in the best interest of our country. America’s agriculture community has been waiting too long for productive legislation that is cost-effective for the American taxpayer and will protect our farmers, ranchers, and consumers. share: f t Last night, Farm Bill conferees finished negotiations and unveiled a bipartisan Farm Bill that should be brought to the House Floor next week for a vote. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the announcement: “I am pleased that my colleagues were able to work together to come to a compromise on a Farm Bill that is in the best interest of our country. America’s agriculture community has been waiting too long for productive legislation that is cost-effective for the American taxpayer and will protect our farmers, ranchers, and consumers. I am eager to get the Farm Bill on the House floor next week for a vote and on to the President’s desk. In the event that President Bush vetoes this legislation, I will vote to override the veto. It is past time to ensure that sound federal agriculture policy is enacted for the American farmer.” Although the President has not said if he will veto the Farm Bill, there is also a possibility that the bill could become law without his signature. As it states in the U.S. Constitution, if the President does not act on legislation for ten days (with the exception of Sundays, while the House is in session), the bill will automatically become law without the President’s signature.
05.06.2008	A recent study by ICF and the American Petroleum Institute (API) have proven that climate change legislation (S. 2191, the Lieberman-Warner cap-and-trade climate bill) currently pending in Congress could actually significantly reduce clean-burning natural gas production and outsource refining jobs overseas. share: f t A recent study by ICF and the American Petroleum Institute (API) have proven that climate change legislation (S. 2191, the Lieberman-Warner cap-and-trade climate bill) currently pending in Congress could actually significantly reduce clean-burning natural gas production and outsource refining jobs overseas. “At a time when gas prices are getting higher by the day and our nation needs more domestic supplies of energy sources, it is essential that Congress take any and all legislation brought to the floor on this issue seriously,” said U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (TX-11). “Congress must take a balanced and logical approach to energy and climate change policy to protect consumers from further price escalations.” While the study did not look at the direct impact of the bill on consumers, the EIA said the bill would “increase energy prices and energy bills for consumers” and “increase the cost of using energy, which reduces real economic output, reduces purchasing power, and lowers aggregate demand for goods and services.” The U.S. oil and natural gas industry has been addressing the issue of climate change through investments in alternative energy and emission improvement technologies, as well as through energy efficiency operations within the oil and natural gas industry. In fact, they invested about $42 billion in greenhouse gas emission improvement technologies from 2000 to 2006, representing 45 percent of the almost $94 billion spent on these technologies by all U.S. industries and the federal government. Conaway went on to say, “It is important that the American public realize the hard work that is being done by oil and gas companies to combat our nation’s energy crisis. For years, America’s oil and gas companies of all sizes have been leading the way in researching alternative energy technologies, all while continuing to provide traditional energy domestically. We should not allow these companies to be maligned during this energy crisis, but instead applaud them for their dedication to finding alternative sources of energy for the future of our country.”
05.05.2008	This past Saturday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition at Howard Payne University in Brownwood, Texas. Shirley Vessels, a Goldthwaite High School freshman, was awarded first place with her graphite piece, “My Brother – The Navy Man”. “Every year I continue to be impressed by the immense level of artistic talent these young artists present in the Congressional Art Competition,” said Conaway. “We had 31 entries from high schools across District 11, and the work that the students put forward was extraordinary. I want to congratulate Shirley on winning the art competition with her touching graphite piece. For the next year, her work will hang inside the Capitol for members of Congress and thousands of visitors to see.” Ms. Vessels artwork will be sent to Washington, DC to be hung in the Cannon Tunnel, a walkway inside the U.S. Capitol Building. This walkway is used by Members of Congress, congressional staff, and the general public as they enter the Capitol. The annual exhibit represents the combined efforts of Members of Congress, students, and teachers who encourage their students to enter the competition. The winning art entry from each District is displayed in the Capitol for one year. The panel of judges consisted of Professor Ann Smith, the head of the Howard Payne University Art department, and Cathi Ball, instructor of art at Howard Payne. Ms. Vessels will receive complimentary framing for her entry, three complimentary airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the opening of the exhibit in Washington, DC, as well as two nights lodging. Second place was awarded to Jonathan Moore, a sophomore at Robert E. Lee High School in Midland for his charcoal piece entitled “Final Shot”. Third place went to Noemi Martinez, a senior at Mullin High School for her work entitled “Tea for Two”. Fourth place went to Tasha Krueger of Goldthwaite High School, and the Honorable Mention went to Connie Mann of McCamey High School. With the artists’ permission, the other winners artwork will be hung in Congressman Conaway’s offices throughout the District 11 for the next year.
04.23.2008	Today, Congressman Conaway announced that McCulloch County has been awarded a Disaster Relief Fund grant in the amount of $343,072 from the Office of Rural Community Affairs (ORCA). “I am pleased that McCulloch County was awarded this disaster relief grant,” said Conaway. “The damage that the area has sustained due to heavy flooding in the area has left roads, bridges and drainage systems in need of repair. Due to this grant, the County will have the ability to make the repairs necessary to ensure the safety of its citizens.” The Disaster Relief Fund grant will be used for street improvements and flood and drainage improvements. These funds are made available from appropriations for the Community Development Block Grant Program of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. This program is administered for the State of Texas by the Office of Rural Community Affairs through the Texas Community Development Block Grant (TxCDBG) Program. Click here for more information on this type of grant.
04.18.2008	The United States and South Korea announced a deal to reopen South Korean markets to U.S. beef and beef products of all cuts and all ages that are consistent with international standards and World Animal Health Organization (OIE) guidelines. The flow of product into the South Korean market could come as early as mid-May. share: f t Today the United States and South Korea announced a deal to reopen South Korean markets to U.S. beef and beef products of all cuts and all ages that are consistent with international standards and World Animal Health Organization (OIE) guidelines. The flow of product into the South Korean market could come as early as mid-May. “I am pleased to hear that South Korea will once again open its markets to U.S. beef and beef products. Soon South Koreans will once again be able to enjoy American beef of the highest quality and safety. I applaud the tireless effort of USTR in this process and the South Koreans for basing this decision on sound science and proven international safety standards. I also hope that Japan will take note of this decision and soon follow the lead of our friends in South Korea by reopening their markets to U.S. beef products.” In 2003 South Korea closed its market to U.S. beef after a case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) was discovered in the United States. Prior to 2003, South Korea was one of the largest export markets for U.S. beef. In 2003 alone, the United States exported $815 million in beef and beef products to South Korea, making the country our third largest export market at the time. “This action bodes well regarding our relationship with South Korea and effectively removes one of the largest hurdles in moving forward with the United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (KORUS FTA). South Korea is one of our largest trading partners and strongest allies in Asia. I look forward to working with United States Trade Representative Susan Schwab and others across the spectrum in advancing an agreement that will be good for American manufacturing, service and agriculture sectors.” According to USTR, South Korea is our seventh-largest trading partner, with a $1 trillion economy. Under the terms of the KORUS FTA, nearly 95 percent of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products will become duty-free within three years of entry, while two-thirds of U.S. agricultural products will become duty free immediately.
04.14.2008	Congressman K. Michael Conaway invites area high school seniors interested in attending one of the United States’ military service academies to apply for nominations through his office. The application period for students who will enter college next year ends October 27, 2008. Applicants should contact Congressman Conaway as soon as possible. Applications are available through the Congressman’s San Angelo Regional Office, 33 East Twohig, Suite 320, San Angelo, Texas, 76903. The telephone number is 325/659-4010. To be considered, applicants must be United States citizens, be residents of the llth Congressional District of Texas and be between the ages of 17 and 23 by July 1 of the year of admission. Selection is based on SAT and ACT test scores, class rank, grade point averages, extracurricular activities, leadership potential and motivation. CONTACT: JoAnne Powell (325)659-4010
04.10.2008	Today, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi brought a vote to the floor to remove the ninety-day timetable for considering the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, a move that indefinitely delays a final vote on the trade package. The measure passed by a party-line vote of 224-195. share: f t Today, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi brought a vote to the floor to remove the ninety-day timetable for considering the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement, a move that indefinitely delays a final vote on the trade package. The measure passed by a party-line vote of 224-195. “I am very disappointed that Speaker Pelosi is committed to changing the rules in order to delay consideration of an agreement that is important not only to our economy, but to our national security as well,” said Conaway. “There has been an increased instability in the region, but Colombia and President Uribe have been proven allies, and this agreement is essential in continuing that progress and cooperation. Passage of this agreement would represent an increase of food exports alone to Colombia by nearly $700 million a year, providing additional markets and economic boosts for agriculture producing states such as Texas.” According to the U.S. International Trade Commission, under the agreement, tariffs of up to 35 percent would be immediately repealed for a large swath of U.S. goods imported to Colombia, producing an increase of more than $1 billion in exports. While 90 percent of Colombian products currently shipped to the United States are free from tariffs, most U.S. exports face significant tariffs and other restrictions when entering Colombia. According to the Secretary of Agriculture, Ed Schafer, Beef, pork, wheat, and barley are the U.S. products most likely to receive the highest level of benefits. For example, presently, U.S. beef faces an 80 percent tariff upon entry into Colombia. Passage of the Colombia FTA would immediately eliminate many tariffs on U.S. beef while phasing out all other tariffs on American beef and beef products over a 15 year time span. Conaway went on to say, “A vote to delay consideration of this bill is a vote to kill this bill. The future of this trade agreement rests solely in the hands of Speaker Pelosi, and it is up to her as Speaker of the House to decide whether or not this important legislation is brought to the floor for a vote. I will work with my colleagues to urge her to do so.”
04.09.2008	Today, House Armed Services Committee Republicans called on Speaker Pelosi to work with the House Appropriations Committee to move the Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental for the Global War on Terrorism without further delay. share: f t Today, House Armed Services Committee Republicans called on Speaker Pelosi to work with the House Appropriations Committee to move the Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental for the Global War on Terrorism without further delay. During testimony before the House Armed Services Committee this afternoon, the Vice Chief of Staff for the Army, General Richard Cody, underscored that the lack of a supplemental spending bill has a direct impact on readiness. General Cody also outlined the ramifications for the Army if the additional funding is not provided soon. The text of a letter to the Speaker follows: Dear Madam Speaker: The time has come for the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Fiscal Year 2008 supplemental spending bill to pay for operations associated with the Global War on Terrorism. At an Armed Services Committee hearing today, the Vice Chief of Staff for the U.S. Army detailed the impact that our inaction could have on the readiness of our ground forces if we do not act quickly. In his testimony, General Richard Cody noted the following: “The Army runs out of pay for Active Duty and National Guard Soldiers in June 2008; “The Army runs out of O&M [operation and maintenance funding] for the Active component in early July and for the Guard in late June; “Two Stryker BCTs [brigade combat teams] may not receive hull protection kits before they deploy; “Armored Security Vehicles could face a break in production; “Army National Guard will not receive 10 CH-47 F model helicopters; “Converting and existing BCTs will not receive the Bridge to Future Networks communications systems; and “The Army will be unable to upgrade and construct facilities for returning Wounded Warriors at Forts Drum, Campbell, Stewart, Carson, Hood, Riley and Polk.” Republicans agree with Army officers when they state that the “Army is not broken,” but we recognize that our forces are stressed. Additionally, we understand that immediate action on the Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental would ease the stress on our ground forces. Madame Speaker, all Members of Congress are concerned about the readiness of our military forces, and none want to put our brave military personnel in danger. Understanding that continued inaction directly impacts our military’s ability to improve readiness, we urge you to work with the House Appropriations Committee to move the Fiscal Year 2008 Supplemental to the House floor for a vote without further delay. Sincerely, Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-CA) Rep. Jim Saxton (R-NJ) Rep. John McHugh (R-NY) Rep. Roscoe Bartlett (R-MD) Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA) Rep. Mac Thornberry (R-TX) Rep. Walter Jones (R-NC) Rep. Robin Hayes (R-NC) Rep. Todd Akin (R-MO) Rep. J. Randy Forbes (R-VA) Rep. Jeff Miller (R-FL) Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC) Rep. Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ) Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) Rep. John Kline (R-MN) Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) Rep. Mike Rogers (R-AL) Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ) Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) Rep. Geoff Davis (R-KY) Rep. Rob Wittman (R-VA) Cc: The Honorable John Boehner; Republican Leader The Honorable Ike Skelton; Chairman, House Armed Services Committee The Honorable David Obey; Chairman, House Appropriations Committee The Honorable Jerry Lewis; Ranking Member, House Appropriations Committee
04.09.2008	“General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker made it clear that the progress that we have made in Iraq is significant, but if we do not proceed with care, that progress could be reversed. The Iraqi governments met 12 of the 18 set benchmarks, and have made significant progress on five others." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) listened in the House Armed Services Committee as General David Petraeus and Ambassador to Iraq Ryan Crocker delivered their testimony on the status of the progress in Iraq. Conaway made this statement following today’s hearing: “General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker made it clear that the progress that we have made in Iraq is significant, but if we do not proceed with care, that progress could be reversed. The Iraqi government met 12 of the 18 set benchmarks, and have made significant progress on five others. It is predicted that one year from now, the U.S. will be giving Iraq half of the support that we currently are. It is important for us to allow the successes in Iraq to grow into a functional democracy and give our help when needed. We must acknowledge these successes, focus on future stability and democracy, and pass a clean troop funding bill and FISA legislation in the House to keep our troops and Americans at home safe. “While Democrats in Washington continue their unconstructive criticism, consistently pushing for withdrawal from Iraq, our men and women in uniform continue to achieve great successes and diligently press forward with the mission in Iraq. The fight for a democratic Iraq and against the violent Islamic jihadists is one that we must continue to pursue. Freedom does not come cheap, and is especially hard on our soldiers and their families; but the vast improvements that have been made in Iraq have been due to the dedication and work of our soldiers. The gift of freedom that our men and women fight for every day to give the Iraqi people is priceless and does not go unnoticed.”
04.03.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that Midland College has received a grant from the Department of Education in the amount of $563,825 for the Hispanic Serving Institution Program. “I am more than pleased that Midland College received this grant,” said Conaway. “With the growing Hispanic population in Midland, it is important that everyone have access to academic opportunities. By strengthening the Hispanic Serving Institution Program, Midland College will have the ability to reach out to the region’s disadvantaged population.” Midland College submitted this grant proposal to fund the “Puente ACCESO” project, whose goal is to “bridge the educational gap through redesign of developmental education and focused outreach services.” This comprehensive activity was created to create academic opportunities for the Midland area’s disadvantaged Hispanic population. Through curriculum redesign, development of accelerated coursework, and academic support services, Midland College will be better equipped to reach out to the Hispanic community. For more information on the Department of Education grant program, please visit their website at http://www.ed.gov/fund/landing.jhtml?src=rt.
03.31.2008	“The DOD does not need to waste time studying fuel emissions and be held-up by this confusing and irrational section,” said Conaway. “We must work together to find real solutions to our energy crisis and continue down the road to energy independence. This section does nothing to advance that.” share: f t Today, Congressmen Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Jeb Hensarling (TX-5) introduced a bill (H.R. 5656) to repeal a section of the Energy bill that raises concerns over economic and national security. Specifically, section 526 states in its entirety: “No Federal agency shall enter into a contract for procurement of an alternative or synthetic fuel, including a fuel produced from nonconventional petroleum sources, for any mobility-related use, other than for research or testing, unless the contract specifies that the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions associated with the production and combustion of the fuel supplied under the contract must, on an ongoing basis, be less than or equal to such emissions from the equivalent conventional fuel produced from conventional petroleum sources.” Section 526 was included in the Energy bill mainly to repress the Defense Department from buying coal-based jet fuels, which environmentalists insist produce more greenhouse gases than traditional petroleum. However, this theory is not proven and does not account for our current ongoing improvements in carbon-capture technologies. “The DOD does not need to waste time studying fuel emissions and be held-up by this confusing and irrational section,” said Conaway. “We must work together to find real solutions to our energy crisis and continue down the road to energy independence. This section does nothing to advance that.” Canada is the largest United States oil supplier. By including this section in the energy bill, we will slow the importation of fuel from Canada, one of our country’s most reliable allies and economic partners. “Section 526 is simply not good public policy. It is not in our best interest to limit the ability of the Pentagon access to fuels from our allies, while forcing increased importation from unfriendly, unstable countries. This section puts our country at risk and has the potential to have dangerous implications. It is essential that this section be repealed.”
03.13.2008	“Last night the House voted to yet again to extend the 2002 Farm Bill, this time until mid-April. Although it was a necessary action to avoid reverting to the original 1949 farm law, it should in no way be interpreted as an acceptable substitute to a new omnibus Farm Bill. It is my hope that all Members, Republican and Democratic, as well as the Administration come to a consensus on the remaining issues of contention so that a Farm Bill, that does not ask one stakeholder of the bill to disproportionately carry the off-set load, can be advanced into law." share: f t WASHINGTON, DC - Yesterday, both chambers of Congress voted to once again extend the 2002 Farm Bill. The short-term extension (H.R. 5578) would extend some programs of the 2002 Farm Bill through April 18th. The current extension of the 2002 Farm Bill expires this Saturday, March 15th. After House passage of the short-term extension, Congressman Conway made the following comments: “Last night the House voted to yet again to extend the 2002 Farm Bill, this time until mid-April. Although it was a necessary action to avoid reverting to the original 1949 farm law, it should in no way be interpreted as an acceptable substitute to a new omnibus Farm Bill. It is my hope that all Members, Republican and Democratic, as well as the Administration come to a consensus on the remaining issues of contention so that a Farm Bill, that does not ask one stakeholder of the bill to disproportionately carry the off-set load, can be advanced into law. The American public does not benefit from political bickering and finger-pointing. It is in the interest of our country to craft and pass a Farm Bill that serves the interests of the American producer, consumer and taxpayer.” Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
03.12.2008	WASHINGTON, DC – Last week, Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) launched a new-and-improved official House of Representatives website (http://conaway.house.gov), making it easier for constituents to stay connected and informed about what is happening in Washington, D.C. and throughout Texas’ 11th Congressional district. “It is important to me that West Texans are able to find as much information as possible with the click of a mouse,” said Conaway. “I am confident that my new website will act as an information headquarters through the use of multimedia, interactive maps, and regularly updated podcasts and blog entries.” Conaway has pushed the technology limit with the new website through the use of videos on the issues, weekly podcasts, maps, blogging and more. Constituents will also be able to find information about internships, federal grants, nominations to military academies, and ways to help our troops. Conaway went on to say, “Whether you are looking to visit Washington, D.C., seek help from a federal agency, have a flag flown over the U.S. Capitol, or if you simply want to browse the news and issue pages to stay informed about what Congress is doing in Washington, I guarantee that constituents will be able to find everything they need on our new interactive site. I encourage everyone to take advantage of everything my online office has to offer.” Conaway urges everyone to sign up for the Conaway Chronicle, his weekly newsletter, and check out his blog at www.conawayblog.com to get up-to-date information on the upcoming issues in Washington. Click here to be directed to the latest press releases and news from Rep. Conaway. Click here to view all the services and ways our office can help you with issues. Click here to be directed to an in-depth view of the important issues being discussed in Washington.
03.06.2008	Yesterday, the House Budget Committee met to mark-up the federal budget for the Fiscal Year 2009. Among other things, the proposed budget will implement the largest tax increase in history, raising taxes by $683 billion over five years. share: f t Yesterday, the House Budget Committee met to mark-up the federal budget for the Fiscal Year 2009. Among other things, the proposed budget will implement the largest tax increase in history, raising taxes by $683 billion over five years. Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following the mark-up: “Once again, my Democrat colleagues have decided to dip deep down into hard-working Americans pockets and not only employ the largest tax increase in history, but also add $276 billion to the President’s budget over the next five years. Sound tax policy must be comprised of consistency and stability. When Americans are uncertain about the future of our economy and taxpayers are wary of making long-term spending decisions, this type of action has an adverse effect on our economy. But the majority continues to foster these doubts by guaranteeing years of increased taxes for hard-working Americans. “I was able to offer a few amendments with my colleagues yesterday during the markup. The ‘Savings in Appropriations’ amendment, which I have offered in the past, amends the rules of the House to allow Members of Congress to offer budget-reducing amendments to general appropriations bills and, in turn, will reduce the deficit or increase the surplus. I also offered an amendment to reject an increase in the Estate Tax, better known as the ‘Death Tax’. I firmly believe that taxing death is not good public policy, as too many small businesses and family farms in District 11 have gone out of business due to the forceful hand of the federal government. Americans are taxed in every aspect of their lives and it is past time to draw the line. Some of my Republican colleagues and I also offered a sense of Congress on war funding, stating that it is the job of Congress to provide consistent funding for our troops in a timely manner instead of playing political games in Washington. Unfortunately, Democrats held with their liberal leaders and defeated all three amendments. “At a time when economic growth and job creation is slowing, and Americans are concerned about high gasoline prices and lower home values, reducing the deficit and controlling spending should be a top priority. Unfortunately, my Democrat colleagues are intent on doing the opposite. Congress needs to get serious about curing Washington’s spending disease and I will continue to work on reforming how the federal government spends taxpayer money.” *Click here to watch Rep. Conaway offer his amendment on the Death Tax. *Click here to watch Rep. Conaway offer his ‘Savings in Appropriations’ amendment.
02.27.2008	The latest version of the Democrats’ Energy bill is one that is set to place an enormous tax burden on the backs of our country’s oil and natural gas producers and, ultimately, on American consumers. Each dollar that the oil industry earns is reinvested back into the ground to explore and produce increased domestic oil and natural gas. share: f t Today, the House voted to pass yet another version of the Democrat-led “No Energy” bill. The bill passed by a vote of 236 to 182. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following the vote: “The latest version of the Democrats’ Energy bill is one that is set to place an enormous tax burden on the backs of our country’s oil and natural gas producers and, ultimately, on American consumers. Each dollar that the oil industry earns is reinvested back into the ground to explore and produce increased domestic oil and natural gas. Each dollar that we tax, or take away from, oil and gas producers is directly hurting our economy and placing a roadblock on the path to energy independence for America. The cost of these new taxes will ultimately be passed on to the American consumer by way of higher pump prices. “Energy is the lifeblood of our economy, and today gas prices are higher than ever. I urge the Majority to stop wasting time with legislation that will not get passed the President’s desk, and start working in a bipartisan manner to find real solutions to our energy crisis.” Click here to watch Rep. Conaway speak on the major problems with the Energy Tax legislation on the House Floor.
02.21.2008	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway announced that the Midland Fire Department will receive a grant of $254,600 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, bequeathed by the United States Department of Homeland Security. The grant is to be used for operations and safety equipment. “Congress recognizes the importance that first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. The safety of our firefighters and the improvement of firefighting equipment are integral to the protection and preparedness of the community. Firefighter grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/.
02.13.2008	Last night, House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson and Ranking Member Bob Goodlatte unveiled to House Agriculture Committee Members an illustrative outline for ten-year farm bill that was developed through bipartisan House negotiations with the Administration. share: f t Last night, House Agriculture Committee Chairman Collin Peterson and Ranking Member Bob Goodlatte unveiled to House Agriculture Committee Members an illustrative outline for ten-year farm bill that was developed through bipartisan House negotiations with the Administration. Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: “I would like to commend both Chairman Peterson and Ranking Member Goodlatte on the bipartisan effort that they put forward in working with the United States Department of Agriculture on a proposal that all involved parties can ultimately support. While I am still reviewing the proposal that was outlined to Members of the Committee last night, the discussions seem to be a positive step in the right direction. I am encouraged by the hard work of Chairman Peterson, Ranking Member Goodlatte and the Administration in their efforts to put political and partisan differences aside while working in order to advance the interests of American agriculture and rural communities across the country. I anxiously await the next step of this process, which will involve working with our colleagues in the Senate to build on the negotiations and draft final legislation.” According to the documents circulated in the meeting last night, the proposal that was put forth provides for no tax increases with the goal being to develop a Farm Bill that can pass both the House and Senate and ultimately be signed by the President before current program extensions expire on March 15, 2008. Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
02.08.2008	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Senate-passed version of the economic stimulus package. This version is slightly different than the House version that was passed last week. The version to be signed today by the President expands to include certain veteran’s disability payments and Social Security benefits, and explicitly denies credit to anyone who does not include a valid Social Security number on their tax return. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement in regards to the package: “While the economy in West Texas remains strong and the unemployment rate remains low, the economy of the nation as a whole is gradually slowing. To give the economy a temporary boost, the President has worked with Congress to construct a more than $150 billion economic stimulus package that will give folks money that is already theirs in the form of tax rebates. We must act carefully to ensure that we create short-term growth without causing unnecessary long-term damage, as a package such as this could be counterproductive if it is not focused in the right areas and isn’t properly timed and temporary. While I am pleased that my colleagues were able to work with the President in a bipartisan manner to form this plan, more than just a tax rebate is expected from the federal government to help boost our economy. We must make the current tax rates permanent and employ other forms of real tax reform, and I look forward to working in the budget committee to seriously consider real economic reform for the American people.” Rep. Conaway is a member of the House Budget Committee.
02.06.2008	Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) encouraged local taxpayers to take advantage of the Free File Alliance (FFA), a free online tax preparation and filing service, to ease the burden and stress of tax season. Along with fellow community leaders and the Computer and Communications Industry Association, Conaway hosted the event at UTPB to promote the tax assistance program for qualified taxpayers which include citizens who are low-income, in the military, and Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) eligible. “These efforts are instrumental in bridging the digital divide,” Conaway said. “It reaches out to those taxpayers who may have shied away from using the Internet in the past, and those taxpayers will find, with the help of companies like Intuit and the great work of community-based organizations here today, that online tax preparation is easy, fast, and secure.” The FFA is a joint venture between the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and electronic tax software companies, such as TurboTax, to assist millions of eligible American taxpayers in preparing and filing their annual tax returns online for free. The services of the FFA are available to at least 70 percent of American taxpayers. David Macklin, a representative of the Computer and Communications Industry Association (CCIA) who attended the event, commended Congressman Conaway and the community leaders for endorsing this helpful program. “We are thrilled to be publicizing this Alliance today because both Congressman Conaway and CCIA have strongly advocated putting technology’s tools into everyone’s hands and helping people in Odessa and elsewhere get the highest tax refunds to which they are entitled.” Intuit Financial Freedom Foundation, an organization which sponsors programs dedicated to public interest, is providing tax filing resources to supplement the Alliance. “We are proud to donate TurboTax Freedom Edition to working families, lower-income filers, and active-duty military, including National Guard and Reservists,” said Susan Mason of Intuit. “Having donated more than 15 million returns to qualified taxpayers since 1998, our donation of TurboTax is our largest philanthropic initiative. We are delighted to help spread the word with Congressman Conaway so that qualified taxpayers can get their income tax electronically prepared and e-filed safely, quickly and for free.” For more information on FFA services and eligibility, please visit their website at www.irs.gov or www.taxfreedom.com.
02.04.2008	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement regarding President’s Bush’s budget proposal: “I am encouraged by the President’s budget proposal as it balances the federal budget by 2012 by making current tax relief permanent and placing an emphasis on fiscal restraint. It is essential that we hold our government accountable for enacting a responsible, long-term economic growth plan. Due to our ever growing government and Democrat threats of tax increases, our once-vibrant economy is beginning to slow down. While I am pleased that Congress was able to work in a bipartisan manner with the President to create a temporary, immediate, and carefully targeted economic stimulus package, we must act carefully to ensure that we create short-term growth without causing long-term damage. The President’s budget addresses the urgent need to take steps toward reforming our entitlement programs to ensure that our children and grandchildren have a secure retirement. Failing to reform these programs will cause massive tax hikes for hard working Americans and puts Medicare and Social Security at risk of extinction. The budget also provides funding for our troops fighting in the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan by increasing ground combat capabilities, developing readiness for future threats, and improving the quality of life for our troops and their families. It is time for Congress to begin making hard decisions about spending. This budget proposes to either reduce or terminate 151 current government programs, saving over $18 billion. It is of vital importance that we gain control of the deficit and live within our means so that we do not place our debt today squarely on the shoulders of future generations. I look forward to examining this proposal over the next few weeks as the Budget Committee begins hearings on the issue. It is the job of Congress to spend responsibly and maintain lower taxes to put our economy on the right path for the future. It is my hope that the Majority will work in a bipartisan manner to craft a plan that will accomplish this goal.”
01.28.2008	Tonight, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway sat amongst his colleagues as President Bush gave his final State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. The President addressed the major issues facing our country and discussed a domestic agenda for America, including energy, health care, spending reform, education and immigration. He also spoke of his international agenda, including: the War on Terror, Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and trade with Colombia, Panama and South Korea. Congressman Conaway made the following statement at the conclusion of the address: "Tonight, President Bush reiterated to the American people that although our country continues to face serious challenges, we as Americans have much to be thankful for. As always, the number one priority continues to be keeping our homeland secure. U.S., Iraqi and Afghan troops are providing noteworthy successes in the Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan to achieve significant results, meaning future deployment will be decreased. The President outlined specific benchmarks that have been reached since last year's speech, and discussed what else needs to be done to ensure victory, including the deployment of 3,200 Marines to the forces in Afghanistan to ensure the progress that has been made toward a stable Afghan democracy is not reversed. Although the immediate future of our economy is unsure, President Bush urged Congress to implement an economic growth package including making the current tax rates permanent. If Congress delays, letting the tax cuts expire, approximately 116 million Americans will see an increase of $1800 in tax dollars this year. He also pushed the issue of entitlement reform on the joint session, stating the importance of saving important programs such as Social Security and Medicare. Failing to reform these programs will cause massive tax hikes for hard working Americans and puts Medicare and Social Security at risk of extinction. It is imperative that these important programs be preserved for our children and grandchildren. He also discussed the significance of domestic energy exploration and creating renewable nuclear and clean coal initiatives, as well as the creation of a new $2 billion international clean technology fund. With regard to all of the issues that the President outlined in tonight's speech, I anticipate working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to accomplish our mutual goals and keep our nation secure."
01.23.2008	Today, Congressman K. Michael Conaway announced that the Hill Country Community Action Association, Inc. will receive a grant of $4.8 million on behalf of the Head Start Projects Program administered by the Department of Health and Human Services. This grant will fund Head Start part-day and full-day childcare centers in the Hill Country area. “I am pleased that the Hill Country Community Action Association received this grant for its Head Start Program,” Conaway said. “The health and happiness of our children is essential to the future of our nation. Head Start programs provide invaluable developmental and educational services to disadvantaged children and families and help promote school readiness and future academic success. The funding for these programs benefits the families involved and the community as a whole and contributes to a brighter future for our nation’s children.” The Hill Country Community Action Association, Inc. is committed to assisting low-income families and communities through developmental projects like Head Start daycare centers. It is a private, non-profit corporation that serves a multi-county region in the Texas Hill Country. The federal Head Start Program is administered by the Department of Health and Human Services and promotes the educational readiness of children through various health and social services. For more information about Head Start Programs, please visit their website at http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/hsb/index.html. For more information regarding the Hill County Community Action Association, Inc., please visit their website at http://www.hccaa.com/.
12.19.2007	Last night, U.S. Representative Howard Berman (CA-28) introduced a bill (H.R. 4789) supporting a “performance fee” on local radio broadcasters. This fee will force local broadcasters to pay record labels and performers for the music that is now aired on the public airwaves free-of-charge. Last month, U.S. Representatives Mike Conaway (TX-11) and Gene Green (TX-29) declared support of free local radio by sponsoring the Local Radio Freedom Act. This bipartisan bill recognizes the significance of local radio in the community and opposes any new performance fees, taxes, royalties or other charges relating to the public performance of sound recordings on a local radio station for broadcasting sound recordings. “Time and time again the recording industry has attempted to place this costly and destructive fee on our local radio stations. Fortunately, Congress has repeatedly refused to implement this fee that would disrupt the mutually beneficial relationship between local radio stations and recording industries,” Conaway said. “Local radio provides an invaluable service in the community by relaying important weather information, national emergency information and important news that will affect the community. This “performance fee” will place an unnecessary and devastating burden on the small local broadcasters and will inevitably hurt our communities.” For years the “free music for free promotion” system has given both the music industry and the local broadcasters an economical and cooperative way to promote themselves and serve the community. The Local Radio Freedom Act pledges to protect these small, local broadcasters and preserve the successful and efficient relationship between the recording industry and local radio. “Local radio is the best promotional tool performance artists have,” said Congressman Green. “During this year's Country Music Awards, we heard numerous country artists thank country radio for getting their music out to the public. If listeners like what they hear on the radio, they will go buy that track on CD or pay to download it online. Congress should not upset this balance by imposing additional fees on free, over-the-air broadcaster radio stations that not only promote musical artists, but keep our communities connected with other costly programming such as local news, weather and emergency information.”
12.18.2007	In July, Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced an amendment to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill to aid the border patrol in interdicting illegal immigrants trying to enter the U.S. illegally. The amendment would provide the border patrol with $5 million dollars to eradicate the tactical cover that runs along the banks of the Rio Grande River on the Texas-Mexico border. This amendment was included in the omnibus appropriations bill that passed through the U.S. House of Representatives last night. “In talking with border patrol agents on our southern border, they expressed a concern regarding the problems they had experienced with people using the tall weeds along the river as cover while attempting to sneak across the border,” said Conaway. “By creating a pilot program for the Border Patrol to use to eradicate invasive species of weeds, our agents will be safer and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV’s) and cameras will be more effective in stemming the tide of illegal immigrants crossing our border.” The Texas-Mexico border along the Rio Grande River is inundated with free-growing, large weeds such as Russian Olive, Salt Cedar and Carrizo Cane. The weeds can grow to be 10-15 feet in height and provide excellent cover for anyone attempting to enter the U.S. illegally. Conaway went on to say, “This amendment also brings up the issue of conservation. The weeds along the river use up to 200 gallons of water every day. If the weeds were removed, the Rio Grande would be stronger and harder to cross. I am confident that this pilot program will serve as a key tool as our Border Patrol agents work to interdict every person who attempts to come into this country illegally. I am pleased that my colleagues recognize the importance of this amendment”
12.18.2007	Today, the FutureGen Alliance announced that the Mattoon, Illinois location has been selected as the future site for the first clean-burning FutureGen coal gasification electric power plant. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following the announcement: “I am disappointed that Odessa/Penwell was not chosen as the site for the FutureGen initiative. Since the day I took office in January of 2005, the FutureGen project has been at the top of my list of priorities. It has been a long decision process with extensive research and numerous site visits, and I applaud the hard work of the Odessa community who made a great presentation and truly represented the best that West Texas had to offer the FutureGen initiative. From day-one there was not been a doubt in my mind that Odessa was the right choice for this project. The Permian Basin is a leader in energy production and research of both traditional and alternative forms of energy. From the wide open terrain to the pioneering spirit of the community, Odessa possesses every aspect needed to make energy projects such as FutureGen a success. The entire West Texas community put together a tremendous effort in looking toward the future with its efforts to bring FutureGen to Odessa. Although I am extremely disappointed that the Odessa/Penwell site was not chosen, I firmly believe that initiatives such as FutureGen are a giant step in the future of American energy. Having passed all of the Environmental Impact Studies, the Penwell site is an ideal location for other energy development opportunities. As our country moves to find additional ways to produce power, and as the Department of Energy continues to work to develop energy alternatives, I am confident that West Texas will continue to be a key player as we pave the way to improve our energy security.”
12.12.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway announced that the Colorado City Fire Department will receive a grant of $169,100 from the Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program, bequeathed by the United States Department of Homeland Security. The grant is to be used for vehicular acquisition. “Congress recognizes the importance that first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Fire trucks and the improvement of firefighting equipment are integral to the protection and preparedness of the community. Firefighter grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/.
12.12.2007	Today, the Department of Energy (DOE) announced that they have advised the FutureGen alliance not to release a decision on the site location of the FutureGen initiative, citing that they have not had ample time to consider the public comments that were made following the final Environmental Impact Study (EIS) released last month. At this point, the FutureGen site announcement is delayed. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following announcement after receiving the attached letter from the DOE: “While I was anxious to receive the announcement of the FutureGen site location and am disappointed with the delay, I will continue to work with both the FutureGen Alliance and the DOE in the effort to bring FutureGen to West Texas. I continue to believe that the Odessa/Penwell site exceeds all the priorities and requirements necessary to make FutureGen a success, and will anxiously await the announcement of a future decision date.”
12.06.2007	Today, the House voted to pass yet another version of the Democrat-led “No Energy” bill. The bill passed by a vote of 235 to 181. “Once again, the Democrat leadership has crafted a harmful piece of legislation behind closed doors,” said Conaway. “After a second attempt to breathe new life into the energy bill, the revised legislation still implements higher costs on consumers and businesses, and requires large mandates in unproven science. This ‘comprehensive’ solution does nothing to increase our real energy production. Production of oil and natural gas, nuclear, coal-to-liquid, and other forms of energy are completely left out of what Democrats call a ‘comprehensive’ solution.” The imposed ethanol mandate would also result in high consumer costs and is not yet been proven to be an efficient and effective source of renewable fuel. The Renewable Electricity Standard (RES) would require states to produce fifteen percent of their electricity from renewable sources. RES places an unfair burden on states that lack the natural resources to meet the renewable electricity standard. Consumers who live in these states will be forced to pay considerably higher electricity rates with no additional renewable electricity in return. Conaway went on to say, “Energy is the lifeblood of our economy. We cannot forget that with new technologies come new costs. Before we can implement changes to our lifestyles, we must know what kind of effect these new changes will have on consumers and small businesses. If it were cheaper to produce electricity today by using alternative sources of energy, such as solar and wind, we would be using them - that is the reality of our market economy. Until cost-benefit facts can be determined based on sound science and valid research, we must not act in haste and carelessly implement legislation that is harmful to our economy and will not help the energy problems at hand. I implore the Majority to stop wasting time with veto-bait legislation drafted in secret, and start working in a bipartisan manner to find real solutions to our energy crisis. The American people deserve better than this.”
11.16.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that Mills County has been awarded a Disaster Relief Fund grant in the amount of $350,000 from the Community Development Block Grant Program administered by the United States Department of Housing and Rural Affairs. The grant will provide much-needed assistance to the area after the severe flooding in June 2007. “I am more than pleased that Mills County received this generous grant,” Conaway commented. “Central Texas was devastated by summer storms that caused overwhelming damages to homes, roadways, and public buildings. The efforts to rebuild and return to normalcy could not have been attempted without the assistance of both the state and federal governments. I applaud the Community Development Block Grant Program on both the state and federal levels for identifying the needs of Mills Country and the people of Central Texas for their resilience and determination to rebuild such a beautiful part of Texas.” Mills County will receive $350,000 for road improvements and the enhancement of flood and drainage systems. Approximately 51 sites, including roadways and water crossings, were damaged in the flooding and each will be repaired and reconstructed. The grant funds shall also provide a 25% match for FEMA funding. For more information on the Community Development Block Grant program, please visit its website at www.orca.state.tx.us or http://www.hud.gov/offices/cpd/communitydevelopment/programs/.
11.15.2007	Yesterday, an independent analysis conducted by CRA, International was released, finding that the Democrat-proposed energy legislation would have devastating effects on the economy, with the potential to destroy five million American jobs and cause a $1 trillion decrease in U.S. economic output. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following the announcement: “As we head into the winter months, the last thing American taxpayers want to worry about is a skyrocketing energy bill. But to think that their job might also be at risk is something that cannot be tolerated. From the looks of the CRA study that was released today, it appears that both are a real and present danger if the Democrat energy bills are passed. “I believe that the only way we can attain energy security is to encourage new sources of energy and expand on traditional sources. All that my Democratic colleagues seem to do is gripe and complain about the rising prices without offering a viable and meaningful solution. This is an issue that affects every single person in our country and there is no doubt that the energy problem at hand is real, but Democrats continue to avoid answers, our economy will decline. The proposed legislation would hamper the energy available to the U.S., which would lead to higher energy costs. Higher energy costs lead to reduced consumption, leading to unemployment and lower investment in the economy and additional resources. We can all hope and pray for a mild winter, but that does not figure good policy.” *The CRA analysis examined the following current provisions in the proposed Democrat-led energy legislation: a mandatory oil savings program, a renewable fuels standard (RFS), oil industry tax increases, a “price gouging” provision, a renewable portfolio standard (RPS) for the electric power sector, more stringent CAFÉ standards, and various proposed access restrictions on domestic production of oil and natural gas.
11.15.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) joined two of his West Texas colleagues, Congressman Mac Thornberry (TX-13) and Congressman Randy Neugebauer (TX-19), to introduce legislation extending the 2002 Farm Bill for an additional year. Portions of the 2002 Farm Bill began to expire on September 30, 2007, leaving agriculture producers without any guidelines to plan for next year’s crop. Congressmen Conaway, Thornberry and Neugebauer support a one-year extension in order to allow sufficient time for the Senate to pass a Farm Bill and for the House and Senate to work out differences between their bills. Following a telephone press conference, Congressmen Conaway, Thornberry and Neugebauer issued the following statements: Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11): “It has become increasing clear that the Senate will be unable to pass a Farm Bill within the proper amount of time required to give America’s producers ample notification to prepare for future business plans. I have long stated that an investment in agriculture is wise Federal policy. With that said, I am proud to put my name on legislation that does just that - provides the proper tools, resources and practices that have a proven track record of working not only for the American farmer and rancher but for the American taxpayer and consumer. Should this legislation move forward it should be noted that this is a simple one- year extension and our work in Congress is far from complete. I look forward to working, hopefully in a bipartisan manner, on the good work that I was proud to initially support that came from the House Committee on Agriculture in June. As we move forward with the Farm Bill debate, it is essential that we craft responsible farm policy that is in the best interest of the American consumer, producer, and taxpayer.” Rep. Mac Thornberry (TX-13): “Inside the Washington Beltway there aren’t a whole lot of farmers and ranchers, but outside the Beltway there are a whole lot of farmers and ranchers waiting for Congress to act so they can plan and plant next year’s crop. This will give them the certainty necessary to do that.” Rep. Neugebauer (TX-19): “My preference, and the preference farmers and ranchers have conveyed to me, is that a five-year Farm Bill provides the most certainty for the planning decisions they have to make. However, the Senate is running out of time to complete a bill this year, much less work out differences with the House on our bill. This one-year extension provides the time Congress needs to work out a good five-year Farm Bill that can be signed into law as soon as it is completed. We shouldn’t leave farmers guessing what farm policy will be or how long it will take to get it done. We need a Farm Bill that protects and promotes American agriculture and assists the dedicated farmers who work diligently to bring their food and products to the American people. It is an honor to stand alongside my colleagues from West Texas to ensure America’s farmers and ranchers have an extension bill in place to plan for next year.” PLEASE NOTE – If you were unable to participate in the telephone press conference, an audio file is attached. For more information on the audio file, please contact Michael C. Frohlich at (202) 225-4005 or Michael.Frohlich@mail.house.gov.
11.08.2007	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) announced today that the Midland Independent School District will receive a grant of $1.25 million on behalf of the Head Start Projects Program administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The grant will fund Midland’s Head Start Center-Based program for children. “I am more than pleased that the Midland Independent School District received this grant for its Head Start Program,” said Conaway. “The health and happiness of our children is essential to the future of our nation. Head Start programs provide invaluable developmental and educational services to disadvantaged children and families and help promote school readiness and future academic success. The funding for these programs benefits the families involved and the community as a whole and contributes to a brighter future for our nation’s children.” The Head Start Center-Based program concentrates the development of enrolled children on group experiences and parental involvement. Children are provided with an individualized-educational program, a comprehensive health-care program, and an opportunity to improve their emotional and social development. Parents are involved in the planning and structuring of the activities as well as the classroom operations. For more information about Head Start Programs, please visit their website at http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/hsb/.
11.08.2007	Today, Congressman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Cross Timbers Health Clinics, Inc. in De Leon, Texas, was awarded a grant of $1.6 million from the Health Center Cluster Program administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. “The Cross Timbers Health Clinic, Inc. is a valuable provider of healthcare for the medically underserved areas of Eastland, Comanche, and Erath counties,” Conaway said. “I commend the efforts of the Department of Health and Human Services to identify the needs of these rural healthcare centers and assisting in keeping them open and serving the citizens of District 11. All Americans deserve affordable and accessible healthcare whether they reside in rural or urban areas, and I applaud both the Cross Timbers Health Clinic, Inc. and the DHHS for their attention to the medical needs of these counties.” The Cross Timers Health Clinic, Inc. has been providing medical services to the De Leon area since 1967. Its services are available to everyone in the community and works with private insurers, Medicare, Medicaid, and even those without coverage to guarantee equal access to its patients. For more information regarding the Health Resources and Services Administration Grant program within the Department of Health and Human Services, please visit their website at http://www.hrsa.gov/.
11.08.2007	Today, the Department of Energy, along with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), announced that the final Environmental Impact Study (EIS) for the FutureGen initiative has been issued. The study found all four of the proposed host sites to be acceptable. On Friday, November 16, the announcement of the EIS will be placed in the Federal Register – this action will start the 30-day public comment period. Following this announcement from the Department of Energy, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement: “I am pleased with the findings of the final Environmental Impact Study, and continue to wholeheartedly believe that the Odessa-Penwell site is the most desirable site for the FutureGen initiative. The Permian Basin has long been a leader in energy production and research of both traditional and alternative forms of energy. The entire West Texas community has put together a tremendous effort in looking toward the future with its efforts to bring FutureGen to West Texas. From now until the time of the final site announcement, I expect no negative comments of the Odessa-Penwell site, and will continue to look ahead with optimism to bring FutureGen to West Texas.” The final FutureGen site decision by the Department of Energy is expected to be made the week of December 17, 2007.
11.08.2007	Congressman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) announced today that the Central Texas Opportunities, Inc. in Coleman, Texas, will receive a grant of $1.29 million on behalf of the Head Start Projects Program administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The grant will fund Coleman’s Head Start Center-Based program for children. “I am more than pleased that Central Texas Opportunities, Inc. received this grant for its Head Start Program,” said Conaway. “The health and happiness of our children is essential to the future of our nation. Head Start programs provide invaluable developmental and educational services to disadvantaged children and families and help promote school readiness and future academic success. The funding for these programs benefits the families involved and the community as a whole and contributes to a brighter future for our nation’s children.” The Head Start Center-Based program concentrates the development of enrolled children on group experiences and parental involvement. Children are provided with an individualized-educational program, a comprehensive health-care program, and an opportunity to improve their emotional and social development. Parents are involved in the planning and structuring of the activities as well as the classroom operations. For more information about Head Start Programs, please visit their website at http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/hsb/.
10.31.2007	Today, U.S. Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Gene Green (D-TX) introduced the bipartisan Local Radio Freedom Act. The Local Radio Freedom Act declares Congress’ support of free local radio and opposes any new performance fees, taxes, royalties or other charges relating to the public performance of sound recordings on a local radio station for broadcasting sound recordings. "Local radio broadcasters provide essential information to the local communities they serve,” said Rep. Conaway. “Communities rely on local radio stations to relay important weather information, national emergency information, and important news that will affect their community. The suggested performance taxes on local radio would devastate small local broadcasters in rural areas and ultimately hurt small businesses and consumers.” There have been rumblings in Congress recently about trying to add a “performance tax” on local radio broadcasters, making them pay for the music they play. Local radio broadcasters provide thousands of hours of essential information to their communities. By imposing a performance fee, thousands of radio stations will suffer economic hardship as will other small businesses and ultimately the American consumers who rely on the stations for local news, weather, etc. The resolution also states that radio promotes the recording industry’s product. “Radio provides free exposure and promotion for record labels’ acts; broadcasters shouldn’t have to pay labels for the privilege of supporting them. If the stations ‘pay to play,’ the cost will go up for everyone and free over-the-air radio could be hurt,” Rep. Green said. The bipartisan resolution was introduced with 51 original cosponsors.
10.25.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after House Ways & Means Committee Chairman Charlie Rangel (D-NY) introduced the details of a plan to enact at $1.3 trillion direct tax increase - the single largest income tax increase in history. “While the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) needs to be reformed, imposing this monstrosity of a tax hike is not the way to go about doing so. As a CPA, I understand the deep flaws of the AMT all too well. I also understand that enacting reckless tax-and-spend tactics such as this puts our economy at risk and threatens the competitive job market that we enjoy today. At a time when American families are dealing with high gas prices and cost-of-living increases, the last thing they need is for the heavy hand of Congress to clean out their pockets by imposing this tax increase.” The AMT was created in 1969 by Congress to target 155 high-income households that had been eligible for so many tax benefits that they owed little or no income tax under the tax code of the time. Today, the "tax-the-rich" policy is so out- of control that, if ignored, it will soon hit 25 million hard-working middle class American families. In 1999, the Republican-controlled Congress passed a full repeal of the AMT, which was vetoed by President Bill Clinton. Rep. Mike Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
10.25.2007	Today, debate on H.R. 3963, the Democrats’ second SCHIP bill, was considered under a closed rule, meaning no Republican input was allowed. The Republican Whip’s office reported that this is the 40th time that the Democrat majority has tried to pass legislation under a closed rule. Congressman Mike Conaway made this statement following the passage of the “revised” SCHIP bill: “Yet again, the House leadership has broken their promise of running an open and transparent Congress. Not only did the 293-page bill arrive to the floor this morning to be voted on this afternoon, but Democrat leadership refuses to allow Republican input or amendments to this important legislation. This so-called “new and improved” SCHIP legislation continues to allow states to increase coverage without ensuring that poor children have coverage first, continues to provide coverage for many adults through 2012, and, among many other reasons, actually costs more than the first Democrat SCHIP bill. Until the Democrats can work in a bipartisan manner to get a responsible bill on the House floor, the Washington political games will continue. We must insure the poor children first, and we must do it rationally.”
10.18.2007	Information provided by the Congressional Research Service 1.) H.R. 976 enables illegal aliens to fraudulently enroll on Medicaid and SCHIP. ·Section 211 of H.R. 976 severely weakens current law requiring states to document the identity and citizenship status of Medicaid applicants by allowing a verbal presentation of Social Security Number count as “proof” of U.S. citizenship. Since thousands of SSNs are given to non-citizens ever year and SSNs are “borrowed” electronically every day, this will prevent the federal government from being able to ensure that taxpayer-funded Medicaid and SCHIP services are only going to qualified individuals. This is also a major step away from the goals of securing our borders and enforcing our existing immigration laws. It is also important to note that this provision will provide even further incentive for the theft of SSNs since they would have more value under the Democrats’ proposed policy. As a result of the flaws in this policy, CBO said that Section 211 would lead to $3.7 billion in additional federal Medicaid spending over 10 years, and as a result, states would have to spend $2.8 billion. This leads to a combined cost to the American taxpayers of $6.5 billion. (See the attached CRS memo on why SSNs should not serve as “proof” of U.S. Citizenship.) ·In 2005, the Health and Human Services Inspector General reported that a state audit uncovered that Oregon had paid for Medicaid benefits for 25 individuals (out of a sample of 812) who were ineligible because they were not U.S. citizens. That is an error rate of about 3 percent. Under the Democrats’ SCHIP plan, 5.8 million persons will be newly enrolled in SCHIP and Medicaid. Based on the error rate uncovered in a state audit, the certification changes in the bill could lead to roughly 174,000 non-citizens who are not be eligible to enroll in these programs getting benefits. 2.) H.R. 976 creates the most regressive tax increase in American history. ·In order to pay for 5 years of SCHIP and increased spending in Medicaid, H.R. 976 will increase tobacco taxes by over $70 billion over the next 10 years. The nonpartisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) calls tobacco taxes “the most regressive of the federal taxes,” meaning that the vast majority of any increases will be on the backs of low-income American families. The tobacco tax scheme in H.R. 976 is also part of a fiscally irresponsible and deceptive budgeting gimmick that terminates SCHIP funding after five years but has to keep the tobacco tax hike in effect for 10 full years in order to make this proposal appear to be budget neutral on paper. This means that under the financing scheme in H.R. 976, the SCHIP program will be left without funding or a funding mechanism from FY2013 through FY2017. Unless the Democratic Leadership honestly intends to terminate the SCHIP program during this five-year period of time, they will have to institute another multi-billion-dollar tax increase by 2012 in order to avoid kicking millions of children off of their health insurance coverage. 3.) H.R. 976 taxes the poor to benefit the rich. The bill uses the funding gained from taxing the poor to pay for expanding SCHIP eligibility to higher-income families. ·In their official analysis of the H.R. 976, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projects that 1.2 million new enrollees will be added to SCHIP as a result of an “expansion of SCHIP and Medicaid eligibility to new populations.” This means that these children live in families whose incomes are too high in order to qualify for the SCHIP program today. H.R. 976 will also allow New York to receive full SCHIP reimbursements for families with incomes up 400% of the Federal Poverty Level ($82,600 for a family of four this year) and will New Jersey to receive their full SCHIP reimbursements for families with incomes up to 350% of the Federal Poverty Level ($72,275 for a family of four this year). 4.) H.R. 976 spends billions of dollars to substitute private health insurance coverage with government-run healthcare coverage. ·CBO projects that 50% of the 1.2 million new enrollees in the “expansion of SCHIP and Medicaid eligibility to new populations” category already have private health insurance coverage. This means that the taxpayers will simply be paying for the government to buy out the health insurance premiums of these children who already have quality private health insurance coverage instead of focusing on actually enrolling low-income, uninsured kids. 5.) H.R. 976 focuses on enrolling higher-income kids instead of low-income, uninsured kids. ·While CBO projects that H.R. 976 will enroll 1.2 million kids who are in families with incomes too high to qualify for SCHIP now, only 800,000 currently SCHIP eligible kids will be enrolled as a result of H.R. 976. This means that 50% more higher-income kids will be enrolled than currently SCHIP eligible kids. Shouldn’t SCHIP be focused on insuring low-income kids, not families who can already afford to purchase health insurance? 6.) H.R. 976 increases the number of adults on SCHIP, allowing even more resources to be taken away from low-income, uninsured kids. ·According to official CBO projections, there could actually be 500,000 more adults on SCHIP in 2012 than there are today. Currently, there were over 700,500 adults enrolled in SCHIP in FY2006, and CBO projects that up to 1,248,000 adults could be enrolled on SCHIP at some point during FY2012. Shouldn’t we be trying to actually reduce the number of adults on SCHIP? ·According to the Congressional Research Service, adults cost on average 60% more to cover than children, and since SCHIP uses fixed annual allotments, every dollar spent on an adult is a dollar that cannot be spent on a low-income, uninsured child. Although H.R. 976 does create a separate fund from which to fund parents in SCHIP, this policy does not take effect until 2010, and it takes away a significant part of the money allocated for SCHIP by the tobacco tax increases. ·While H.R. 976 does provide incentives for states to shift childless adults from SCHIP to Medicaid, this policy does not take effect until 2010 as well, meaning that over 200,000 childless adults will be allowed to continue to take away limited resources from low-income children during 2008 and 2009. ·Based on August 2007 estimates, states project they will spend $7.6 billion in federal funds on SCHIP in FY 2008. Of this amount, approximately $858 million (11.3%) will be spent on adults. Projected spending on children (including pregnant women) is $6.7 billion. If you add the necessary state-level spending, this $858 million in federal spending will become about $1.5 billion in total spending on adults in 2008 alone.
10.18.2007	Today, the House of Representatives voted to sustain the Presidential veto of the State Children’s Health Insurance Plan (SCHIP). Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement regarding the sustained veto: “I am pleased that the President’s veto was sustained by the House. Congress has wasted valuable time caught up in political games just to prove that this legislation is fatally flawed and must be reformed promptly. SCHIP was created as a fiscally-responsible, bipartisan program to address the critical issue of children from low income families that are without health insurance, and that is how it should remain. “I strongly support the SCHIP program and think that it is vitally important to extend and reauthorize this legislation, but only on a rational basis. The vetoed proposal would extend children’ health benefits to adults, illegal immigrants and wealthier families. It is imperative that we cover poor children first. It is my hope that Republicans and Democrats can come together immediately to reauthorize this important program by offering a low-cost plan that protects our children.”
10.12.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) has made grants and resources available to improve the safety of America's schools. “Our schools are a place where we should feel comfortable sending our children every day,” said Conaway. “Unfortunately, due to an increased level of school violence across the country, proper safety precautions and procedures are important for our schools to implement so that our children will know the proper measures to take in an event of an emergency. The resources made available to schools through the COPS office will aid in finding a proper plan of action in the event of an emergency.” The COPS office can provide at no charge a School Safety CD that contains over 30 practical guidebooks that address issues such as developing a successful school safety program and emergency response plan; assessing and reducing gang activity in your community; effective responses to reducing bullying in schools; responding to bomb threats against schools; dealing with disorderly youth who congregate in public places; preventing school vandalism and break-ins; and gun violence among youth. COPS currently has available a collection of technical assistance resources intended to support law enforcement officers, school administrators, parents, and community leaders as they work to enhance school safety and address youth related crime and victimization. For more information, and to obtain a copy of the COPS School Safety CD, please visit the following website: http://www.cops.usdoj.gov/ric/ResourceDetail.aspx?RID=393.
10.10.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway made the following statement regarding the Medellin v. Texas case: “Jose Ernesto Medellin was found guilty by a Texas court of the brutal killings of two young girls in Houston in 1993 when he was 18 years old. He confessed and was convicted of the heinous gang raping and strangling of these two girls. A judge sentenced him to death in October 1994..." share: f t Today, Congressman Mike Conaway made the following statement regarding the Medellin v. Texas case: “Jose Ernesto Medellin was found guilty by a Texas court of the brutal killings of two young girls in Houston in 1993 when he was 18 years old. He confessed and was convicted of the heinous gang raping and strangling of these two girls. A judge sentenced him to death in October 1994. The decision that the State of Texas has made to execute Mr. Medellin is one based on solid facts and a well-informed courtroom. The President’s effort to halt the execution and interfere with state law is overstepping his Constitutional power. This is a states rights issue, and federal officials should allow Texans to administer justice as they see fit.” Jose Medellin was arrested a few days after the murders took place. He was told he had a right to remain silent and have a lawyer present, but the police did not tell him that he could request assistance from the Mexican consulate under the 1963 treaty. President Bush wants to enforce a decision by the International Court of Justice that found the convictions of Medellin, along with 50 other Mexican-born prisoners, violated their rights to legal help as outlined in the 1963 Vienna Convention.
10.05.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) denounced the decision of the Architect of the Capitol (AOC) to censor those who request the word “God” and other religious expressions inscribed on the certificate included with flags flown over the U.S. Capitol. “Having a flag flown over the Capitol in honor of someone or to commemorate an event is a wonderful and patriotic service available to constituents,” said Conaway. “It is appalling to me that the AOC would actually censor religious expression from these certificates.” The AOC cites his own rules for Flag Office Services, rule number eight which states: “…religious expressions are not permitted on flag certificates.” The AOC ruled that the use of the word ‘God’ constitutes a religious expression. Conaway went on to say, “The word ‘God’ is carved into the walls of both Chambers of Congress. Our nation and our government were built on the foundation of those words. If the Architect is going to remove ‘God’ from Capitol flag ceremonies and certificates, what is going to stop them from removing ‘God’ from the Capitol walls?” Yesterday, Rep. Conaway requested a flag to be flown “in honor of the citizens of the 11th District of Texas for their love of God, Country, and family”. The request was sent back, stating that the word ‘God’ cannot be used, and has not been used since 2001 when the Architect implemented the rule. Rep. Conaway has signed on to letters to the AOC and to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calling for the repeal of this policy.
10.03.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Coleman Fire Department was granted $41,729 from the 2007 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program Award administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant is to be used for safety and operations. “Congress recognizes the importance that first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Firefighter grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/.
09.25.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that two West Texas community colleges were awarded a Strengthening Institutions- Hispanic Serving Institutions Program grant of $698,817 from the Department of Education. Western Texas College and Texas State Technical College West Texas received this grant to enhance educational opportunities for low-income Hispanic students. It is a five-year cooperative arrangement development grant in which partner colleges intend to improve student access to and success in college programs for area students.“I am pleased to see that Western Texas College and Texas State Technical College West Texas received this grant,” Conaway said. “Many West Texans do not have access to higher education and this grant will allow hard-working, disadvantaged students to receive the skills they need to prepare for a brighter future.”The Hispanic Serving Institutions (HIS) Program of the Department of Education grant of $698,817 aims to expand various programs within each college such as general education, associate degree programming, and online student support services. The grant also plans to increase the transfer of Hispanic students from two-year to four-year institutions.For more information, please visit the HIS Program website at http://www.ed.gov/programs/idueshsi/index.html.
09.25.2007	Today, the House voted to pass H.R. 976, the Children's Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. After the vote, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement:“I strongly support the SCHIP program and believe that it should be reauthorized and extended, but only on a rational basis. The bill that passed the House tonight does not do that. With a promised Presidential veto that will be sustained by the House, we Republicans will have an opportunity, unlike with this bill, to have direct input into the reauthorization of this very important program. This bill is fatally flawed in that it uses a budget gimmick to avoid the House PAYGO rules. The gimmick is an unrealistic promise to cut the spending in the program by 80 percent in the year 2012. The funding source of increased tobacco taxes is unreliable in that an increase in taxes will, in all likelihood, reduce the number of smokers, which means less revenue over time. After the President vetoes this bill, it is my hope that Republicans will be able to have a vital role in the legislation that reauthorizes this important program.” If passed, the President has said he will veto this legislation. Click here for more detailed information on the SCHIP legislation.
09.18.2007	“We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.” -Preamble to the Constitution of the United States of America Last night, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced a bill on the House Floor dubbed the AMERICA Act, A Modest Effort to Read and Instill the Constitution Again. Below is the speech Rep. Conaway made on the House Floor urging his colleagues to support this legislation, or you may click here to watch the video of the floor speech. “On this day, 220 years ago, the 55 delegates to the Continental Congress convened in Philadelphia to hold their final meeting, of which 39 signed a document that would change the course of history. Our Founding Fathers created a monumental plan to govern a sprawling young country dedicated to the idea that citizens were sovereign and should be free from the tyranny of unchecked authority. “Constitution Day presents us with an opportunity to pause and reflect on what a magnificent job these 55 individuals did in crafting a compromise that has provided us with a unified and stable nation. In their wisdom, they sought to protect the rights and liberties of individuals by dividing power and authority between the states and the national government. The result is a system of shared roles designed to prevent any one element from gaining too much power. “Members of Congress have taken an oath to bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution and with that responsibility in mind it is vital for us to fully understand this sacred document. That is why today, on the 220th Anniversary of the signing of our Constitution, I am introducing the AMERICA Act – A Modest Effort to Read and Instill the Constitution Again. “The AMERICA Act simply states that all Members of Congress, Senators, and their respective staff read the Constitution annually. “It is my hope that this modest yearly effort will renew and deepen our appreciation for the brilliance of the Constitution and the divisions and constraints on power contained within it. The AMERICA Act is meant to be a reminder to lawmakers to stay within our country’s founding framework as we conduct our legislative business. To our detriment, we often take the path of political expedience and ignore the limits so clearly written into the Constitution. Today I call on all Members of Congress to join me and rededicate ourselves to our founding principles of limited, constrained governance as enshrined in our Constitution. By studying our founding document, we will continue the legacy of these great men and their groundbreaking ideas as well as develop the habits of citizenship that keep the Constitution alive and relevant for a new generation of Americans. I urge you all to join me and support the AMERICA Act.”
09.17.2007	Today, Rep. K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Comanche County Consolidated Hospital District received a grant of $34, 850 from the Community Facilities Grant Program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development funds. The grant is to be used to purchase an ambulance.“I commend the efforts of the USDA Rural Development program to assist the needs of the Comanche County Hospital District,” Conaway said. “Ambulances are a critical tool for hospitals and are essential to providing adequate emergency care to all citizens, both within the city limits and in the outer-lying rural areas.”Comanche County Emergency Medical Services covers a five county area that includes Comanche, Erath, Eastland, Brown, and Mills. Due to serving this expansive area, the Comanche County-based ambulances were experiencing maintenance problems and even broke down several times while transporting patients. This grant will provide a new ambulance for the area and will better serve the 19,000 people who depend on Comanche County Emergency Medical Services. For more information on the Community Facilities grant program, please visit their website at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rhs/cf/brief_cp_grant.htm, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-800-414-1226.
09.14.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after President Bush addressed the nation proclaiming his support for General Petraeus’ plan to bring the troops home safely and victoriously: “This week, Congress heard from General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker, the two most credible and reliable sources on our efforts in Iraq and the status of our troops on the ground. Their words outlined a strategy that will secure the good work that has been done in Iraq, capitalize on the progress we have made, continue in our mission in defeating the evil Islamic Jihadists who seek to do us harm, and bring our troops home victoriously. Last night, the President affirmed that the strategy that was laid out by General Petraeus will lead to success. It is now up to Congress to come together, leave partisanship and political leanings aside, and do what is right to ensure that we exploit the success our troops have earned. Our troops deserve nothing less.” Rep. Mike Conaway represents 36 counties in West and Central Texas.
09.13.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement marking the sixth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on our nation: “Today marks the Sixth Anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. On that fateful Tuesday morning, America awoke to scenes of unimaginable horror and the reality of an uncertain future in a forever changed world. We, as a country, lost our innocence and realized the ruthless brutality of those who wish to eradicate our freedoms and endanger our lives. Yet while the horror and sorrow tested our spirits and strength, the morning of September 11th also united a patriotic America with the zeal and dedication not seen since the days after the Pearl Harbor attack. “On this sixth anniversary of 9/11 we must remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the heroic first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice in order help others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives everyday for our freedom. Let us remember the patriotism and unity we felt on September 11th in the days ahead and continue to fight against Islamic jihadists and hate in memory of that dark and horrifying Tuesday morning that changed our lives forever.”
09.11.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement marking the sixth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on our nation:“Today marks the Sixth Anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. On that fateful Tuesday morning, America awoke to scenes of unimaginable horror and the reality of an uncertain future in a forever changed world. We, as a country, lost our innocence and realized the ruthless brutality of those who wish to eradicate our freedoms and endanger our lives. Yet while the horror and sorrow tested our spirits and strength, the morning of September 11th also united a patriotic America with the zeal and dedication not seen since the days after the Pearl Harbor attack.“On this sixth anniversary of 9/11 we must remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the heroic first responders who made the ultimate sacrifice in order help others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives everyday for our freedom. Let us remember the patriotism and unity we felt on September 11th in the days ahead and continue to fight against Islamic jihadists and hate in memory of that dark and horrifying Tuesday morning that changed our lives forever.”
09.10.2007	Today, General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker gave a six-hour plus report in a joint hearing to the House Armed Services Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee. This long-awaited hearing delivered a progress report on the success of the troop surge and gave an overall assessment of the situation in Iraq. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, made this statement following the hearing: “General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker have devoted their lives to this country. Their exemplary service in this fight makes them the most knowledgeable and credible on the situation on the ground in Iraq. To that end, General Petraeus’ report provides us with a straightforward evaluation of the security and political conditions in Iraq. He reported that it is his assessment that we can begin reducing our forces beginning the end of September and continuing until next summer. He made it clear that while we begin the reduction in forces, it is imperative that such reduction not be rapid or premature. It is of the utmost importance that we take more time to capitalize on recent successes. “General Petraeus and Ambassador Crocker both expressed concern that civilian progress must accelerate to take full advantage the military progress that has been made. The General’s recommendations will require continued hard work and sacrifice but should lead to the ultimate goal we all want of a stable and democratic Iraq. It is my hope that Members of Congress will value the words of a decorated military general, put aside their partisanship and give our efforts in Iraq, led by a our magnificent men and women in uniform, the opportunity to be successful.”
09.06.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway made the following statement regarding a pilot program which would open the border to 1,000 long-haul Mexican trucks: “It is the administration’s responsibility to prove to the American people that the Mexican trucking pilot program meets the safety, insurance, and environmental standards that are required at each state level. The questions that were raised during debate and following passage of H.R. 1773 should send the administration a message that the American people and Congress are determined to ensure the safety of our highways. I understand the concerns and controversies surrounding this program, and will be watching the pilot program carefully to guarantee those concerns are dealt with.”
09.05.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway invites area high school seniors interested in attending one of the United States’ military service academies to apply for nominations through his office. The application period for students who will enter college next year ends October 26, 2007. To be considered, applicants must be a United States citizen, be a resident of the llth Congressional District of Texas and be between the ages of 17 and 23 by July 1 of the year of admission. Selection is based on SAT and ACT test scores, class rank, grade point averages, extracurricular activities, leadership potential and motivation. Interested applicants should contact JoAnne Powell at (325) 659-4010. Applications are available through the Congressman’s San Angelo Regional Office located at 33 East Twohig, Suite 307, San Angelo, Texas, 76903.
08.20.2007	*FY08 AGRICULTURE APPROPRIATIONS FUNDING SUMMARY: A total of $300,000 to CSRESS, Special Research Grants Account, to the Animal Fiber Research Program. This funding would assist in the ongoing Wool Research Program. This program is a partnership between the Texas Agriculture Experiment Station in San Angelo, TX, New Mexico State University and Montana State University. This program helps enhance the quality and quantity of wool and mohair produced in this country. New applications are continually being developed for the wool and mohair industry and this information is distributed around the country. FY 08: $295,000 A total of $31.1 million to APHIS for a Federal cost-share of approximately 30% to coordinate and support boll weevil eradication programs underway on approximately 9 million acres in Mississippi, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico. As you know, the Boll Weevil Eradication Program has been a successful, nationally coordinated effort. Six million acres in 9 states have been declared “weevil free.” The FY08 request is $7.1 million below FY07 and continues the annual reduction since the FY01 request in keeping with a commitment to reduce Federal cost share funding as the program moves towards its 2011 completion target date. See below, the request was combined with Pink Bollworm request A total of $7.8 million to APHIS for a Federal cost-share of less than 20% to continue to administer and supervise operation of the Pink Bollworm Program. The over 80% provided by cotton producers through grower assessments are used for program operations, trapping and pheromone applications. The requested APHIS funds will be used as follows: $5 million to continue the containment program in California’s San Joaquin Valley (SJV) and for sterile moths in Trans Pecos/El Paso Valley of Far West Texas, New Mexico and Chihuahua State in Northern Mexico for the cooperative Pink Bollworm Eradication Program, $1 million in cost share for initial trapping and pheromone operations, and $0.2 million for APHIS regulatory activities in the Western Region. The remaining $1.6 million is for indirect and direct costs to APHIS. Combined with boll weevil FY 08: $38.6 Million A total of $3 million to CSREES, Special Research Grants Account, to continue the state of the art multidisciplinary International Cotton Center at Texas Tech University. The International Cotton Center conducts cotton research programs for cotton production systems and provides market and policy analysis for natural fibers (cotton, wool, and mohair) in an effort to increase profitability and maintain viability of all segments of the U.S. cotton industry in an increasingly competitive and volatile international market. FY 08: $2.475 Million A total of $3 million to CSREES, Special Research Grants Account, to provide partial funding for the Center for Food Industry Excellence at Texas Tech University. The Center for Food Industry Excellence is a federal and state supported program that conducts systematic development and evaluations of production, processing and preparation methods of food products to achieve a safer and more nutritious food supply. FY 08: $1.353 Million A total of $4.5 million to CSREES, to address an ongoing collaborative research effort between Texas A&M University and New Mexico State University. This funding will be to assist in the ongoing Efficient Irrigation (TX) Program. Recent drought conditions in the Rio Grande Basin highlight how important water resources are for the regions economy and environment. This two-state initiative is working to increase the efficiency of agricultural and urban landscape irrigation and encourage the development of efficient water markets in the basin. Two Funding Spots - $3.96 Million Total CSREES (Research) FY 08 - $1.658 Million CSREES (Extension) FY 08 - $2.302 Million *FY 2008 TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT APPROPRIATIONS FUNDING SUMMARY: Midland Public Safety Technological Upgrades, City of Midland, Texas: The City of Midland’s public safety force, including police and firefighters, are in need of updated technological infrastructure and equipment, including digital radios. These upgrades would help the Midland public safety agencies by increasing interoperability. fy '08: $250,000 Odessa Public Safety Technological Upgrades, City of Odessa, Texas: The City of Odessa’s public safety force, including police and fire, are in need of updated technological infrastructure and equipment, including digital radios. These upgrades would help the Odessa public safety agencies by increasing interoperability. FY '08: $125,000 FM 3503 Relocation Improvements: This busy industrial thoroughfare passes through the center of a major petrochemical complex adjacent to Interstate Highway 20 in Odessa. This complex is listed as a facility of interest by the Homeland Security office and this proposed project would relocate FM 3503 from the center of this complex. FY '08: $500,000 The Concho Valley Multi-modal Terminal and Administration Building includes: Phase 1) a 7,200 square terminal composed of 5,000 square feet of space for administrative and customer service support centers for the transit providers; and 1,200 square feet of joint development space; and Phase 2) a 15,000 square foot administrative office space that will accommodate the human and community services agencies of the Concho Valley Council of Governments. FY '08: 250,000 *LABOR, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES APPROPRIATIONS FUNDING SUMMARY: #1 Angelo State University (Texas State University System), San Angelo, Texas, to develop and implement a comprehensive mathematics program for K-12 students, undergraduates and teachers that addresses the critical needs in Texas and nationally of developing the mathematics abilities of all students FY '08: $200,000 #2 Midland College Advanced Technology Center, Midland, Texas, for the purchase of equipment and campus-wide network infrastructure upgrades FY'08: $150,000 FUNDED: $250,000; Concho Valley Multi-modal Terminal & Administration Building, San Angelo, TX Amount Requested - $2.0 million
08.16.2007	Today, Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Greenwood Fire Department was granted $46,341 from the 2007 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant is to be used for safety and operations.“Congress recognizes the importance that first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Firefighter grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov.
08.04.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement in opposition to the Democrat “energy” legislation (H.R. 2776 and H.R. 3221) that passed the House of Representatives on Saturday afternoon: “The 800 page so-called “energy” bill that the Democrats brought to the floor today takes our nation in the wrong direction on the road to energy independence. This legislation will have an adverse impact on our economy and our energy security by increasing taxes on traditional energy companies by more than $15 billion.” “I have repeatedly said that the only way we can attain energy security is to encourage new sources of energy AND expand on traditional sources. This legislation misses the mark. It does not offer a single pro-energy provision and will cause gas prices to rise and create an even greater energy shortage. It presses the heavy hand of the government on the American people by requiring a renewable fuels standard and focusing entirely on environmental solutions at the expense of traditional energy production.” “Smaller, Independent companies produce more than 90% of our nation’s energy, yet H.R. 3221 and H.R. 2776 will increase taxes on these companies; forcing them to limit their investment into additional production, cut jobs and ultimately harm our economy. We need sensible government policies, not more regulations that are detrimental to our economy and our way of life.” “This legislation is opposed by nearly every pro-business and pro-energy organization including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, National Taxpayers Union and the Independent Petroleum Association of America. I will continue to urge my colleagues to drop this harmful legislation before it is sent to the President and produce a real energy bill that takes the proper steps to ensure that America’s energy supply is as abundant and affordable as the market will allow.” Rep. Mike Conaway represents 36 counties in West and Central Texas and is Co-Chairman of the bipartisan Reliable Energy Caucus in the House of Representatives.
08.04.2007	This evening, the House of Representatives passed with overwhelming bipartisan support, legislation (S. 1927) that would amend the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) procedures to request and initiate an electronic surveillance order. Following passage Congressman Conaway (TX-11), who voted in support of the measure, made the following remarks: “This legislation gives our intelligence professionals the tools and authorities they need to continue conducting surveillance procedures in order to combat terrorism and keep Americans safe from those who wish to do us harm. Foreign intelligence gathering is of the utmost importance to our national security and the recognition of such is the vast bipartisan support in which this legislation received”. FISA was created in 1978 to establish a process for obtaining a court order to conduct foreign intelligence surveillance within the United States. Due to constant changes and advances in technology and various communications since its original enactment, FISA now frequently requires government officials to obtain a court order to gather information on suspected terrorists targets situated overseas. “This extension of FISA and its provisions are temporary and will expire in 180 days which means our work is not done. I look forward to working with all members of the House in an expedited manner to craft a more permanent and stable solution regarding this issue which is of great consequence and need regarding the security of our homeland”. The legislation, which has passed both chambers, the Senate and House of Representatives is now scheduled to go to the President for signature into law. Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Committee on Armed Services.
08.01.2007	Today, the House debated and voted to pass the Children’s Health and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP) by a mostly party-line vote of 225 to 204. The bill, a reauthorization of the 10-year-old State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), massively expands entitlement spending, eliminates health care choices for Medicare enrollees, crowds out private insurers, raises taxes, and leaves a $73-billion gap that invites further tax hikes. “The Democrat Majority is exploiting this popular children’s health insurance program,” said Conaway. “This so-called CHAMP Act takes a major step toward government-run, socialized health care. Not only does it cut Medicare for seniors by billions of dollars, but it actually eliminates income eligibility restrictions for free health care. Over 5,000 citizens in District 11, over 350,000 Texans, and 8.3 million seniors nationwide will be pushed off of Medicare Advantage plans in favor of other Democrat priorities.” This legislation cuts Medicare funding by about $200 billion, effectively eliminating the Medicare Advantage program. Seniors across the country have responded positively to the greater choices and more personalized health coverage offered by Medicare Advantage. It has been a particular help to populations in rural areas, where there have been few options for better health coverage in the past. This bill eliminates those options. In addition, the bill cuts $7.2 billion in Medicare home health care benefits for seniors, and $6.5 billion in Medicare benefits for nursing home care. These cuts are not needed to cover underprivileged children. “I strongly support the SCHIP program and covering low-income children, but there is simply no limit to the financial irresponsibility of this bill. The proposal offered by Republicans enrolls just as many low-income children as the Democratic bill, but in a fiscally responsible way by offering low-cost plans that protect both our children and our seniors. The new coverage requirements on the states mean that it will cost more money than ever to cover a child in SCHIP.”
08.01.2007	Today, Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Granite Shoals Fire Department was granted $594,317 from the 2006 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant is to be used for operations and safety.“Congress recognizes the importance that first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Firefighter grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov.
07.27.2007	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives began consideration of H.R. 2419, the Farm, Nutrition and Bioenergy Act of 2007. The bill passed by a vote of 231-191. Earlier in the week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) voiced support for the bipartisan Farm Bill that passed through the Agriculture Committee without any of the rumored tax increases or anti-business provisions that were injected into the bill. The day before the Farm Bill was to be taken up by the full House, Republicans on the House Agriculture Committee learned that a tax increase on companies with U.S. subsidiaries had been inserted into the bill without their knowledge or consideration. Conaway made the following remarks regarding the 2007 Farm Bill: “Today is a momentous day here in Congress. I have voted against the single most important piece of legislation that agriculture producers in District 11 find important. When I came to Congress, I was honored to sit on the Agriculture Committee and to have the opportunity to work on the 2007 Farm Bill. Never in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that the Democrats would so poison a bill that is of such importance to agriculture producers across the nation that I could not support it. For the past eighteen months, I have worked with my Democratic colleagues to craft a bipartisan bill that we could be proud of. Last week, the bill passed out of committee with hard work from both sides. We thought we left the committee with a great bipartisan bill; a bill that would have Democrats and Republicans for it and perhaps some against it, but nevertheless, a bipartisan bill. We were assured at every turn that there would not be a tax increase in the bill. I worked diligently as a member of the bipartisan whip team working to increase bipartisan support for the bill, until we were told that a $4 billion tax increase would be included, breaking the promises previously made. All of the good bipartisan work accomplished by the committee has been squandered by the Democratic leadership in a way that will strip bipartisan support from this bill. “I want to make it clear that I support the Farm Bill as it came out of committee. I do not, however, support the non-agriculture approved tax increase that has been disgracefully attached to this legislation. Over the last 48 hours, poison pills have been added to the Farm Bill. Last week at this time, I fully expected to be here supporting this bill, perhaps fighting off bipartisan opposition to this bill, but nonetheless supporting the bill. This bill is pro-producer and will help the hungry around the world, but it is anti-business and anti-manufacturing jobs. The tax increases included in this bill will jeopardize millions of manufacturing American jobs by raising taxes on companies that do business in the U.S. and could possibly abrogate treaties with other nations, leading to significant consequences for U.S. companies with operations in other countries. We sadly have gone from a bill that should have passed with broad bipartisan support to one that will not enjoy that support. It is sad that partisanship has trumped rural America and has inevitably destroyed bipartisan support for the Farm Bill.”
07.20.2007	Last night, the House Agriculture Committee completed the final mark-up for the 2007 Farm Bill. The bill was reported out of committee to the full house favorably by a bipartisan unanimous, voice vote. “This is a good bill that I am proud to support,” said Conaway. “I am looking forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this legislation through the House. It is of the utmost importance that rural lawmakers band together to express the importance of this legislation to our urban counterparts in order to move forward with sound policy that makes sense for American consumers, producers and taxpayers.” Conaway offered five amendments to the Farm Bill, four of which passed in committee. He offered an amendment to the Energy title stating that the market is an important instrument in determining which forms of renewable energy inputs and technology are the most effective and efficient. His amendment to the Commodity Title would prevent the Secretary of Agriculture from issuing payments less than $25. In 2005, payments of less than $25 totaled over $31 million. Another amendment of note is an amendment that was made to the miscellaneous title to include goats in the current Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) law. Conaway went on to say, “It is my hope that provisions such as the Davis-Bacon rule will be removed from this legislation before being voted on in the full House. Provisions barring state governments from acquiring outside companies to assist state agencies in nutrition benefit disbursements will cost us much needed support on the House floor. The Democratic leadership has said they will support this bill in its current form, and it is important to have them behind us as we take the Farm Bill to the House Floor for final passage.” The 2007 Farm Bill is expected to be on the House floor next week. Thus far, the Senate has failed to act on any farm policy legislation this year. The 2002 farm bill will expire on September 30, 2007.
07.20.2007	Today, the Farm Service Agency (FSA) announced three offices in District 11 will be closing. FSA offices in Sonora, Menard and Junction were voted to be closed today in Austin. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made this statement following today’s announcement: "I believe the FSA used poor judgment in making the final decision to close the Menard, Sonora and Junction Offices. In my opinion, these communities, Junction in particular, did an excellent job in laying out facts and figures stating their case to remain open. I strongly disagree with the decision FSA has made, and I will work to make sure this transition is as easy as possible while ensuring that services and benefits to producers in the area are not disrupted or diminished. “Just this week, I voted in favor of an amendment to the Farm Bill that places a one year moratorium on the Secretary of Agriculture from closing any county field office of the Farm Service Agency, the Rural Development Agency or the Natural Resources Conservation Service unless the office had one full-time employee or less for more than 6 months out of the last two years. This amendment passed in the House Agriculture Committee and still must pass through the full House and Senate and be signed by the President before the ban will become active. “The contributions these offices give to the counties are immense, and the personnel performance is critical to agriculture producers in the area, and I will continue to explore all avenues to keep these offices open.”
07.19.2007	Deep in the middle of the Farm Bill mark-up, members of the House Agriculture Committee continue to debate over one hundred amendments to the eleven titles of the Farm Bill. “The basic structure of the bill does not differ from the 2002 Farm Bill,” said Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX). “American producers like the existing plan, and we are working through the few changes that are up for dispute. We will continue today marking up a title that brings the Davis-Bacon rules into play. Davis-Bacon is a union giveaway that requires any construction on ethanol plants that receive a federal loan guarantee to pay union wages. Although I believe that this is bad policy, the Democrats have insisted that the Davis-Bacon rule be included.” Payment limits have also been changed so that there is a hard ceiling on anyone getting either commodity or conservation payments. If the adjusted gross income average is more than $1 million a year over a three year period, you are excluded from participating in either one of these programs. If the adjusted gross income average is between $500,000 and $1 million, and if the farm-related income is at least 67 percent, then you will be able to participate in both commodity and conservation programs. If the adjusted gross income average is below $500, 000, there would be no change and there is eligibility for participation in both programs. “The title change on payment limits is representative of the reality we are facing in Washington on both sides of the aisle. We were able to work with the commodity groups and their leadership to come up with a compromise on this issue. Speaker Pelosi says that she will back this bill in its current form. It is important to have the leadership behind us as we take the Farm Bill to the House Floor for final passage.” Another amendment of note that was accepted late last night is an amendment that places a one year moratorium on closing any county field office of the Farm Service Agency, the Rural Development Agency or the Natural Resources Conservation Service. Final mark-up for the 2007 Farm Bill is expected to conclude today. The bill is expected to be voted on in the House of Representatives next week. Click here to listen to Congressman Conaway’s podcast on this issue.
07.17.2007	Today, the House Agriculture Committee began full committee mark-up of the 2007 Farm Bill. Substantial debate on the bill and amendments offered will begin tomorrow. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after today’s committee meeting: “As we begin consideration of the 2007 Farm Bill in full committee, I am optimistic that quality legislation will be debated and voted on in the House of Representatives before August 4th. When this bill is sent to the House floor, the debate is no longer Republicans vs. Democrats; it is the agriculture community against the rest of the world. I am eager to work with Chairman Peterson and my colleagues on the Agriculture Committee in a bipartisan manner to ensure that sound federal agriculture policy is enacted for the American farmer. ”
07.12.2007	Today, Democrats in the House of Representatives sent legislation (H.R. 2956) to the floor to begin an abrupt troop withdrawal starting within the next 120 days, and to be complete by April 1, 2008. The measure passed by a vote of 223 to 201. Following the vote, Congressman Conaway made this statement: “For the sixth time this year, my colleagues are attempting to take on the role of Commander in Chief and make the irrational decision to pull out of Iraq. By blatantly allowing political considerations to trump national security priorities, Democrats are doing a disservice to Congress, our troops in harm’s way, and the American people. The brave young men and women who are putting their lives on the line every day to defend our freedom deserve better than to be treated like political wages by their elected representatives. Retreating from Iraq now would have catastrophic consequences and I cannot and will never support legislation of this kind.” “The Resolution calls for the retreat to begin within 120 days of enactment. We are anxiously awaiting the report from General Petraeus, which is due within 60 days, and will be the basis for a sound evaluation of our next step. We should have the report in-hand before we decide what we will do next.”
07.11.2007	Today, House Republicans held a press conference to discuss the lack of energy in the Democrats’ Energy Plan. Former Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert (R-IL) and Chairman of the House Republican Conference Adam Putnam (R-FL) led the press conference and Rep. Barton (R-TX), John E. Peterson (R-PA), Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), and Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) also participated. Congressman Conaway made the following remarks during the press conference: “Some of the most credible estimates of future energy supplies for this country indicate that by 2025 we will still import millions of barrels of crude oil and refined products every day. We should begin today looking at policies that decrease our dependence on crude oil; policies that increase domestic production of crude oil; policies that improve the private investment of all energy resources; policies that will help stabilize price to consumers for gasoline and electricity. Any policy that we look at that does the opposite, reduces domestic production and reduces private investment. It increases prices to consumers, and must be challenged and opposed. It is our job to get those policies in place.”
07.11.2007	Today, the President and the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) announced that this year’s federal budget deficit will be nearly $40 billion lower than originally projected, meaning that the deficit is less than half of what it was three years ago. Following the announcement, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement: “Today’s announcement is confirmation that there is notable revenue growth due to our surging, healthy economy. The news is further evidence that Republican tax relief is working, leading to record federal receipts, new jobs, and low unemployment. Continued vigilance on behalf of taxpayers is required if we are going to achieve our goal of balancing the federal budget. We must continue to hold the line on spending, reject attempts to raise taxes, and work with the Democrats to address runaway entitlement spending.” Last week, the government announced that 123,000 jobs were created in June. Our economy has now added jobs for 46 straight months, and the unemployment rate remains low at 4.5 percent. The Administration announced this year’s federal deficit will narrow to $205 billion. The deficit now has been cut in half in just the last three years, and is at its lowest point in five years.
07.10.2007	Today, Congressman Conaway (TX-11) announced that Angelo State University in San Angelo was awarded a Health and Human Services grant in the amount of $25,325.00 for its Advanced Education Nursing Traineeship program. “I applaud both Angelo State University and the Department of Health and Human Services for their combined effort to strengthen nursing education,” Conaway said. “Nurses are a vital part of the healthcare system and our community in general. They provide necessary health services with a sense of compassion and respect which, in turn, personalizes and humanizes the healthcare experience. With this grant, Angelo State University can provide an avenue for nurses to further their education and benefit the community through improved healthcare.”For more information on the Department of Health and Human Services grant program, please visit their website at www.hhs.gov.
07.10.2007	Today, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced that the Frontera Healthcare Network (FHN) received a federal grant in the amount of $566,667.00 for a health care center. The Frontera Health Care Network provides primary and preventative health care services to the residents of Concho, Mason and Menard counties. This grant was awarded by HHS through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA).“I am pleased that the Frontera Healthcare Network received this grant,” Conaway said. “This organization has been extraordinary in their efforts to bring affordable quality healthcare to this region of Texas. Rural areas have suffered too long with inferior and expensive healthcare and with this grant, FHN will make a significant step in improving and expanding access to health care centers and services for the underserved.” The Frontera Healthcare Network was awarded a grant in the same amount in May of this year. For more information on the Department of Health and Human Services grant program, you may visit their website at http://www.grants.gov.
06.28.2007	Today, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi held a press conference laying out the strategy and timetable for advancing her caucus’s second No-Energy “energy” bill of 2007. This effort at energy reform attempts to create new energy policies under the auspices of lowering gas prices and saving the environment. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement: “The democrats plan raises taxes on the energy industry by more than $15 billion and does absolutely nothing to improve our long-term energy problems. If our goal is lower gas prices for the American people and less dependence on foreign sources of energy, the Pelosi plan is precisely the opposite of an effective policy. “The cost of oil is set by the global market. The price of a barrel of oil involves a complex system of current worldwide demand, the security situation in oil producing nations and the outlook for future supply and demand. Democrats should stop targeting oil and gas companies and work with them if they really want to end our energy crisis. “To solve our current energy crisis, we simply cannot afford to rely on unproven science. Alternative energy sources are billions of dollars and years of research away from reducing our dependence on crude oil. A real energy plan needs to have three parts: Invest in renewable energy sources, promote conservation, and increase domestic production of oil and natural gas. A bipartisan approach is necessary to craft a comprehensive energy plan that increases the supply of American-made energy, grows our economy, and lowers prices for consumers. This is not it.”
06.28.2007	This afternoon, the U.S. Senate rejected attempts to bring the immigration measure to a final vote, effectively killing the legislation in its current form. The 53-46 vote against the motion for cloture was 14 votes short of the 60 votes that were needed. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) pulled the bill from consideration after the vote. Following the vote, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement: “This bill in its current form was unacceptable, and I am pleased that our Senators recognized that a better bill was needed to address immigration reform in a comprehensive manner. While there is a sense of urgency to deal with immigration reform, we must still craft proper policies. We must enforce our current border security laws, work to effectively secure our border, and then create a productive non-amnesty temporary worker program. I want to thank all of my constituents who voiced their opinion regarding the flawed Senate immigration bill. This bill failed in part because of the concerns and perseverance of the American public. I also want to commend Texas Senators John Cornyn and Kay Bailey Hutchison for all of their hard work to reform this bill, and their achievements in killing it when their reforms were not adopted. I will continue to work in Congress to secure our borders and reform our immigration system.”
06.28.2007	Today, members of the Texas Congressional delegation sent the following letter to President Bush, urging an expedited approval of Governor Perry’s federal disaster declaration request. Dear Mr. President, We are writing to ask your expedited approval of Governor Rick Perry’s federal disaster declaration request, dated June 22, 2007, for the counties affected by the recent severe storms in Texas. The communities affected by the storms stand in serious need of federal assistance and we fully support the Governor’s request. Beginning on June 16, 2007, a series of heavy storms continue to strike Texas bringing heavy rain and widespread flooding. Texas already experienced major storms earlier in the year, and this most recent ongoing spate of storms is causing severe damage throughout the State. Based on the extent of the damage, federal assistance is in dire need to help these communities recover and also prepare for future storms. We respectfully urge you to approve the Governor’s full request as quickly as possible. We appreciate your consideration of this matter and look forward to working with you in any way to ensure those affected by this disaster get the assistance they need. Sincerely, The 32 Members of the Texas Congressional delegation
06.27.2007	Last night, the House voted to pass legislation to extend the duty-free preferences for four Andean nations (Columbia, Peru, Bolivia, and Ecuador) for eight months. This measure must pass through the Senate by June 30, 2007, when the Andean trade preferences (ATPA) are set to expire, in order to create certainty and avoid severe disruption in trade. In the final days of the 109th Congress, lawmakers extended duty-free benefits for Andean countries until June 30, 2007. “ATPA is one of the most effective tools that the United States has in fighting the war on drugs in Latin America,” said Conaway. “These preferences provide citizens of the beneficiary countries, particularly Columbia, with a stable and long term alternative to narcotics trafficking, illegal immigration and other criminal activities. Extension of the ATPA will continue to offer American consumers with easier access to items and allow duty-free entry of American manufactured products. It is imperative that the U.S. maintain support for this region and continue to back the excellent work that President Alvaro Uribe has done thus far.” Alvaro Uribe was re-elected as Colombia's president in May 2006. President Uribe has worked diligently to tackle Colombia's armed groups and drug-traffickers and is one of America’s staunchest allies in Latin America. Conaway went on to say, “While these preferences continue to move us in the right direction, they are still no substitute for the pending trade pacts with Colombia and Peru. These pacts, if agreed to, would provide far more extensive benefits to farmers, textile manufacturers and companies in the United States, as well as in Colombia and Peru. Goods that would be imported under the agreements generally do not compete directly with U.S. products. We must work diligently in the coming months to consider and pass these trade agreements.” Congress currently has pending pacts with Peru, Panama, and Columbia for consideration. A vote on the Peru agreement could be scheduled as early as July.
06.27.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Midland Community Development Office and the Midland Community Development Corporation were both awarded an Affordable Housing Program (AHP) grant from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas. These grants are made to community-based organizations, in conjunction with a local financial institution. “I am more than pleased that the Midland Community Development Office received this grant,” said Conaway. “Poor living conditions have a great impact on our children. Because of organizations such as these, families are not only provided with protection and safety, but also a sense of motivation and self-worth for the future. I applaud the Affordable Housing Program and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas for their efforts in bringing this grant to Midland.”The Midland Community Development Office will receive $20,000 towards addressing substandard housing conditions for low-income owner occupants of single family homes. Four projects will be completed with the grant, with funds made available through Western National Bank. The Midland Community Development Corp. will receive $50,000 towards down payment assistance to first time homebuyer families seeking new housing for families below 80% of area median income, with funds made available through American State Bank.“The Bank recently awarded $8 million in affordable housing grants, which are awarded twice a year to our member institutions, enabling them to make a positive impact in their local communities. We have now awarded over $169 million in affordable housing grants since the program began in 1990,” commented Bruce Hatton, Vice President, Director of Community Investment. For more information on the Affordable Housing Program grants, please visit their website at http://www.fhfb.gov.
06.27.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) announced that the Mason County Habitat for Humanity was awarded an Affordable Housing Program (AHP) grant in the amount of $5,000 from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas. These grants are made to community-based organizations, in conjunction with a local financial institution.“I am pleased that the Mason County Habitat for Humanity received this grant,” said Conaway. “Poor living conditions have a great impact on our children. Because of Habitat for Humanity, families are not only provided with protection and safety, but also a sense of motivation and self-worth for the future. I applaud the Affordable Housing Program and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas for their efforts in bringing this grant to the wonderful community of Mason.”The Mason County Habitat for Humanity will receive $5,000 towards the construction of a single family home that will be located within the city limits of Mason. The home will be sold to a qualified partner family at no profit, financed with an affordable no-interest loan. The grant funds have been made available through Mason National Bank.“The Bank recently awarded $8 million in affordable housing grants, which are awarded twice a year to our member institutions, enabling them to make a positive impact in their local communities. We have now awarded over $169 million in affordable housing grants since the program began in 1990,” commented Bruce Hatton, Vice President, and Director of Community Investment. For more information on the Affordable Housing Program grants, please visit their website at http://www.fhfb.gov.
06.27.2007	Today, Congressman Conaway issued the following letter to Governor Perry after learning that Burnet County received over 19 inches of rain in the past 24 hours, and is expected to receive as much as 9 additional inches tonight:Dear Governor Perry,I want to thank you for your prompt response to the recent major weather events in the State of Texas. I appreciate your issue of the recent Disaster Declaration, which was also done in a very timely manner. As you know, due to continuing rainfall the extent of the flooding and damage has increased in the short time since your original Disaster Declaration. I respectfully request that you consider including additional Central Texas counties in your original Disaster Declaration. Specifically I would request that you add Burnet County to the list. Burnet County has received upwards of 19 inches of rain in areas over the last 24 hours with as much 8 to 9 additional inches of rain expected tonight. I would also like to offer myself and staff to assist in whatever manner we may be able to contribute in expediting the federal assistance process. Thank you in advance for your consideration and efforts as we all move forward in this process. Respectfully,K. Michael ConawayMember of Congress (TX-11)
06.20.2007	Yesterday, Mike Johanns, Secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture, made discouraging comments regarding Farm Bill legislation agreed on in House subcommittees. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement regarding his comments: “After reviewing the comments made by Secretary Johanns yesterday it is increasingly evident to me that the Secretary and the USDA have little or no interest in actually working with the House Agriculture Committee. Comments such as the ones the Secretary directed at the Committee in such a public arena do nothing to assist in the process and, in my opinion, hamper credibility. The unflappable certitude with which the Secretary promotes his position demonstrates arrogance not previously present in his personal appearances before the Committee. His appeal to class warfare among interest groups within the agriculture industry is unhelpful at best and is clearly self-serving. “With regard to the comment made stating that there were ‘several kind and thoughtful comments made by members regarding the Administration’s proposal,’ I would note that there is a significant difference between politeness and approval. I want to remind the Secretary that the Committee did discuss the USDA’s proposal regarding Title I, and the subcommittee unanimously disapproved such an approach. “I also ask the Secretary to refer to research regarding the effects of the Administration’s proposal on net farm income, which has been conducted by very reputable institutions such as Texas Tech University. Texas Tech came to the conclusion that net farm income would be adversely affected by the proposal that the USDA has set forth. Other institutions have reached similar conclusions as well. “I will continue to listen to the producers and constituents of Texas District 11 as their elected representative and continue to voice the concerns and advocate their positions in the people’s House of Representatives.”
06.20.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), along with Reps. Dan Boren (D-OK), Gene Green (D-TX) and John Sullivan (R-OK) announced the launch of the Bipartisan Reliable Energy Caucus. “As the debate over climate change, energy prices and our energy security continues, it is clear that substantive legislative action will be taken,” said Conaway in a letter to his colleagues encouraging their participation. “However, any legislation considered should be rationally based on economics, sound science, and the realities of global energy markets.” The mission of the Reliable Energy Caucus is to advocate for U.S. energy independence by increasing domestic energy supply through environmentally responsible solutions. This includes the promotion of new technologies in fossil fuels, renewable and nuclear energy sources. The caucus will also educate members of Congress on all aspects of the energy industry. The Reliable Energy Caucus will work to study all the facts, place all the information on a level playing field, and circulate findings to all members of Congress in a bipartisan manner. The caucus will examine policies that will impact supply and demand sides of the energy industry and examine how our energy choices impact many important matters such as our relationships abroad and our environment here at home. Conaway went on to say, “With so much at stake, we must not attempt to move forward by simply appealing to people’s emotions and prejudices rather than their rationality. This type of approach will do nothing to advance the long term energy security of our nation. It is our sincere hope that these issues will be addressed in a bipartisan manner.” Congressman Mike Conaway grew up in the Oil & Gas business, working as a roughneck in college, and later serving as Chief Financial Officer for Bush Exploration in Midland.
06.19.2007	Today the Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities and Risk Management within the House Committee on Agriculture considered and forwarded to full Committee its recommendations for full committee consideration. The original draft, which was set forth by the Democrats, would cut the loan rate for cotton to fifty cents (down two cents per pound from 2002) and would cut the target price of cotton to seventy cents (down two cents from 2002). It would also end storage credits in 2012 and eliminate the three entity rule with regard to payment limitations. The original text did, however, leave direct payment acres at 85% after much speculation that the eligible base acres would be cut. “The original draft put forth by the democrats wrongly isolated cotton by attacking loan rates and target prices,” said Conaway. “I have previously stated that any attempt to isolate one commodity is unacceptable. The original comments were directed at the ongoing WTO negotiations but the same holds true for the United States Congress and the House Committee on Agriculture. Cotton should not be unfairly singled out and made a poster child for ‘reform’.” After initial consideration of the original recommendations, several substitutes were considered including a straight extension of the 2002 Farm Bill. The ’02 substitute was accepted by a unanimous vote of 18-0, becoming the underlying legislation in which to amend. Conaway went on to say, “As the Committee and Congress moves forward, we must remember that we need to construct farm policy that provides both stability and predictability while accurately reflecting the needs for all farmers in the State of Texas and across the nation. The 2002 Farm Bill has provided an effective and efficient safety net for agriculture over the last several years. We must allow our farmers to continue to provide the American consumer with the most abundant and affordable food and fiber supply in the world. I look forward to working with fellow committee members as we move forward with the Farm Bill debate to craft responsible policy that is in the best interest of the American consumer, producer, and taxpayer.” Upon acceptance of the substitute several amendments of consequence were also considered and voted on. Technical corrections and various industry supported “tweaks” were debated and accepted for cotton, rice, and sorghum each being accepted by voice vote. Also considered was an amendment that stated that it was the sense of Congress that no funds from the commodity title should be transferred to fund programs or increases in other titles of the Farm Bill. The amendment was accepted by a roll call vote of 18-0. “There are an estimated $13 billion dollars in “reserve funds” that have been placed into various subcommittee markups thus far. These reserve funds contain no actual monies and are nothing more than unfunded promises. In a time of budget constraints I would like to caution my Democratic colleagues against venturing down the path of attempting to simply offset those reserve funds by cutting into the commodity title or worse by placing the burden solely on the American taxpayer.” Chairman Peterson announced during today’s subcommittee hearing that Full Committee consideration of the Farm Bill will likely be delayed until after the 4th of July recess as scheduled Floor time for consideration of the legislation before the Full House has been postponed until the week of July 28th.
06.14.2007	In a recent interview, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) called Marine Gen. Peter Pace, the outgoing chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, "incompetent." Reid made similar disparaging remarks about Army Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. commander in Iraq. Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to Reid’s distasteful comments about U.S. military leaders in the Global War on Terror: “I am extremely disappointed that the leader of the United States Senate would again denigrate our military commanders in such a cavalier and casual manner. As members of the United States Congress, it is our duty and responsibility to make sure that our public comments support our troops and commanders. Unfounded criticisms are irresponsible and harmful to the morale of our men and women and are helpful to our enemies. The insensitivity that Senator Reid has displayed is abhorrent, and an apology is owed to General Pace, General Petraeus, our troops, and the American people.” On Wednesday, April 25, 2007, Senator Reid declared that the Iraq war is “lost”, causing Representative Duncan Hunter (R-CA), ranking member of the House Armed Services Committee, to call for Reid’s resignation. Click here to read the story.
06.12.2007	The U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Farm Service Agency (FSA) is evaluating practices to consolidate several of their offices through streamlining with new technology, causing many offices to merge. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement after receiving word that the Kimble County FSA office is on the list of potential offices to consolidate: “I was disappointed to learn that the Kimble County FSA office was on the list of possible consolidation offices. The Kimble County FSA office’s contributions to the county are immense, and the personnel performance is critical to agriculture producers in the area. I will continue to work with the State and National Farm Service Agencies to explore alternatives to the Kimble County consolidation. For more information, please visit www.fsa.usda.gov.
06.11.2007	House Republican Whip Roy Blunt (R-MO) announced today that Texas Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) has been selected to serve on a select working group of lawmakers focused on advancing trade and strengthening the American economy.“As the 110th Congress looks for ways to advance our interests abroad and grow our economy here at home, Mike will serve a vital role in shaping the trade policy debate as it moves forward,” said Blunt. “I’m grateful to him for accepting the responsibility of serving on this select group, and look forward to seeing what new ideas emerge from it.”The Whip’s trade working group will provide a congressional forum for members to discuss specific issues related to international trade. The objective of the group is to create, refine, promote, and advance the bi-lateral and multi-lateral trade agreements that will open new world markets for domestic manufacturers, and spur economic growth both here at home and around the world.“I am honored to have the responsibility to work with Mr. Blunt as we move forward on the important issue of trade,” said Conaway. “This group will exemplify the importance of trade liberalization and security cooperation, both of which further our national interests from economic and security standpoints.”The group will include lawmakers from various regions across the country, representing disparate views and interests on the impact of trade and the importance of crafting agreements that benefit all Americans.
06.08.2007	The U.S. Department of State has announced that citizens traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda who have applied for but not yet received passports can temporarily enter and depart from the United States by air with a government issued photo identification and Department of State official proof of application for a passport through September 30, 2007. The federal government is making this accommodation for air travel due to longer than expected processing times for passport applications in the face of record-breaking demand. Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) made the following statement: “I am pleased with the State Department’s decision to temporarily allow citizens to leave and enter the country with proper documents. While Congress has urged the strengthening of travel documents to prevent entry of terrorists across our borders, there must be adequate resources to fulfill the demand for passports before we can enforce the new requirements. Safety continues to be the number one priority for our country, and I will continue to work with the State Department to see that the increased demand for passports is dealt with efficiently.” This accommodation does not affect entry requirements to other countries. Americans traveling to a country that requires passports must still present those documents.
06.07.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass S.5, Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007, by a vote of 247 to 176. This legislation, which was introduced by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and passed in the Senate last night, will expand the number of embryonic stem cell lines that are eligible for federally funded research. Following the vote, Congressman Conaway made this statement: “There are still many ethical questions regarding stem cell research that are unanswered. The Democrats continue to ignore the major advances in ethical research; instead, they continue to push ahead with controversial measures and choose to pass veto bait over legislation that would responsibly advance stem cell research. I want to encourage the search for crucial all-purpose stem cells, from sources other than embryos, for life-saving research. It is vital that this research be carried out in a way that respects the sanctity of life. It is important that we not sacrifice life for science.” The President is expected to veto this legislation.
06.06.2007	Today, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Affairs, in conjunction with the Community Development Block Grant program, announced that the Pecan Valley Drive Bridge in Marble Falls will receive $350,000 for a bridge replacement project. The Pecan Valley Drive Bridge was severely damaged due to recent flooding in the hill country. “I want to commend the Department of Housing and Urban Affairs for dealing with this important issue in a timely manner,” said Conaway. “The Pecan Valley Drive Bridge is a transportation lifeline to and from Marble Falls for the citizens who reside in the Pecan Valley area. In light of the recent flooding in the hill country, this much needed grant will be a good start to re-building this important landmark for the citizens of Marble Falls.”The bridge serves as the primary source of transportation for the more than 250 households of Pecan Valley to travel to and from Marble Falls. During the flooding, high pressure flood waters got under the bridge, removing all of the support structure. Due to the extensive damages, the bridge will have to be completely removed and replaced.“The City of Marble Falls is extremely excited and pleased for this assistance, which will reopen a major part of our community to a normal lifestyle,” said George Russell, who serves as city manager for Marble Falls.For more information on the Department of Housing and Urban Affairs grant program, you may visit their website at http://www.hud.gov/grants/index.cfm.
06.05.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) spent the last part of the Memorial Day recess on a Congressional Delegation trip to Panama and Colombia, along with House Armed Services Committee chairman Ike Skelton (D-MO) and Congressman Phil Gingrey (R-GA). The purpose of the trip was to discuss trade opportunities and to visit International narcotics and law enforcement programs.The delegation spent the first part of the trip in Bogota, Colombia before heading to Panama. While in Bogota, they met with Colombian President, Alviro Uribe, along with the Colombian Secretary of Defense and the Ambassador of Colombia to the United States. In Panama, they were able to meet with President Martín Torrijos.“The efforts being made by the Colombian and Panamanian governments to combat narcoterrorism is extraordinary,” said Conaway. “I am particularly impressed with President Uribe with what appears to be a 180 degree turnaround in dealing with this issue in Columbia. The bilateral free trade agreements with Colombia and Panama, which are expected to be voted on later this year, will have a positive impact on the U.S. trade surplus with both countries. Not only will the agreement strengthen relations, but the financial benefits will be significant, as it will allow U.S. producers to sell products duty free.”While in Colombia, Conaway also discussed the hostage situation of the American civilians being held by FARC (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia) in the Colombian jungle. Thomas Howes, Marc Gonsalves and Keith Stansell were captured by the guerrilla's in 2003 after their plane crashed in FARC territory. FARC, which was originally financed by ransoms from extortion and kidnapping, is now mainly financed with money from narcotics.Conaway went on to say, “The U.S. has dedicated resources and personnel whose primary focus is rescuing the hostages. The Colombian government is assisting the search efforts at every level. Both governments are maintaining a constant vigil to bring these Americans home safely. We need to continue improving U.S. relations with both of these important nations. Having them as a partner in the Global War on Terror and the War on Drugs is vital to the security of the U.S.”
05.29.2007	Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urging her to work to resolve the current backlog of passport requests to ensure safe international travel for U.S. citizens. The letter, which was signed by 17 members of the Texas delegation, comes on the heels of new rules requiring a passport to travel by air in the Western Hemisphere, which has significantly increased the demand for passport issuance. “Our offices have received many frantic phone calls from constituents over the past few weeks that are experiencing delays in receiving their passports,” said Conaway. “They are being forced to stand in long lines at passport offices, make repeated phone calls, and in some cases, do not receive their passports in time to meet their travel deadlines.” When the Congressional offices have called the National Passport Information Center to inquire on the status of applications, or to expedite a passport request, they are being told to only call three days before the applicant needs the passport. Constituents waiting in line outside of the main passport offices in Houston are being turned away after they are told that they will need to schedule an appointment, some of which have submitted their passport request up to three months in advance.Conaway went on to say, "The current situation is unacceptable. As we await a response from the state department on this issue, I will continue to work with my constituents to the best of my ability to aid them with their passport applications.” Anyone who is in need of a passport is encouraged to apply well in advance by calling 1-877-487-2778 or by clicking here to apply online. Continue to call the passport office to receive updates and if you have not received your passport within three weeks of your travel departure date, please call Congressman Conaway’s district office at (866) 882-3811.
05.25.2007	Today, the Department of Health and Human Services announced that the Frontera Health Care Network (FHN) received a federal grant in the amount of $566,667 for a health care center. The Frontera Health Care Network provides primary and preventative health care services to the residents of Concho, Mason and Menard counties. This grant was awarded by HHS through the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA).“I am impressed with FHN’s extraordinary efforts to bring these much needed services to this area,” said Congressman Conaway. “The delivery of health care services in this area has historically been sparse; however, with the formation of FHN, community leaders aim to bring the best health care services to the residents of the area. This grant will be a great step in aiding them with their objective. I also want to applaud the HRSA for their commitment to improving and expanding access to health care centers and services for the underserved.”For more information on the Department of Health and Human Services grant program, you may visit their website at http://www.grants.gov.
05.25.2007	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the final version of the War Supplemental, which provides funding for our troops, as well as $3 billion in disaster funding for farmers and ranchers. The revised supplemental establishes benchmarks intended to condition the future U.S. strategy in Iraq based on the performance of the Iraqi government. It also requires the President to report to Congress by July 15th and September 15th on whether these benchmarks are being met. Congressman Conaway (R-TX) made this statement following the vote: “It is well past time to get our troops the funding they need to do their jobs, complete their missions, and return home to their loved ones. Our mission in Iraq continues to be important for America; however the Iraqi government must take the proper steps to protect and provide for its citizens. I am confident that this legislation will provide the proper funding and aid that our troops need to help in our mission in the war against the Islamic Jihads and aid the Iraqi government on their fight toward a stable democracy.” “While I am pleased that funding for agriculture disaster was passed, I am disappointed that this much-needed aid was used as a political bargaining chip. I have, and will, continue to offer my support for legislation to assist producers who are suffering from severe financial losses as a result of unpredictable, adverse weather conditions. Rural America needs our help; and in return they will continue to provide all Americans with the most abundant, safest and affordable food supply in the world. Overall, I am pleased that the emergency supplemental spending bill was able to come to a compromise and pass through the House. This bill provides our agriculture producers and our men and women in uniform the funds they need and have long been promised.” Among others, the emergency supplemental also provides funding for: FEMA and hurricane Katrina disaster relief, aid for veterans issues, and funding for the minimum wage increase. The federal minimum wage will increase from $5.15 to $7.25 per hour over the next two years, and includes $4.8 billion to help small business offset the increase. Click here to view a full breakdown of the legislation.
05.24.2007	Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a Democrat-led “price gouging” bill, which defines the act of price gouging as raising the price of gasoline to a level considered “unconscionably excessive,” without clearly defining what that means. The language included in the bill (H.R. 1252) can be interpreted in various ways, providing no guidance to suppliers but threatening jail sentences of up to 10 years in addition to huge fines for violation of this vague law. Following the passage of H.R. 1252, Congressman Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement: “The price of a barrel of oil is set by the global market; not by multinational energy companies. The rising cost of gasoline is taking a toll on hard-working Americans, and I agree that substantive action needs to be taken. However, as long as politicians continue to demagogue energy companies and oppose legislation that addresses the long-term problem of rising energy costs, we will continue to fail the American people. This legislation increases the size of the federal government and refuses to allow for domestic and deep sea energy exploration that would increase supply and reduce the cost, making the existing problems worse. I agree with my colleagues that action needs to be taken. However, we must begin enacting commonsense legislation that will increase supply and provide for research and development for alternative sources of energy. We must stop allowing the issue of rising energy costs to be clouded with misinformation and politically motivated emotion.”
05.24.2007	Today, the Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry approved a package of proposals for the 2007 farm bill to be taken up later this summer in full committee. This was the second subcommittee of six to consider language and forward recommendations to the full committee. “Overall I am very pleased with the proposals that the subcommittee approved,” said Conaway. “The language approved today by the subcommittee would grant dairy product buyers and sellers the right to enter into voluntary, long-term contracts for their milk supplies. I believe forward contracting provides a way for buyers and sellers to achieve stable, fair and reliable prices.” Among many other dairy provisions in the Chairman’s package, a permanent dairy forward pricing program was adopted. Click here to view the full text of the provisions. Conaway went on to say, “There are some issues of concern I have with the bill that I plan to work on before we take-up this legislation again in full committee. An anti-arbitration amendment was accepted that would, in my opinion, establish a dangerous anti-contract and anti-arbitration precedent. In many cases, arbitration is the least costly option versus a producer being forced to bear the cost of going to court.” Congressman Leonard Boswell (D-IA) proposed an amendment that would allow for the use of arbitration for livestock and poultry contracts to resolve a controversy only after the controversy arises and if both parties consent in writing to use arbitration. The amendment was accepted 8-6 on a strict party-line vote. Click here for more information on this amendment. Conaway continued, “I look forward to working with members in a bipartisan manner to reauthorize the Farm Bill so that America’s farmers and ranchers will have the tools needed to continue providing the American consumer with the world’s safest, most affordable and most abundant food and fiber supply.” The jurisdiction of the Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry includes: livestock, dairy, poultry, meat, seafood and seafood products, inspection, aquaculture, animal welfare, grazing, and marketing and the promotion of such commodities. Rep. Mike Conaway is a member of the House Agriculture Committee, and sits on the Subcommittee on Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry.
05.23.2007	Earlier this week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to unanimously pass H.R. 1425, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 4551 East 52nd Street in Odessa, Texas, as the `Staff Sergeant Marvin `Rex' Young Post Office Building'. On August 21, 1968, while in battle in Vietnam, Staff Sgt. Young sacrificed his life to save the lives of his friends and comrades. He was awarded the Medal of Honor for his bravery and sacrifice. “I met Rex when we both were attending Odessa Permian High School,” said Conaway. “Rex was a year ahead of me and graduated in 1965. His last day on earth was almost 39 years ago. Because he and I are close to the same age, I think often about all the experiences I have had that he willingly gave up that hot, fateful day half way around the world. All of these experiences that I know Rex must have looked forward to—the good and the bad—were sacrificed on freedom’s altar in his heroic acts.” Staff Sgt. Rex Young served as a squad leader with Company C. While conducting a reconnaissance mission, Company C was suddenly engaged by an estimated regimental-size force of the North Vietnamese Army. During the initial volley of fire, the point element of the 1st Platoon was pinned down, sustaining several casualties and the acting platoon leader was killed. Rex unhesitatingly assumed command of the platoon and immediately began to organize and deploy his men into a defensive position in order to repel the attacking force. As a human wave attack advanced on their platoon, Rex moved from position to position, encouraging and directing fire on the hostile insurgents while exposing himself to the hail of enemy bullets. After receiving orders to withdraw to a better defensive position, he remained behind to provide covering fire for the withdrawal. Observing that a small element of the point squad was unable to extract itself from its position, and completely disregarding his personal safety, Rex began moving toward their position, firing as he maneuvered. When halfway to their position he sustained a critical head injury, yet he continued his self-assigned mission of protecting the element while it withdrew. His heroic actions saved their lives, but at the cost of his own. In the heavy fighting, Company C suffered 17 men killed and 21 wounded in action. No one knows how many other men would have been lost had Rex not stepped-in to save his friends. Conaway went on to say, “It is with great pleasure and a deep sense of gratitude that I bring this bill to the floor to honor this great man. By doing so, his memory will live on—not just in the hearts of those of us who knew him—but also by everyone that uses or drives by that post office.”
05.22.2007	Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) attended a meeting with Senator Jon Kyl (R-AZ) to discuss the immigration deal that members of the Senate proposed last week. Following the meeting, Conaway made the following statement: “I have serious concerns regarding the Senate's recently proposed immigration and border security legislation. This legislation fails to address some serious reforms, and I was able to express my apprehensions to Senator Kyl, one of the lead Republican negotiators in the Senate on this issue. I have stayed consistent with my position on immigration reform: We must secure our borders AND create a non-amnesty temporary worker program to deal with those who come to this country to find a better life. I also expressed to Senator Kyle my belief that any guest worker legislation should address birthright citizenship and that social security should not be available for temporary workers. The current state of immigration in our country puts America in a vulnerable position; our security must remain the top priority when discussing comprehensive reform. I will continue to follow the legislation in the Senate and work with my colleagues in the House to come to an agreement on the best way forward on this important issue.” This legislation is currently under debate in the Senate.
05.17.2007	Congressman Conaway recently introduced H.R. 1770, the “Corrosion Prevention Act of 2007.” This bill will provide businesses a tax credit for costs associated with preventing or mitigating corroding metals.“The goal of this legislation is to reduce the threat of toxic pollution in our environment, along with the potential effects that this pollution can have on public health,” said Conaway. “Many industries use storage tanks to hold toxic materials such as MTBE, benzene, toluene, and heavy metals. Unless preventive methods are put in place, these storage tanks can corrode and leak toxins into underground drinking water supplies.”Engineers have long known of the tremendous costs of corrosion both in monetary terms and safety concerns. Engineers estimate corrosion costs our economy approximately $300 billion per year.Conaway went on to say, “Although all costs from corrosion cannot be completely eliminated, it has been estimated that 25% to 30% of these costs could be saved every year if proper corrosion management practices are employed. It is important that Congress, local governments, and private industries begin to address the damaging effect that corrosion has on America’s infrastructure, industrial competitiveness, job retention, and the environment.”
05.17.2007	Today, the Democratic lead House passed the fiscal year 2008 budget by a vote of 214 to 209. This budget blueprint calls for $2.9 trillion in federal spending in fiscal year 2008 and will raise taxes by at least $217 billion during the five year budget period. Unless averted by future legislation, this tax increase will be the second largest tax increase in American history. Also, if the Democrats’ spend too much money during the five year budget window, promises made to extend existing tax laws will be broken. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the passage: “Today’s passage of the Democrats’ budget increases the size of the federal government and imposes a colossal tax increase on hard-working American families. Their spending proposal is more than $20 billion above the President’s overall spending request, most of which is set to fund domestic programs and earmarks with no significant reform, offsets or emergency reserves. Their budget ‘agreement’ threatens our continued economic growth and job creation that we have enjoyed due to conservative tax policy. It promises massive new spending, and ignores entitlement reform for at least five years, and fails to protect the social security cash surplus. Runaway, careless spending of taxpayer money is unacceptable. The Democrats’ tax-and-spend philosophy is no way to balance the budget.” Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
05.14.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced that Western Texas College in Snyder has received a grant for their Upward Bound program in the amount of $250,000. “As a former member of the Midland Independent School District Board of Trustees, I understand the difficulties our educators face in providing the best quality education to our children,” said Conaway. “I am a strong supporter of grant programs like the Upward Bound program. They have a proven track record in District 11, and I will continue to work to see that they remain intact.” The Upward Bound program offers support to students in preparation for college entrance. The program provides opportunities for students to succeed in their pre-college performance and ultimately in their higher education pursuits. Upward Bound serves high school students from: · High school students from low-income families · High school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor's degree · Low-income, first-generation military veterans who are preparing to enter postsecondary education. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which students complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from institutions of postsecondary education. For more information on the Upward Bound program, you may visit http://www.ed.gov/programs/trioupbound/index.html.
05.11.2007	Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed another version of the War Supplemental by a vote of 255 to 171. This time around, the Democrats short-term funding bill provides $42.8 billion to fund our troops for two months. When the two months has expired, there will be another supplemental vote to fund the additional $52.8 billion. Following the vote, Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) made this statement: “This is no way to run a war. It is well past time to get our troops the funding they need to do their jobs, complete their missions, and return home to their loved ones. It is an embarrassment that the 435 ‘commanders-in-chief’ on Capitol Hill are rationing funding to our troops. This funding does not allow our commanders on the ground to carry out operations efficiently with the equipment that they need. Our country is at war; we must give our troops the financial support they need to accomplish what we set out to do. Failure is absolutely not an option, and I beg the Democrats’ to come up with a plan that will not set a slow-bleed deadline for troop funding.”
05.11.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced that Midland College has received a grant for their Upward Bound program in the amount of $250,000. “As a former member of the Midland Independent School District Board of Trustees, I understand the difficulties our educators face in providing the best quality education to our children,” said Conaway. “I am a strong supporter of grant programs like the Upward Bound program. They have a proven track record in District 11, and I will continue to work to see that they remain intact.” The Upward Bound program offers support to students in preparation for college entrance. The program provides opportunities for students to succeed in their pre-college performance and ultimately in their higher education pursuits. Upward Bound serves high school students from: · High school students from low-income families · High school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor's degree · Low-income, first-generation military veterans who are preparing to enter postsecondary education. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which students complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from institutions of postsecondary education. For more information on the Upward Bound program, you may visit http://www.ed.gov/programs/trioupbound/index.html.
05.11.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced that Odessa College has received a grant for their Upward Bound program in the amount of $287,880. “As a former member of the Midland Independent School District Board of Trustees, I understand the difficulties our educators face in providing the best quality education to our children,” said Conaway. “I am a strong supporter of grant programs like the Upward Bound program. They have a proven track record in District 11, and I will continue to work to see that they remain intact.”The Upward Bound program offers support to students in preparation for college entrance. The program provides opportunities for students to succeed in their pre-college performance and ultimately in their higher education pursuits. Upward Bound serves high school students from:· High school students from low-income families· High school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelor's degree· Low-income, first-generation military veterans who are preparing to enter postsecondary education. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which students complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from institutions of postsecondary education.For more information on the Upward Bound program, you may visit http://www.ed.gov/programs/trioupbound/index.html.
05.09.2007	Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) introduced the “Small Community Options for Regulatory Equity Act of 2007”. This legislation would amend the Safe Drinking Water Act to allow rural water systems (defined as serving 10,000 or fewer persons) to be exempt from costly national drinking water regulations, which are proven to have no impact on public heath and safety. “Rural communities are harmed by water standards that allegedly promote health at the expense of economic well being,” said Conaway. “This legislation provides for economic viability of small rural water systems and the areas and communities they serve.” Currently, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) exempts water systems which service fewer than 25 users. This legislation extends the opportunity of exemption to water systems which service fewer than 10,000 users and as a result provide hope for the viability of small rural water systems and the area and communities they serve. Conaway went on to say, “Within rural communities throughout the country, home water bills have increased faster than the rate of inflation. This trend is likely to continue. The current requirements reach far beyond what is reasonable and are literally bankrupting local governments. Although this legislation is not a complete solution to the underlying problem, it is a step in the right direction.”
05.03.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1592, the Local Law Enforcement Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2007. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) voted against this legislation, as it categorizes victims of violent crimes based on gender, sexual orientation, and race, among others, and imposes harsher penalties against their attackers based on those criteria. “It is a sad day when legislation such as this passes through the House of Representatives,” said Conaway. “We are sliding on a slippery slope when we try to dissect someone’s thought patterns before they committed a crime. All crimes are hateful and should be punished accordingly. To step in with a federal mandate and confer an enhanced penalty for certain crimes committed against one group, where the exact same crime committed against another group does not get the same penalty is unequal justice.” H.R. 1592 undermines the constitutional principle of equal justice under the law. Under this bill, justice is no longer equal, but turns on the race, sex, sexual orientation, disability or other protected status of the victim. It also eliminates the concept of equal justice by injecting race into our criminal justice system. Our criminal justice system is built on the idea of “equal justice for all.” Now, justice will depend on whether the victim is a member of a protected category. All victims should have equal worth in the eyes of the law, regardless of race, sex or status. This Hate Crimes Bill creates a new Federal “Thought Crime”, which requires law enforcement officials to probe, infer and deduce if a crime occurred “because of” bias towards a protected group. A criminal’s thoughts will be considered an element of the crime, which the government must prove beyond a reasonable doubt. Finally, this bill is an unconstitutional threat to religious freedom, as it opens the door to criminal investigation of religion, philosophy and politics. Conaway went on to say, “This Hate Crimes bill federalizes a state issue and expands the reach of the federal government into areas that it shouldn’t. The basis of this bill is flawed, and I urge in the Senate to vote against it.” President Bush has pledged to veto this bill.
05.02.2007	Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement today following the President’s veto of the Democrats’ War Supplemental Funding Bill: “I applaud the President for his prompt veto on the Democrats’ flawed version of the War Supplemental. Now, without wasting any more time, Congress can get back to the business of funding American troops without strings and without billions in pork spending attached. To delay the funding for our troops who need supplies and armor any longer is preposterous and wrong-headed.” “Last week, Members on both sides of the aisle were able to hear from General Petraeus about the path to success in Iraq. He gave us an honest assessment of what is happening on the ground, both the progress that has been made and the challenges that remain with al Qaeda and sectarian violence. Victory is the only option in this fight. Unfortunately, Democrats remain committed to failure.” “After three months of playing partisan politics, the only thing we have to show the President is nothing more than an ill-conceived proposal that sends a negative message to our brave troops on the frontlines. A plan for funding the Global War on Terror is time-sensitive and I urge my colleagues to finalize a proposal that meets our warriors’ needs and shows our enemies we are serious about creating a stable Iraq.”
05.01.2007	This past Saturday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition at the University of Texas at the Permian Basin (UTPB) in Odessa. Joey Heredia, an Andrews High School senior, was awarded first place with his photography piece, “Sacred Silence.”“The level of talent in this year’s Congressional Art Competition was very impressive,” said Conaway. “We had 25 entries from high schools across District 11 and the work that these students put forward was extraordinary. I would like to congratulate Joey on winning the art competition. His work will hang inside the Capitol for members of Congress and thousands of visitors to see.” Heredia’s artwork will be sent to Washington, DC to be hung in the Cannon Tunnel, a walkway inside the U.S. Capitol Building. This walkway is used by Members of Congress, congressional staff, and the general public as they enter the Capitol. The annual exhibit represents the combined efforts of Members of Congress, students, and teachers who encourage their students to enter the competition. The winning art entry from each District is displayed in the Capitol for one year. The panel of judges consisted of Pam Price and Chris Stanley, both of the UTPB art faculty. Heredia will receive complimentary framing for his entry, three complimentary airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the opening of the exhibit in Washington, DC, as well as two nights free lodging. Second place was awarded to Carl Spartz, a student at Permian High School for his piece entitled “214 to Seminole.” Third place went to Dustin Reno from Permian High School for his work entitled, “Insanity.” Fourth place went to Brice Evans of Midland Lee High School, and fifth place went to Ben Frederick of Llano High School. The 2nd and 3rd place winners will have their artwork hung in one of Congressman Conaway’s district offices for the next year.
04.25.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following comments following the release of specific Farm Bill legislative language by Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns: “Today, the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) released legislative language that would implement the credit title provisions of the Administration’s proposal for the 2007 Farm Bill. While I appreciate the Administration’s involvement in the continuing Farm Bill debate, it is well understood that Congress, not the Administration, will set spending levels and direct funding as it relates to the 2007 Farm Bill and other domestic farm policy. I look forward to working with Chairman Peterson, Ranking Member Goodlatte, and other members of the House Agriculture Committee in drafting language and directing funding as it relates to farm policy and the 2007 Farm Bill.” Secretary Johanns revealed “the initial batch” of the Administration’s legislative language for the 2007 Farm Bill today. This is the first time since 1985 that an administration has offered specific legislative language to Congress relative to proposals for a new omnibus farm bill. Secretary Johanns has stated that he expects the entire process to be completed relatively quickly, but that the USDA will continue to release language section by section as work is completed. By mid-May, all sections of the bill should be available. Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
04.24.2007	Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, issued the following statement after House and Senate Democratic leaders announced a compromise on the troop funding bill: “The so-called compromise that House and Senate Democrats have agreed on is nothing more than an ill-conceived proposal that sends a negative message to our brave troops on the frontlines. By requiring the withdrawal of U.S. combat troops to begin by October 1st at the latest, and setting a goal of next April 1st for a complete pullout, we are compromising the security of our troops and Americans here at home. President Bush said that he would veto this legislation. Failure has never been in the vocabulary of an American warrior, and we should not start using it now. A plan for funding the Global War on Terror is time-sensitive, as our troops on the ground need resources. I urge my colleagues to finalize a proposal that meets their needs.”
04.23.2007	Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement today following the release of the annual report of the Medicare and Social Security Trustees: “The trustees have once again made it clear that Social Security and Medicare are dying a slow death. Their report recognizes the strong need for Congress to address entitlement spending, which the Democrats completely ignored in their recent Budget Resolution. Runaway entitlement spending is irresponsible, will cause massive tax hikes for hard working Americans, and puts Medicare and Social Security at risk of extinction. It is imperative that these important programs be preserved for our children and grandchildren. It is past time for Democrats and Republicans in Congress to heed the advice of the trustees, come to the table and provide for real reform of Social Security and Medicare now.”
04.19.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) applauded the Supreme Court for their decision yesterday to uphold a national ban on partial birth abortion. In a 5-4 ruling, the Court agreed that the Partial Birth Abortion Act, which was passed by Congress and signed into law in 2003, does not violate a woman's constitutional rights. The Partial Birth Abortion Act protects the unborn by prohibiting the procedure in which an intact, living fetus is partially delivered and then killed. Conaway made the following statement following the ruling: “I am pleased with the Supreme Court's ruling in that they have reaffirmed the sanctity of life. Polls show that a large majority of American people, regardless of party affiliation, favor banning this brutal procedure. Partial birth abortion is a gruesome and abhorrent act of violence, and should have no place in a civilized society. Today is a great day in our continuing fight to protect the lives of the unborn."
03.29.2007	This week, the U.S. House of Representatives debated the Democrats’ budget for fiscal year 2008. Today, the bill passed by a straight party-line vote of 216 to 210, and is set to impose the largest tax increase in American history. According to the Democrats’ plan, taxes will increase by almost $400 billion dollars across the United States over five years, affecting every single American. It also puts off reform for entitlement programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, for at least five years, despite repeated warnings of fiscal instability as these programs are currently structured. “As House Democrats continue to expand the Federal government, reckless policies like this will lead to job losses and a struggling economy. This proposal holds no accountability and calls for huge spending increases with no significant reform or offsets. Their claim that this plan will balance the budget in just a few years can only be accomplished on the backs of hard working Americans. Even so, the balanced budget would be temporary as the budget does not take steps to reform entitlement programs. If we do not address entitlement reform, important programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security will not be able to exist in the future. Allowing the Republican tax cuts of ’01 and ’03 to expire is irresponsible, and will result in a massive tax increase for hard-working Americans. Higher taxes are not the answer to balancing the budget; reforming the way the government spends taxpayer money is.” “House Republicans offered a budget that would balance the budget without raising taxes that preserves and protects entitlement programs. It would extend the Republican tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 and freeze discretionary spending. These tax cuts have led to exceptional economic growth, which has in turn led to millions of new jobs and delivered the lowest national unemployment rate in a generation. Unlike the Democrat budget resolution, the Republican budget represents a vision of fiscal restraint and economic growth, and I am disappointed in today’s vote.” EVERY hard working Texan would be affected by Democratic Tax Hikes: The House Democrat Budget would increase taxes by $2,755 for the average Texas taxpayer. Because Texas does not levy an income tax, state operations are primarily financed through the collection of sales taxes. Current financial income tax law allows all taxpayers the option to deduct their State and local sales taxes in lieu of State and local income taxes. The Democrat Budget would let this provision expire, raising federal income tax on Texas, thereby subsidizing high income tax states and penalizing low sales tax states. EVERY Working American will be affected by Democratic Tax Hike: 83 million women would see their taxes rise, on average, by $2,068. 48 million married couples would incur average tax increases of $2,899. Taxes would increase, on average, by $2,181 for 42 million families with children. 12 million single women with children would see their taxes increase, on average, by $1,082. 17 million elderly individuals would incur average tax increases of $2,270. Taxes would rise, on average, by $3,960 for 26 million small business owners. Over 5 million taxpayers who previously owed no taxes would become subject to the individual income tax as a consequence of the sunset. Elderly Couples with $40,000 of annual income will see their taxes rise by 156% in 2011 – from $583 to $1,489. Family of Four With $60,000 in annual earnings will see their taxes rise from $3,030 to $4,893 in 2011 – that’s an increase of more than $1,850, or 61%. More than 5 million individuals and families who previously owed no taxes will become subject to the individual income tax in 2011 when the Democrats raise the 10% tax rate bracket to 15%, and reduce or eliminate other low-income tax benefits. 23 million married taxpayers will see their taxes increase, on average, by $466 in 2011. 31 million taxpayers with children will see their taxes increase, on average, by $859 in 2011.
03.28.2007	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) attended a General Farm Commodities Subcommittee hearing to listen to and review an array of proposals from various commodity organizations aimed at amending the program crop provisions of the 2002 Farm Bill. Congressman Conaway made the following statement following the hearing: “Today’s hearing provided excellent first-hand testimony on how our federal policies are affecting various sectors of the agriculture industry,” said Conaway, who is currently serving his second term as a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “It is imperative that we listen to the thoughts and concerns of industry experts and producers as Congress begins drafting the 2007 Farm Bill.” Today’s hearing hosted 10 witnesses spread across two panels and included representatives of the cotton, corn, rice, soybean, sunflower, wheat, barley, sorghum, and dry pea industries from all across the country. “One of the points I will continue to express to producers and industry leaders is that to craft successful policy, and move forward with a Farm Bill, all affected parties must approach Congress on a unified front. An increasingly urban makeup of Congress leaves little room for infighting amongst ourselves. I encourage all parties that are affected by farm policy to continue to work towards compromises to ensure that the best possible policy can be developed and implemented once the 2002 Farm Bill expires this September.” *According to an article published on September 7, 2006, CQ Today stated that a majority of members in the House during the 109th Congress did not represent rural constituencies. The breakdown given of the 435 Congressional Districts across the country was 61 rural districts, 90 urban districts, and 220 suburban districts.
03.23.2007	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass H.R. 1591, the Democrat Fiscal Year 2007 Emergency Supplemental Appropriation bill by a vote of 218 to 212. The supplemental puts in place an inflexible timeline with a date certain for withdrawal (March 2008), micromanages our commanders on the ground, and undermines and slows the efforts of out troops. “This legislation sends a negative message to our troops in combat who deserve to be sent the resources and reinforcements they need to succeed in their mission in Iraq without strings and without delay,” said Conaway. “There are only two positions to take on this war: fight the fight and be successful in our efforts or stop the war and get out of Iraq today. There is no middle ground. The ramifications of failure are unspeakable and will result in regional conflict and humanitarian suffering on a vast scale.” Also included in the war supplemental were items such as hurricane programs, spinach programs, drought relief, and more non-war funding items. The supplemental appropriations bill is intended to fund the Global War on Terror. President Bush has said he will veto any legislation that weakens national security and hinders the ability of troops to fight and win the Global War on Violent Islamic Jihadists, and will send it back to Congress to be reworked. Conaway went on to say, “There have been severe natural disasters that have impacted farmers and ranchers throughout the nation, and few states have been hit as hard as Texas. I, along side many of my colleagues, have long called for federal assistance to address the immediate needs of American agriculture and its producers. However, it is wrongheaded to try and use such an important issue as an incentive to abandon our troops and place them in harms way. I cannot, in good conscience, support such an attempt.” “The war supplemental should be about our troops and efforts in the Global War on Terror only. In March of 2008, we cannot ask our young sergeants and lieutenants to send our troops on missions with an approaching deadline. How can we ask our troops to go forward when they know that in two or three weeks they can go home safely without finishing the mission? We can’t. We can’t ask people to put their lives on the line for this fight and set a timetable that is unrealistic and unworkable. This bill is Washington hypocrisy at its best, and I do not support it.”
03.22.2007	Late last night, the House Budget Committee released the final product of the fiscal year 2008 House Budget Resolution. The total budget amounts to $2.96 trillion, and increases non-defense discretionary spending by $23 billion, compared to the President's increase of $8.8 billion. The result is a massive tax increase – the largest in American history. “This proposal holds no accountability, and calls for huge spending increases with no significant reform or offsets,” said Conaway. “Allowing the Republican tax cuts of ’01 and ’03 to expire is irresponsible, and will result in a massive tax increase, hurting hard-working American families, seniors, and the economy in general.” During the mark-up, Congressman Conaway offered two amendments to the budget proposal. Conaway’s “No New Programs” amendment would block the establishment of a new Federal program without the termination of an existing Federal program or programs of equal or greater spending. This amendment failed by a vote of 19-17 in the budget committee. Conaway also offered his “Saving in Appropriations” amendment, which simultaneously cuts federal spending and reduces the deficit. It allows Members of Congress to offer spending reducing amendments to general appropriations bills and, in turn, reduce the deficit or increase the surplus. Conaway withdrew this amendment as Rep. John Spratt (D-SC), Chairman of the House Budget Committee, agreed to hold a hearing to consider the rule. Conaway went on to say, “As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to evaluate the spending process,” said Conaway. “My amendment is commonsense legislation that will help ensure that taxpayer money is being spent wisely. If Congress considers a program or earmark in an appropriations bill unworthy of federal funding, those funds should not be spent and thereby used to reduce the deficit.” “Although I am encouraged that Chairman Spratt will hold hearings on the Savings in Appropriations Act, the Democrats overall budget is more about politics than policy. Higher taxes are not the answer to balancing the budget, reforming the way the government spends taxpayer money is.” Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
03.21.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to the House Democrats’ Fiscal Year ’08 Budget proposal, which calls for the largest tax increase in American history: “Today is a very expensive day for American taxpayers. Allowing the Republican tax cuts of ’01 and ’03 to expire will result in a massive tax increase, placing the burden of the federal governments out of control spending habits squarely on the backs of hard-working American families, seniors, and the economy in general. These tax cuts have led to exceptional economic growth, which has in turn led to millions of new jobs and delivered the lowest national unemployment rate in a generation. As House Democrats continue to expand the federal government, reckless policies like this will lead to job losses and a struggling economy. This proposal is irresponsible at best and I will fight this plan within the House Budget Committee and on the House Floor.” Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
03.14.2007	The City of Brady has received a competitive grant in the amount of $400,000 to fund the Brady Aquatic Park. The grant program is administered by the National Park Service Land and Water Conservation Fund, in conjunction with the Texas Wildlife and Parks Department. “With an increase in the consciousness of public heath and environmental issues, projects such as the Brady Aquatic Park are vital to our growing communities,” said Conaway. “I am pleased these competitive grant programs are able to provide opportunity for the public to enjoy outdoor recreation facilities and improve personal health and well-being.” The city of Brady will utilize a Land and Water Conservation Fund grant to assist in the development of 9.5 acres of donated land adjacent to Richards Park. The project includes the development of a swimming pool with water park amenities, picnic areas, exercise trail, basketball court, game courts, pavilion, climbing boulders and an open space area. For more information on the National Park Service Land and Conservation Fund grants, you may visit their website at http://www.nps.gov/ncrc/programs/lwcf/plan_prjts.html.
03.09.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics announcement that non-farm payroll employment increased by 97,000 in February and the unemployment rate has dropped to 4.5 percent. “Today’s announcement is confirmation that the economy is strong and growing. Our current policies have led to 42 consecutive months of increased payroll employment, adding close to 7.6 million new jobs. Tax relief and fiscal restraint are driving down our deficit, and we must continue our commitment to American taxpayers by continuing our pro-growth policies. Our nation’s businesses and workers are doing their part to keep our economy growing and creating jobs, and I will continue my work in Congress to keep tax burdens low and restrain federal spending.” The Bureau of Labor and Statistics also said job growth in the prior two months was stronger than previously reported, with 226,000 new jobs in December, and 146,000 in January. Average hourly earnings also grew in February, by 0.4 percent, to $17.16. Over the past 12 months, wages have increased by 4.1 percent. Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
03.08.2007	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced an amendment to H.R. 700, the Healthy Community Water Supply Act of 2007, stating that his amendment will provide for additional consideration being given to rural communities in areas that are served by a public water system serving 10,000 or fewer individuals. Heath Shuler (D-NC) co-sponsored the amendment, and was accepted by the House of Representatives by a voice vote. H.R. 700 passed the House by a vote of 368 to 59. "For the past decade, within rural communities throughout the country, home water bills have increased faster than the rate of inflation, and it seems likely that this trend will continue. There are constituents in the rural areas of District 11 who are currently paying upwards of 770% more for water service than that of urban populations due to regulatory items and the inability to spread out costs over a wide basis. As new regulations are implemented and aging infrastructure is replaced, the affordability of water service in rural America will continue to be of great concern. Water systems, consumers, administrators, and policy makers need to focus on the ability of rural households to pay for public water service. This amendment is not a solution to the underlying problem; but it is the recognition of the issue and a step in the right direction.” H.R. 700 H.R. 700 amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (the Clean Water Act) by granting a one-time reauthorization of $125 million for alternative water source projects. Alternative water source projects enhance water supplies by reusing or treating wastewater.
03.05.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) arranged a one-on-one private meeting in his Washington, D.C. office with FutureGen Alliance CEO Mike Mudd. Mudd updated Conaway on Texas’ recent FutureGen efforts and the necessary steps to make in the six months leading up to the site decision. Conaway made the following statement after the meeting: “Odessa’s efforts in the next six months are critical for Odessa to receive the FutureGen site. I will continue working as hard as I can to ensure that Odessa is presented as the best possible site for FutureGen. I appreciate Mike Mudd making the trip to Washington to inform people on this ground-breaking initiative. I commend all of the partners, both on the federal, state, and local levels that have worked together to keep Odessa in the running for this incredible opportunity. Odessa is an exceptional choice for the FutureGen site, as it is uniquely prepared to fully utilize and absorb all of the byproducts from the electric generation facility, and I will continue to treat FutureGen as a top priority until the site decision is made.” The FutureGen Initiative is a $1 billion government/industry partnership to design, build and operate an emission-free, coal-fired electric and hydrogen production plant. The 275-megawatt prototype plant will serve as a large scale engineering laboratory for testing new clean power, carbon capture, and coal-to-hydrogen technologies. It will be the cleanest fossil fuel-fired power plant in the world. Both Odessa and Jewett remain in competition for the FutureGen initiative, along with two sites in Illinois. For more information on FutureGen, you can visit www.futuregenalliance.org.
03.01.2007	Earlier this week, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), along with fellow Congressmen Joe Barton (TX-6) and Chet Edwards (TX-17) organized a meeting with Texas Railroad Commissioner Michael Williams to present members of the Texas Delegation with an update on the FutureGen project. This month, Conaway, along with Rep. Barton and Rep. Edwards sent letters to both the Department of Energy Secretary Sam Bodman, and to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee. The letters, signed by members of the Texas Delegation, showed strong support and determination to bring FutureGen to Texas and asked that it be fully funded to ensure the project moves forward with no interruptions. “Rep. Conaway continues to do outstanding work on behalf of Odessa, both with our local partners in Texas and with his colleagues in Washington,” said Commissioner Williams. “The letter being circulated among the Texas Delegation is a tangible demonstration of the support FutureGen enjoys on both sides of the aisle.” The FutureGen Initiative is a $1 billion government/industry partnership to design, build and operate an emission-free, coal-fired electric and hydrogen production plant. The 275-megawatt prototype plant will serve as a large scale engineering laboratory for testing new clean power, carbon capture, and coal-to-hydrogen technologies. It will be the cleanest fossil fuel-fired power plant in the world. Both Odessa and Jewett remain in competition for the FutureGen initiative, along with two sites in Illinois. “I am impressed with the expedited fashion in which Commissioner Williams and the Department of Energy are moving to make FutureGen a reality,” said Conaway. “My goal was to form a unified Texas Congressional delegation determined to bring FutureGen to Texas, and yesterday’s show of support was just that. We will continue to work together to contribute to this critical effort. Odessa is the home to a large portion of Texas’ energy production and has long been an ardent supporter of innovative energy projects, making it a unique and exceptional choice for the FutureGen site. I appreciate Commissioner Williams traveling to Washington to update us on this landmark project.”
03.01.2007	Monday, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) toured Susie’s South Forty, a Midland-based candy company, which is one of the first in the nation to participate in a national pilot government program to help eliminate the hiring of illegal immigrants. The owner of the company, Susie Hitchcock-Hall, began using the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agreement between Government and Employers (IMAGE) program in 2006. "It is a terrific step by free enterprise to voluntarily comply with the laws of the land,” said Conaway. “Given the demographic projections in this country, we're going to need immigrant labor as far as the eye can see. This key program will ensure that workers who are here illegally cannot have access to jobs." According to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement website, IMAGE is a program whose goal is to assist employers in targeted sectors to develop a more secure and stable workforce and to enhance fraudulent document awareness through education and training. All IMAGE participants gain membership to the Department of Homeland Security Basic Pilot Employment Verification Program. Through this employee authorization verification program, employers can verify that newly hired employees are eligible to work in the United States. This Internet-based system is available in all 50 states and is currently free to employers. Conaway went on to say, “We are a country of immigrants, but we are also a country of law abiding citizens. We have to craft good public policy that protects our taxpayers, but also recognizes that this country has been built by immigrants and that future immigration is going to be very important to our progress. This program is a good step in securing our nation. I commend Susie’s South Forty for participation in this program, and want to encourage more employers to do their part in securing our immigration system.” Employers can visit http://www.ice.gov/partners/opaimage/ for more information on the IMAGE program.
02.23.2007	Earlier this week, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) traveled to Laredo, Texas to meet with Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff on the Texas-Mexico border. The trip provided an opportunity for local lawmakers, members of Congress, and the Department of Homeland security to come together and take a personal look at border security and immigration reform. "It was good to visit with Secretary Chertoff and the many key players involved in the immigration reform debate," said Conaway. "Better decisions are made when we have more facts; this trip provided a good listening session for local mayors and county judges to voice concerns about border security, as well as trade and customs on the US-Mexico border. They also shared their apprehension regarding the Secure Fence Act, and the need for additional legislative assistance given the narrowness of the Act as of now." Secretary Chertoff and Congressman Conaway joined the mayors and county judges from the area, as well as Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) and Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX), whose district consists of the border town of Laredo. Conaway went on to say, "The opinions of the local mayors and county judges are a key component of the planning stage. We must strike a better balance between the security and social components of border enforcement, as there are concerns that not enough attention is being paid to trade and customs. There is an increased volume of goods being traded without the proper infrastructure to be efficient and secure. Their commitment to the affected communities makes their voice in this debate a strong one. We must work together to come up with the best possible comprehensive immigration plan that includes securing our borders, as well as coming up with a well-organized plan to reform trade and customs. ”
02.21.2007	The Granite Shoals Fire Department is the recipient of a $9,120 grant from the 2006 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, which is administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. The grant is for the area of safety and operations.“Congress recognizes the importance first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe,” said Conaway. “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps to ensure that firefighters in Granite Shoals have the tools they need to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives. Fire Act Grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs.”The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/
02.16.2007	This week, the House of Representatives debated a Democrat resolution disapproving of the President’s plan to deploy approximately 20,000 more troops to Iraq. During his January 10 speech to the nation, President Bush announced his strategy for the way forward in Iraq, which included the idea of a troop surge. In accordance with the President’s proposal, additional American troops will deploy to Iraq, primarily to Baghdad, in order to better train the Iraqi military, clear and secure neighborhoods and quell the sectarian violence. As a result of that announcement, House Democrats have brought forth a resolution which criticizes the President’s plan without offering any alternative solution to the situation in Iraq. “This non-binding resolution is nothing more than a political ploy, rather than a venue for substantive debate on the way forward in Iraq,” said Conaway, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “I firmly believe that this rhetoric can be dangerous, and can lend the impression that we do not support the efforts of our troops as they put their lives on the line every day in order to protect our freedom. The American people must understand that the consequences of failure in Iraq are unacceptable, and we cannot risk defeat by the hand of Islamic extremists that seek to destroy us.” The debate on the House Floor this past week will in no way change the President’s plan; it was simply an opportunity for everyone to debate and express their opinion on the troop surge. This non-binding resolution came to a vote today after over 40 hours of debate, and passed by a vote of 246 to 182, with Conaway voting against the resolution. Conaway went on to say, “The last thing we need to do is to have the 535 independent contractors that make up the House and Senate take on the role as five-star generals to decide where not to send the additional troops. I believe this is the first step of a Democrat plan to de-fund the war. The Iraq resolution we debated this week is merely a stunt that holds no water and does nothing but damage the morale of our troops and embolden our enemy that we are fighting. I am disappointed that Democrats continue to play politics while our brave young men and women of our armed forces are in harm’s way. I believe we should be having an open and honest discussion about the implications of success or failure in Iraq, and the options for the road ahead.”
02.14.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) at a House Committee on Agriculture hearing questioned Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns regarding the Administration's farm bill proposals. Congressman Conaway specifically questioned the Administration's proposal to decrease in the Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) eligibility cap for all commodity program payments from the current $2.5 million to $200,000 annually. The Administration’s proposal would also repeal the current provision in law that waves the AGI cap if 75 percent or more of the AGI is derived from farm-based income. “Two vital components of an effective and efficient farm safety net are both stability and predictability. Predictability has also been a stated goal by the Secretary during the 52 Farm Bill Forums that USDA hosted across the country this past year. Given my professional background it is my opinion that the dramatic reduction in eligibility proposed by the USDA is certain to cause individuals to be alternatively eligible and ineligible for programs year after year.” “The idea of introducing unprovoked, or additional elements of instability, such as an all or nothing concept into the financial planning of U.S. farm operations would likely result in an increased amount of insecurity within our nation's agriculture sector and already sensitive rural economies. As a member of the House Committee on Agriculture I will continue to work on behalf of rural America and agriculture as a whole in the coming days of the Farm Bill reauthorization debate to provide both a stable and predictable farm economic environment for both producers and consumers.” Congressman Conaway has previously stated that he appreciates the Administration's efforts and energy in bringing ideas to the table, but it is Congress that will ultimately draft language and direct funding as it relates to farm policy and the Farm Bill. Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture and a Certified Public Accountant.
02.08.2007	Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), along with other Members of the House Committee on Agriculture, met with European Union Farm Commissioner Mariann Fischer Boel this afternoon to exchange views on a variety of issues, including world trade and the reauthorization of the 2007 Farm Bill. This meeting comes on the heels of 150 member-countries of the World Trade Organization gathering in Geneva yesterday to asses the status of the Doha Round of negotiations. Trade talks were suspended in late July by WTO Director General Pascal Lamy. “It is of the utmost importance that we convey to our world trading partners, both current and potential, that the Farm Bill proposal set forth by the Administration last week should not be seen as a revision to our offer in the Doha Round, nor the final piece of legislation that will be sent to the President by Congress. While trade is a vital component of American Agriculture, we must settle for nothing less than an agreement that provides an increase in net income prospects for U.S. farmers and ranchers, while constructing domestic farm policies that provide a stable and predictable farm environment for American producers and consumers. I would like to thank Mrs. Fischer Boel for her efforts in exchanging views. It is my hope that Congress will renew the Administration's trade promotion authority that expires in June so that we may continue working towards a consensus regarding world trade talks and other significantly viable initiatives in the near future.” Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture
02.07.2007	The Lamesa Fire Department has received a grant for $8,981 from the 2006 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide direct assistance to the city of Lamesa. "Congress recognizes the importance first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Fire Act Grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs," said Conaway. "The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps to ensure that firefighters in Lamesa have the tools they need to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives." The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/
01.31.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following comments following Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns unveiling of the Administration's farm bill proposals: “Today the Administration unveiled their farm bill proposals that were based on information gathered by the Secretary of Agriculture, Mike Johanns. USDA’s 52 Farm Bill Forums were held across the country this past year. While I appreciate the Administration bringing ideas to the table, Congress will draft language and direct funding as it relates to farm policy and the 2007 Farm Bill. I will seek input from agriculture producers and other effected parties regarding the Administration’s proposals. I will also continue to keep in mind that I have heard producers consistently voice to me that they would like an extension of the current law. I look forward to working with Chairman Peterson, Ranking Member Goodlatte and all other members on the House Agriculture Committee in reauthorizing the 2007 Farm Bill in the days to come.” Congressman Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
01.24.2007	The Midland Fire Department has received a grant for $169,100 from the 2006 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide direct assistance to the city of Midland. “Congress recognizes the importance first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Fire Act Grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps to ensure that firefighters in Midland have the tools they need to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/
01.24.2007	The Brownwood Fire Department has received a grant for $39,033 from the 2006 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide direct assistance to the city of Brownwood. “Congress recognizes the importance first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Fire Act Grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps to ensure that firefighters in Brownwood have the tools they need to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/
01.24.2007	Tonight, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway sat amongst his colleagues as President Bush gave his annual State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress. The President addressed the major issues facing our country and discussed a domestic agenda for America, including energy, health care, spending reform, education and immigration. He also spoke of his international agenda, including: the War on Terror, Wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, and ways to strengthen our military. Congressman Conaway made the following statement at the conclusion of the address: "We continue to face serious challenges, but we have much to be thankful for as well. Our economy has continued to grow and job creation is at an all-time high. President Bush's promise to cut the deficit in half by 2009 has been met two years ahead of schedule; further proof that the Republican tax relief program is working. President Bush's agenda includes a variety of bold energy policy reforms, one of which addresses America's need for energy independence. I support the President's "Twenty in Ten" goal to reduce U.S. gasoline usage by twenty percent in the next ten years. I am excited to look for ways to develop strategies to reach the stated goal. Ninety-seven percent of our oil usage is for transportation. We must work together to increase domestic oil and natural gas production and the supply of renewable fuels for vehicles, or else we will compromise the security of America. Fuel standards must be based on sound science using cost/benefit analysis rather than the heavy hand of Congress. I applaud the President's reaffirming the importance of the FutureGen clean-coal power plant initiative. The FutureGen project is to be awarded based on competitive criteria. Odessa, Texas has a site that remains in competition. Our number one responsibility remains the safety of Americans. We are engaged in a Global War against violent Jihadists and it is essential that we put aside partisan politics and come together in support of our troops. I support the President's plan to strategically deploy more U.S. troops in Baghdad to help the Iraqi military forces put down secertarian violence and bring security to the population. This plan is dependant on the Iraqi leadership and government living up to the committments given to the President when this plan was formulated. For the good of our country, failure is not an option. Health care reform is another main item on the President's agenda, and I am looking forward to reviewing it, along with the other proposals, in the coming weeks. I anticipate working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to accomplish our mutual goals and keep our nation secure."
01.22.2007	Last week, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) was appointed to serve on the Republican Policy Committee, chaired by Rep. Thaddeus McCotter (R-MI). The Republican Policy Committee is an important means for every member of the Republican Conference to develop sound ideas into sound legislation. "The Policy Committee is an excellent place to engage in thoughtful debate with the hope of developing sound legislation that reaches across party lines and ideological spectrums,” said Conaway. “I am fully committed to our core conservative principles and I am looking forward to working within the committee to compose public policy that is in the best interest of all Americans.” The Policy Committee offers a unique opportunity for participation by members whose legislative ideas do not always coincide with their committee assignments, as well as an especially useful mechanism for addressing important issues that cut across committee jurisdictions. "I am grateful to be able to rely upon Mike’s vision and friendship throughout the next two years, as we rejuvenate our core Republican principles; and articulate beneficial public policies for the consideration of the American people,” said Chairman McCotter. “Mike’s intelligence and integrity command the respect of our entire Republican Conference. Like his Texas constituents, we are all fortunate to have his talents working on behalf of our nation." The Policy Committee also serves as a formal council to meet regularly with the Executive branch to facilitate the formulation and execution of national policy, and to improve relationships between the executive and legislative branches of the Government. Rep. Conaway will continue to serve on the House Agriculture, Armed Services and Budget Committees in the 110th Congress.
01.18.2007	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6, the “Clean Energy Act of 2007”. Congressman Conaway voted against this deeply flawed legislation, which contains tax increases and directly increases the cost of domestic energy production. Conaway offered two amendments to H.R. 6, which were not considered under the closed rule. “In 1998 and 1999, the Clinton Administration entered into legally-binding contracts with energy companies,” said Conaway. “This was an exchanged promise, and the United States Congress should set a proper example to the free-world that it recognizes the importance of a legally binding agreement. Instead we have a bill flawed in its mechanics that didn’t even have the consideration of a committee. As one of my amendments to this rule stated, without formal committee consideration, it is in our best interest to allow the Departments of Energy and the Interior to determine if this legislation will have a negative impact. This bill is more about politics than it is about improving energy policy and our dependence on foreign oil.” Raising taxes on the oil and gas companies will decrease cash flow and thereby reduce the amount that companies are able to invest in exploration and production. This bill taxes the hard-working, risk-taking companies that provide our nation with crude oil and natural gas more harshly than other sectors. These companies are working to lower our dependence on foreign oil by reinvesting multiples of their profits into production. Domestic oil and natural gas producers routinely spend more than they earn in finding and producing energy supplies, and are lowering our dependence on foreign oil. This bill will increase our dependence on foreign oil and aggravate our long-term energy problems. Conaway went on to say, “This bill does the exact opposite of what it says it will. It states that it will reduce our dependence on foreign oil; yet raising taxes on domestic energy producers will hamper domestic production and ultimately make the U.S. more reliant on foreign energy. This is just bad policy.”
01.17.2007	Yesterday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) proposed two amendments to H.R. 6, the “Clean Energy Act of 2007,” which is slated to be voted on in the House of Representatives on Friday, January 19, 2007. In an effort to fix this deeply flawed legislation, Conaway’s first amendment states that H.R.6 shall not take effect until after the Secretary of Energy and Secretary of Interior have determined that it will NOT result in decreased investment in domestic natural gas or crude oil production or decreased domestic supply of natural gas or crude oil. “Without formal committee consideration, it is in our best interest to allow the Departments of Energy and the Interior to determine if this legislation will have a negative impact,” said Conaway. “The stated goal of this bill is to reduce our dependence on foreign oil; yet raising taxes on domestic energy producers will hamper domestic production and ultimately make the U.S. more reliant on foreign energy.” Conaway also introduced an amendment stating that any company that reinvests over 75% of its earnings into additional production will be exempt from this act. Energy producers that are the most active at exploring and producing domestic natural gas and crude oil, on average, reinvest over 100% of their profits. Raising taxes will decrease cash flow and thereby reduce the amount that companies are able to invest in exploration and production. Conaway went on to say, “To tax the hard-working, risk-taking companies that provide our nation with crude oil and natural gas differently than other sectors is wrongheaded, and I will not support it. These companies are actively working to lower our dependence on foreign oil by reinvesting their profits into exploration and research. Domestic oil and natural gas producers routinely spend more than they earn in finding and producing energy supplies, and are lowering our dependence on foreign oil. This bill will simply increase our dependence on foreign oil and exacerbate our long-term energy problems.”
01.16.2007	Last week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on H.R. 2: The Fair Minimum Wage Act 2007. H.R. 2 would raise the minimum wage by $2.10 over 2 years without helping ease the burden this would have on our small businesses. “Small businesses are the lifeblood of the economy and employ a large percentage of our workforce,” said Rep. Conaway, a CPA and small businessman. “This legislation, if enacted without offsetting at least some of the costs to small business, will endanger the jobs of low-income workers and greatly slow the pace of our economy.” Since August of 2003, our economy has added more than 7 million new jobs, posted job gains for 39 straight months and attained a 4.5% unemployment rate. The backbone of this growth is small business. Stand alone minimum wage legislation would force small businesses across Texas and the nation to slow their pace of hiring and possibly lay-off workers. By some accounts, raising the minimum wage as a stand alone measure could result in the loss of up to 1.6 million minimum wage jobs (20% of this workforce). Conaway continued, “I will consider supporting an increase in the minimum wage as long as there is assistance in the form of tax credits or Association Health Plans for small businesses. Only legislation that is fair to both workers and entrepreneurs will sustain our economic growth and ensure our nation remains the strongest economy among all industrialized nations. We should not allow stand alone minimum wage legislation to be enacted.” Another issue with the bill is a last minute exemption added for what appears to be purely political purposes. The bill’s only exemption was American Samoa, whose largest employer, StarKist Tuna, is owned by Del Monte – a company based in Speaker Pelosi's San Francisco district. Starkist Tuna is the Pacific island's top employer and employees there earn an average of only $3.15 per hour. Representative Conaway voted against H.R. 2 as it passed the House of Representatives 315-116.
01.11.2007	Today, Congressman Conaway made the following statement on the passage of the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act (H.R. 3): “There are still many ethical questions regarding stem cell research that are unanswered. I want to encourage the search for crucial all-purpose stem cells, from sources other than embryos, for life-saving research. It is vital that this research be carried out in a way that respects the sanctity of life. It is important that we not sacrifice life for science.” Last year, Congressman Conaway voted in favor of another comprehensive medical research bill, the Stem Cell Therapeutic and Research Act of 2005 (H.R. 2520), which overwhelmingly passed in the House. H.R. 2520 facilitates the use of umbilical-cord-blood stem cells in biomedical research and in the treatment of disease.
01.05.2007	The first order of legislative business was to consider H. Res. 6, which will adopt the House Rules for the 110th Congress. The House of Representatives is not a continuing body; it must reconstitute itself at the beginning of every new Congress, which requires the adoption of rules to govern the House. share: f t Earlier this week, the House of Representatives convened to mark the beginning of the 110th Congress. The first order of legislative business was to consider H. Res. 6, which will adopt the House Rules for the 110th Congress. The House of Representatives is not a continuing body; it must reconstitute itself at the beginning of every new Congress, which requires the adoption of rules to govern the House. Unfortunately, Democrats have not allowed amendments, nor any Republican input, to be brought to the floor as part of the House Rules package, therefore Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced a “stand alone” rule changing resolution that, if enacted, would amend the House Rules. “The Federal Government is spending money at an unsustainable rate,” said Conaway, a CPA and small businessman entering his second term in Congress. “Congress must do a better job of setting priorities. Reducing the deficit and controlling spending should be a top priority and in order to do that, we need to set up mechanisms that halt runaway government growth and spending.” Conaway’s “No New Programs” resolution would change House rules on spending. The “No New Programs” rule change, which is co-sponsored by House Republican Whip Roy Blunt, would make it against House rules to create a new federal program without the elimination of an existing federal program of equal or greater cost. It would force Congress to make tough choices by only creating new programs if they are considered to be a higher priority than an existing program or programs. Conaway concluded, “It is our responsibility to evaluate the spending process. This commonsense rule change proposal would be a step toward ensuring taxpayer money is being spent wisely. I am disappointed that this resolution was not included in the House Rules package today. Congress needs to get serious about healing Washington’s spending disease and I will continue to work on reforming how the federal government spends taxpayer money.”
01.05.2007	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor’s announcement that 167,000 new jobs were created in December and that the unemployment rate held at a steady, and still historically low, 4.5 percent. “Month after month, we continue to receive great news about our economy. Because of the Republican Congress’ tax cut policies, today’s announcement of record job growth in 2006 is no surprise, and is further proof that now is not the time to raise taxes. Our current economic policies have led to exceptional economic growth, which has in turn led to record federal receipts. Our economy is strong and continues to benefit working Americans, feeding our thriving nation. We must continue our commitment to American taxpayers by continuing our pro-growth policies.” For all of 2006, the nation's unemployment rate dropped to a six-year low of 4.6 percent, and payroll employment increased by 1.8 million jobs, an average of 153,000 jobs a month. In 2005, the unemployment rate averaged 5.1 percent.
12.29.2006	Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) returned from Iraq after spending the Christmas holiday with our troops in Baghdad. Conaway, along with 3 other members of Congress, made the trip to receive an updated assessment of the security and political situation in Iraq. They met with various military units stationed in the Baghdad region and talked with senior military commanders and other top U.S. officials. Congressman Conaway made the following statement on his return: "I was intensely impressed with the morale and optimism of our troops. They are aware that we have accomplished a great deal in Iraq, and it is clear that we cannot give up the fight now. However, the violence in and around Baghdad continues to increase, which in turn increases the stakes of our mission. Our mission in Iraq continues to be important for America; however the Iraqi government must do more to protect and provide for its citizens. It is important that we work in a bipartisan manner to do what is best for our troops, as well as for the Iraqi people. I want to personally thank each and every soldier for their deep commitment and sacrifice, and let their families know what a great job they are doing. It was an honor to spend Christmas with our brave men and women.” This was Congressman Conaway’s 4th visit to Iraq since he took office in January of 2004. He is a member of the Armed Services Committee. Other members of Congress that traveled to Iraq were: Rep. Ike Skelton (D-MO), Chairman-designate of the Armed Services Committee, Rep. Jon Porter (R-NV), and Rep. Jim Marshall (D-GA).
12.18.2006	Over the weekend, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) joined a bipartisan group of ten Members of Congress on a Congressional trip to Havana, Cuba. Congressman Conaway has been a strong supporter of the U.S. embargo and wanted to see what is and isn’t working in Cuba. The ten lawmakers met with Cuba's foreign minister, Felipe Perez Roque, national assembly president Alarcon, the Catholic archbishop of Havana, and various diplomats. "I enjoyed my visit and found the Cuban people that I met with individually to be warm, hospitable, and gracious,” said Conaway. “I was discouraged, however, in our meetings with the Cuban government officials, as they made it abundantly clear that they are decidedly uninterested in discussing human rights, free press, and free elections. There are other areas, such as narcotics trafficking, on which I believe we can make progress. Nothing on my trip persuaded me that ending the embargo and travel restrictions would have any positive impact on moving Cuba toward a Democracy. Until Cuban leaders are willing to move toward a working democracy, ending the embargo and opening travel and trade with Cuba is not in the best interest of the United States.” Other members of the delegation were: Rep. Lincoln Davis (D-TN), Rep. Bill Delahunt (D-MA), Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), Rep. Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Rep. Jane Harman (D-CA), Rep. Jerry Moran (R-KS), Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA), Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and Rep. Hilda Solis (D- CA).
12.18.2006	The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted Tom Green County $48,386 in federal funding for the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Congress recognizes the growing problem of hungry and homeless people across the nation," said Conaway. "This funding is allocated to the neediest areas, and ensures fast response and local decision making for food and shelter. I will work with local officials in Tom Green County to help keep our homeless and hungry safe and give them the support they need to get through their temporary hardships." The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation. Program funds are used to provide the following, as determined by the Local Board in funded jurisdictions: Food, in the form of served meals or groceries. Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel. One month's rent or mortgage payment. One month's utility bill. Minimal repairs to allow a mass feeding or sheltering facility to function during the program year. Equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item. For more information on the EFS Program grants for 2007, please visit www.efsp.unitedway.org.
12.15.2006	The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted Midland County $52,379 in federal funding for the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Congress recognizes the growing problem of hungry and homeless people across the nation," said Conaway. "This funding is allocated to the neediest areas, and ensures fast response and local decision making for food and shelter. I will work with local officials in Midland County to help keep our homeless and hungry safe and give them the support they need to get through their temporary hardships." The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation. Program funds are used to provide the following, as determined by the Local Board in funded jurisdictions: ood, in the form of served meals or groceries. Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel. One month's rent or mortgage payment. One month's utility bill. Minimal repairs to allow a mass feeding or sheltering facility to function during the program year. Equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item. For more information on the EFS Program grants for 2007, please visit www.efsp.unitedway.org.
12.15.2006	The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted Ector County $59,377 in federal funding for the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Congress recognizes the growing problem of hungry and homeless people across the nation," said Conaway. "This funding is allocated to the neediest areas, and ensures fast response and local decision making for food and shelter. I will work with local officials in Ector County to help keep our homeless and hungry safe and give them the support they need to get through their temporary hardships."The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance.The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation.Program funds are used to provide the following, as determined by the Local Board in funded jurisdictions: Food, in the form of served meals or groceries. Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel. One month's rent or mortgage payment. One month's utility bill. Minimal repairs to allow a mass feeding or sheltering facility to function during the program year. Equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item. For more information on the EFS Program grants for 2007, please visit www.efsp.unitedway.org.
12.15.2006	The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted Nolan County $7,878 in federal funding for the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Congress recognizes the growing problem of hungry and homeless people across the nation," said Conaway. "This funding is allocated to the neediest areas, and ensures fast response and local decision making for food and shelter. I will work with local officials in Nolan County to help keep our homeless and hungry safe and give them the support they need to get through their temporary hardships.The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation.Program funds are used to provide the following, as determined by the Local Board in funded jurisdictions: Food, in the form of served meals or groceries. Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel. One month's rent or mortgage payment. One month's utility bill. Minimal repairs to allow a mass feeding or sheltering facility to function during the program year. Equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item. For more information on the EFS Program grants for 2007, please visit www.efsp.unitedway.org.
12.15.2006	The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted Brown County $17,731 in federal funding for the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Congress recognizes the growing problem of hungry and homeless people across the nation," said Conaway. "This funding is allocated to the neediest areas, and ensures fast response and local decision making for food and shelter. I will work with local officials in Brown County to help keep our homeless and hungry safe and give them the support they need to get through their temporary hardships.The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation.Program funds are used to provide the following, as determined by the Local Board in funded jurisdictions: Food, in the form of served meals or groceries. Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel. One month's rent or mortgage payment. One month's utility bill. Minimal repairs to allow a mass feeding or sheltering facility to function during the program year. Equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item. For more information on the EFS Program grants for 2007, please visit www.efsp.unitedway.org.
12.15.2006	The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) granted Scurry County $7,492 in federal funding for the Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS) Program. "Congress recognizes the growing problem of hungry and homeless people across the nation," said Conaway. "This funding is allocated to the neediest areas, and ensures fast response and local decision making for food and shelter. I will work with local officials in Scurry County to help keep our homeless and hungry safe and give them the support they need to get through their temporary hardships."The funds are used to help individuals and families with non-disaster, temporary emergency needs. In each funded jurisdiction, a Local Board advertises the availability of the funds, establishes local priorities, selects local non-profit and government agencies to receive supplemental funding, and monitors program compliance. The EFS Program has been in existence since 1983 and was authorized under the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act of 1987. The EFS Program has distributed more than $2.952 billion to communities nationwide, and has accounted for millions of additional meals and nights of shelter to the hungry and homeless most in need across the nation.Program funds are used to provide the following, as determined by the Local Board in funded jurisdictions: Food, in the form of served meals or groceries. Lodging in a mass shelter or hotel. One month's rent or mortgage payment. One month's utility bill. Minimal repairs to allow a mass feeding or sheltering facility to function during the program year. Equipment necessary to feed or shelter people, up to a $300 limit per item. For more information on the EFS Program grants for 2007, please visit www.efsp.unitedway.org.
12.08.2006	Today, Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the House vote on H.R. 6406:“I have consistently stated that I am a proponent of free trade so long as it is also fair trade. With that said, I have unfortunately been forced to cast my first vote against a trade package,” said Conaway. “The provisions in H.R. 6406 regarding Haiti are far from fair and I could not in good conscience support such a measure in its current form. The intent of these provisions is meant to benefit Haiti by granting value-added rules of origin. Regrettably, the stipulations laid out in this bill cannot be enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). In turn, the benefits intended for Haiti will ultimately end up going to China, forcing our domestic producers and manufacturers to operate at a severe disadvantage and under particularly damaging conditions.” Conaway went on to say, “The reason I convey such disappointment in the decision I was forced to make is because there were several items of great importance included within the package, one example being the extension of Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) with Vietnam. I am supportive of this measure as Vietnam will join the WTO in early January. An extension of PNTR is necessary due to the fact that U.S. companies risk losing the full benefits of Vietnam’s wide ranging trade and services opportunities. With 95% of the world’s population residing outside of the United States, trade is, and will continue to be an enormously important component of our economy as well as exceptionally vital to the security and stability of our nation.” The House passed the bill by a vote of 212-184. It is expected to be packaged with the previous tax bill and passed by the Senate.
12.08.2006	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act and the Tax Relief and Health Act of 2006, which are both part of H.R. 6408, a packaged bill expected to be passed by the Senate later this week. It is expected to be signed by President Bush later this month. H.R. 6408 reforms Medicare by improving quality and provider payments, protecting beneficiaries, saving money, and boosting program integrity efforts. It extends several expiring provisions and prevents cuts that would have caused doctors, especially those in rural areas, to stop taking Medicare patients. A tax cut extender package was also renewed. Most important to Texans is a provision which allows deductions on state sales taxes on federal tax returns. In addition to other tax cut extensions, the sales tax deduction will put millions back into the pockets of Texas taxpayers. H.R. 6408 will also enhance our energy independence and security of the United States by providing for exploration, development, and production activities for energy resources in sections of the Gulf of Mexico. “New forms of alternative and clean energy cannot be developed without our current sources of energy, and this legislation will allow more natural gas to be brought to market,” said Conaway. “This is commonsense legislation: When we import energy, we export jobs. Passing this bill will help boost our domestic energy supply, which leads to more jobs, lower gas prices, and greater economic and national security. I would have liked to see more of the original House version in the bill, but this is a good start.” Conaway went on to say, “This bill strikes a compromise between the House and Senate on legislation that is critical to all Americans. It will prevent tax increases, improve the Medicare program, and move us towards energy independence. I will continue working on these important issues in the 110th Congress.”
12.06.2006	Today, Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) issued the following statement after the release of the Iraq Study Group report: “The time has come for us to provide a unified voice for the war in Iraq. As Congress and the President review the recommendations of the report, I will continue to stand behind our mission in Iraq and make decisions that are in the best interests of our country and our troops. Our mission in Iraq continues to be important for America; however the Iraqi government must do more to protect and provide for its citizens. I am confident that this serious report will aid in deciding an appropriate course of action for our mission in Iraq.” Rep. Conaway is a member of the House Armed Services Committee.
11.17.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives held leadership elections for the 110th Congress. House Republicans elected Rep. John Boehner (R-OH) to serve as minority leader, and Rep. Roy Blunt (R-MO) to serve as minority whip. Also elected to the Republican House leadership were: Adam Putnam (FL), Conference Chair; Thaddeus McCotter (MI) Policy Chair; Kay Granger (TX), Vice Chair; John Carter (TX), Conference Secretary; and Tom Cole (OK), National Republican Congressional Campaign (NRCC) chair. Leadership positions will commence when the House reconvenes for the 110th Congress in January. “Although I am disappointed in the outcome of the midterm elections, we as Republicans must recommit ourselves to the ideology that brought us to the majority in 1994,” said Conaway. “We will continue in our commitment to the American people to fight for fiscal responsibility, smaller government, lower taxes and more accountability.” Rep. John Boehner has served as majority leader since February of 2006. Rep. Roy Blunt has served the House of Representatives as majority whip since 2002. Conaway went on to say, “John Boehner and Roy Blunt are committed conservatives who have stayed true to Republican principles and their commitment to the American people. Serving in the minority will be a challenge, but I am confident that we will continue to lead our great nation with dignity and work in a bipartisan manner in the 110th Congress.” Rep. Conaway was just elected to serve his second term in the U.S. House of Representatives.
11.13.2006	The Bangs Volunteer Fire Department has received a grant for $175,750 from the 2006 Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The grant will provide direct assistance to the city of Bangs. “Congress recognizes the importance first responders’ play in keeping our communities safe. Fire Act Grants are vital to our nation’s fire departments and we will continue to work closely with the fire service community to help meet their needs,” said Conaway. “The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program helps to ensure that firefighters in Bangs have the tools they need to do their jobs, improve safety and save lives.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program assists local fire departments to purchase firefighting equipment, fund fire fighter health and safety programs, enhance emergency medical service programs, and conduct fire education programs throughout the United States.The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Programs is administered by the Department of Homeland Security in cooperation with the Department’s United States Fire Administration. For more information on the Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program, please visit the Program Website at http://www.Firegrantsupport.com/, or contact the Grants Program Office at 1-866-274-0960. For more information on USFA, please visit the website at http://www.usfa.fema.gov/.
11.01.2006	Last week, Congressman Conaway was presented the American Farm Bureau Federation’s “Friend of Farm Bureau” award in Coleman, Texas. This congressional award is given to Representatives who have been strong supporters of Farm Bureau issues. “On behalf of the Texas Farm Bureau, I would like to thank Congressman Conaway for all of his hard work for the agriculture community,” said Texas Farm Bureau State Director Lewis Lehman. “We greatly appreciate the leadership role that he has played in the House committee on Agriculture, and his accessibility and receptiveness as we share our concerns. He has proved his commitment to America’s farmers and ranchers.” The award is based on voting records on American Farm Bureau Federation's (AFBF) priority issues established by the Board of Directors, the number of bills that a member has sponsored and co-sponsored, and taking specific leadership roles for Farm Bureau on priority issues and how accessible and responsive that member is to Farm Bureau members and leaders. Congressman Conaway was nominated by the Texas Farm Bureau and approved by the Board of Directors of the AFBF. “I am elated to have received the Friend of Farm Bureau award,” said Conaway. “Agriculture is one of the most important issues that I deal with in Congress. I will continue to offer my support for legislation to aid rural America in providing all Americans with the most abundant, safe, and affordable food and textile supply in the world.”
10.11.2006	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to the Treasury Department’s announcement that the U.S. budget deficit narrowed to $248 billion from $319 billion in 2005. This is the smallest budget deficit since a gap of $157 billion in 2002. “Today’s announcement is confirmation that the economy is strong and growing. President Bush’s promise to cut the deficit in half by 2009 has been met three years ahead of schedule; further proof that his tax relief program is working. Our current policies have led to 19 consecutive quarters of economic growth, which has in turn led to record federal receipts, new jobs, and low unemployment. Tax relief and fiscal restraint are driving down our deficit, and we must continue our commitment to American taxpayers by continuing our pro-growth policies.” Today’s announcement that the fiscal year 2006 deficit is $248 billion is $71 billion less than the 2005 deficit. In February 2004, the Administration pledged to cut the deficit in half from $521 billion, which was the projection for the 2004 deficit. Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
10.09.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement in response to North Korea claiming that it had successfully carried out an underground nuclear test: “North Korea’s announcement that they successfully tested nuclear weapons should be a concern for the international community. I will continue to support President Bush and our diplomats as they work to defend our allies in the region and demand North Korea’s immediate nuclear disarmament. This decision is a huge mistake for North Korea, and is a threat to international peace and security. I want to urge the United Nations Security Council to take immediate action to respond to this unprovoked act.”
10.01.2006	Friday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for the Fiscal Year 2007 (H.R. 5441). This legislation authorizes $1.2 billion for the Department of Homeland Security to establish a security barrier along the border of the United States. “My goal for securing the borders is to provide the U.S. Border Patrol with the right equipment, agents, and the appropriate fencing and vehicle barriers to interdict every person trying to sneak into our country,” said Conaway. “We should approach meeting this goal in a systematic and thoughtful process. The language and funds inserted in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Conference report lays this out in a transparent manner with due oversight that I thoroughly support and consider to be a critical investment in the security of our nation and a responsible use of taxpayer dollars.” The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act specifies: expenses for customs and border protection, fencing, infrastructure, and technology, $1,187,565,000, to remain available until expended designates that the Secretary of Homeland Security submit a plan for expenditures of border security barrier within 60 days of enactment of legislation requires the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives approve the plan $950 million in funding will not be obligated until the plan is approved On September 14th, Congressman Conaway voted against The Secure Fence Act of 2006 (H.R. 6061) citing serious concerns with the bill, as it did not lay out project costs, provide consultation with the proper professionals, or designate oversight of taxpayer dollars by Congress. Conaway went on to say, “Unlike the Secure Fence Act of 2006, funding for the construction of the security fence will be authorized after the Department of Homeland Security plans for the construction. Good governance requires thoughtful planning and consideration of the American taxpayer.”
09.29.2006	Last night, the House passed H.R. 5825, the Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act. This critical legislation will help protect our country from future terrorist attacks by making it easier to monitor terrorist communications. “Our country’s foreign intelligence surveillance laws date from a pre-cell phone, pre-Internet era,” said Conaway. “This bill is a balanced approach that updates the 1978 law, improves congressional oversight, strengthens national security, and protects the liberties of Americans. This legislation will make it easier to monitor terrorist communications and halt terrorist attacks before they happen.” The Electronic Surveillance Modernization Act updates the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act for the Internet/cell phone era to make it technology neutral. It also removes excessive bureaucracy and streamlines the process of applying for a FISA warrant. The act establishes specific rules to govern foreign intelligence surveillance in the wake of an attack on the United States to allow the government to respond swiftly to terrorist threats. It also outlines specific rules in the event of an imminent threat against the United States. Finally, the act increases congressional oversight to ensure that all Americans’ civil liberties are protected. Conaway went on to say, “This legislation will provide the President with tools necessary to win the War on Terror. Updating our laws is crucial if we hope to successfully combat 21st century threats.”
09.29.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced the Savings in Appropriations Resolution in the House of Representatives. This resolution amends the rules of the House to allow Members of Congress to offer budget reducing amendments to general appropriations bills and, in turn, will reduce the deficit or increase the surplus. “As Members of Congress, it is our responsibility to evaluate the spending process,” said Conaway. “This commonsense legislation will help ensure that taxpayer money is being spent wisely. If Congress considers a program or earmark in an appropriations bill unworthy of federal funding, those funds should not be spent and thereby used to reduce the deficit.” Under current House Rules, Members of Congress cannot introduce an amendment to an appropriations bill with instructions to reduce funding for a program and redirect that funding to deficit reduction. Some Members of Congress are dissatisfied with the current process and are upset that successful efforts to eliminate funds for certain projects do not reduce the deficit, but result in that money being added for other programs. This legislation would give the Congress the flexibility to revisit decisions on the total amount of discretionary spending as each appropriations bill is debated on the House Floor. “Congress should make responsible spending decisions and make reducing the deficit a top priority,” said Conaway. “This resolution puts a much needed tool in our hands.” Original co-sponsors include: Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), Rep. Paul Ryan (R-WI), Rep. John Shadegg (R-AZ), Rep. Tom Tancredo (R-CO), Rep. Joe Wilson (R-SC), Rep. John Campbell (R-CA), Rep. Marilyn Musgrave (R-CO), Rep. Henry Cuellar (D-TX) and Rep. Randy Neugebauer (R-TX). Rep. Conaway is a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee.
09.29.2006	This week, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for the Fiscal Year 2007. This legislation authorizes $447.5 billion for the Department of Defense to fund critical defense needs, including troop protection, operation and maintenance, research and development, and wartime appropriations to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Congressman Conaway was instrumental in helping fund two projects important to West Texas. Goodfellow Air Force Base in San Angelo received $1.7 million in funding for their Distributed Common Ground Station (DCGS) Formal Training Unit. The DCGS training unit is under the 17th Training Group at Goodfellow, and is the Air Force’s single focal point for the development of standardized training materials. “The success of this unit is critical as the United States looks to enhance our ability to gather, analyze and act on intelligence,” said Conaway. “I am glad that Congress recognizes the vital role that Goodfellow plays in fighting and winning the Global War on Terror.”The bill also includes funding to support the construction of a next-generation nuclear reactor in Andrews, which will be used to conduct scientific research and train nuclear engineers studying at the University of Texas at the Permian Basin in Odessa. Conaway went on to say, “UTPB is an outstanding institution, and bringing this initiative to the area will certainly further their opportunities. I am proud that members of Congress were able to come together to pass this bill with such an overwhelming bipartisan vote. I want to especially thank Senator Hutchison for all of her hard work in the Senate for this initiative.”Among other things, the conference report to the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (H.R. 5631) provides the following:Full funding for a 2.2 percent military personnel pay raise;$1.9 billion for new improvised explosive device countermeasures to protect our troops on the ground;Almost $23 billion to ensure the Army and Marine Corps troops are fully equipped with updated and refurbished equipment;$9.4 billion for ballistic missile defense;$937 million to fight narcoterrorism and fund the Department of Defense’s counter-drug activities; and$70 billion to fund the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.
09.29.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act for the Fiscal Year 2007 (H.R. 5441). This legislation authorizes $1.2 billion for the Department of Homeland Security to establish a security barrier along the border of the United States. "My goal for securing the borders is to provide the U.S. Border Patrol with the right equipment, agents, and the appropriate fencing and vehicle barriers to interdict every person trying to sneak into our country," said Conaway. "We should approach meeting this goal in a systematic and thoughtful process. The language and funds inserted in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Conference report lays this out in a transparent manner with due oversight that I thoroughly support and consider to be a critical investment in the security of our nation and a responsible use of taxpayer dollars." The Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act specifies: expenses for customs and border protection, fencing, infrastructure, and technology, $1,187,565,000, to remain available until expended designates that the Secretary of Homeland Security submit a plan for expenditures of border security barrier within 60 days of enactment of legislation requires the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives approve the plan $950 million in funding will not be obligated until the plan is approved On September 14th, Congressman Conaway voted against The Secure Fence Act of 2006 (H.R. 6061) citing serious concerns with the bill, as it did not lay out project costs, provide consultation with the proper professionals, or designate oversight of taxpayer dollars by Congress. Conaway went on to say, "Unlike the Secure Fence Act of 2006, funding for the construction of the security fence will be authorized after the Department of Homeland Security plans for the construction. Good governance requires thoughtful planning and consideration of the American taxpayer."
09.27.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 (H.R. 6166) by a vote of 253 to 168. This legislation establishes the framework by which we can bring to justice unlawful enemy combatants that violate the laws of war, engage in hostile acts against the U.S., or materially support those that do so. The legislation strikes a balance between protecting the basic rights of accused terrorists and ensures that we can continue to effectively combat terrorism. The measure fully conforms to Common Article 3 of the Geneva Convention, as well as all applicable U.S. laws and international treaty obligations. H.R. 6166 authorizes the President to establish military commissions to try terrorists engaged in hostilities against the U.S. for any offense committed before, on, or after September 11, 2001. “This legislation includes vital provisions to preserve our ability to question key terrorist leaders and operatives,” said Conaway. “We will continue to hunt down and capture these dangerous individuals, and as we do, these commissions will insure that those who do us harm will be punished in accordance to our constitution and international treaties. This legislation will bring terrorists to justice and give the President the tools he needs to protect the American people.” The men that have been held at Guantanamo Bay have provided valuable information that has saved innocent lives and unraveled numerous terrorist plots across the globe. Information from detainees questioned in this program has helped to unravel plots and terrorist cells, including the capture of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed (KSM), who was one of the masterminds behind the September 11th attacks. Conaway went on to say, "We are fighting this war on a new type of battlefield with a new type of enemy. I am pleased that we were able to construct a mechanism to bring those who seek to do us harm to justice. It is time that these terrorists face the consequences of their actions.” The Senate is expected to act on a similar measure as early as today. Congressman Conaway is an Army Veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee. He serves on the Military Personnel and the Tactical Air and Land Subcommittees.
09.26.2006	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) testified before the House Committee on Ways and Means on the subject of tax reform. The committee held the hearing to listen to proposals from Members of Congress on reforming our federal tax system. “As a CPA and small business owner, I know how complicated and inefficient our current tax code is,” said Conaway. “Our most important goal, when it comes to tax policy, should be to put in place a tax collection scheme that collects the minimum amount of taxes needed to support the federal government. A national sales tax would simplify our current tax structure.” The Fair Tax plan (H.R. 25), introduced by Congressman John Linder (R-GA), is a federal tax plan that would eliminate all federal income, payroll, personal, gift, estate, capital gains, alternative minimum, Social Security, Medicare, self-employment, and corporate taxes. All of these taxes would be replaced with a simple progressive national retail sales tax. The plan includes a tax rebate to ensure that Americans living at or below the poverty level do not pay federal taxes. By taxing only what we choose to spend and not what we earn, the Fair Tax creates a system that is totally transparent and simple to comply with. Conaway went on to say, "Americans waste over 6.5 billion hours every year filling out tax forms, keeping records, and learning new tax rules. The most effective and efficient tax system is one where the average taxpayer doesn’t need an accountant to file their tax return.”
09.21.2006	Today, Congress voted on 3 important pieces of legislation that will further aid in protecting America’s borders and controlling illegal immigration. The Community Protection Act of 2006, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006, and the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006, all passed the House of Representatives. The bills were developed after more than 20 field hearings were held across the nation during July and August. “The time has come for us to provide answers to the complex and growing problem of immigration, and this legislation is a good step in the right direction,” said Conaway (R-TX). “I believe that in order to have an effective immigration plan, we must take different steps in dealing with the issues at hand. First and foremost, we must deal with the security on our border, then we can deal with the millions of people who are in our country illegally and form policies for rational immigration reform.” H.R. 6094, the Community Protection Act of 2006, will detain dangerous illegal immigrants who are unable to be deported, expedites the removal of illegal criminals, and detains and deports illegal gang members. H.R. 6095, the Immigration Law Enforcement Act of 2006, reaffirms the authority of state and local law enforcement to implement immigration laws and imposes a “catch and return” program instead of a “catch and release” program. H.R. 4830, the Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2006, will criminalize the construction and financing of border tunnels. Conaway went on to say, "We are a country of immigrants, but we are also a country of law abiding citizens. We have to craft good public policy that protects our taxpayers, but also recognizes that this country has been built by immigrants and that future immigration is going to be very important to our progress. Enforcement of our reformed immigration laws will send a clear message to immigrants in every country that the only path to a job in America is to come here legally.”
09.14.2006	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following comments after a joint press conference with Senator John Thune (R-SD) and Congressman Jerry Moran (R-KS) on the need for disaster relief: “Severe natural disasters have seriously impacted farmers and livestock producers throughout the nation. The state of Texas has been no exception and has been hit particularly hard by drought and destructive range fires. These disasters have led to extremely adverse conditions in the agriculture industry. We appreciate the recent relief provided by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) in using existing authorities to address the critical needs facing producers, however much more must be done. We must provide real disaster relief to our producers.” “I will continue to offer my support for legislation to assist producers who are suffering from severe financial losses as a result of unpredictable, adverse weather conditions. Rural America needs our help; and in return they will continue to provide all Americans with the most abundant, safest and affordable food supply in the world.” Congressman Conaway serves on the House Agriculture Committee.
09.13.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly voted to pass House Resolution 994, which remembers the fifth anniversary of the terrorist attacks launched against the United States on September 11, 2001. “September 11, 2001 will be recorded as one of the most tragic and horrific days in the history of our nation. On the fifth anniversary of that dark Tuesday in September, it is important to remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the first responders who sacrificed their lives for others, and our men and women in uniform who now risk their lives every day for the sake of freedom. The attacks of that day have forced us to commit ourselves to our security and the long fight against terrorism. This war is far from over, but we will continue to be steadfast in our mission until the Islamic extremists are put to justice and freedom has prevailed.” Congressman Conaway serves on the House Armed Services Committee.
09.11.2006	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement on the fifth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: “Today marks the fifth anniversary of the September 11th attacks. That day will be recorded as one of the most tragic and horrific in the history of our nation. September 11th, 2001 was a day when we once again lost our innocence. On the morning of September 11, 2001, every American woke up to a new kind of terror and a life forever changed. On the fifth anniversary of that dark Tuesday in September, it is important to remember the innocent Americans who lost their lives, the first responders who sacrificed their lives for others, and our men and women in uniform who risk their lives every day for the sake of freedom. “For far too long, we lived in a dream world; unaware of the ruthlessness of those who wished to do us harm. The days and weeks that followed the attack were filled with sorrow and a sense of patriotism not felt since the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941. The events of September 11th forced us to commit ourselves to our security and the long fight against terrorism.” “The Global War on Terror started long before September 11, 2001. Prior to that day, the terrorists were on the offensive around the world, but rarely did it affect our daily lives. But when terror arrived on our doorstep, that role was quickly reversed. This war is unlike any war we have fought. The American people have learned that freedom does not come without cost, hardship and heartbreak. There are setbacks, and there is criticism, but we will continue to be steadfast in our mission until the terrorist insurgents are defeated.” “We have made great progress in the last 5 years to protect our way of life. We have captured many key terrorist leaders linked to the September 11th attacks, helped thwart other terror plots both at home and around the world, including the most recent foiled attack in London, and helped liberate more than 50 million people in Afghanistan and Iraq. But the Global War on Terror is far from over and will be a struggle for years to come. We must never forget the events of that gruesome day and we must stay diligent to never back down in this fight. Today should be a day of hope and healing. It is an opportunity to pay tribute to the men, women, and children who perished on that day, as well as to honor those who continue to keep us safe and lead our global fight against Islamic Jihadists.” Congressman Conaway serves on the House Armed Services Committee.
09.11.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement in response to President Bush’s address to the nation on the 5th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Last night, President Bush re-committed himself to the Global War on Terror and kept his word to the Iraqi people that America will stand up for freedom and not run in the face of danger. I share the President’s sympathies and heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of those who perished in the September 11th attacks on our homeland, as well as those who have lost men and women in uniform to the fight against terror. Our nation has suffered trials and we still have a difficult road ahead. Winning this war will require the unwavering efforts of a unified country, and I will continue to stand beside the President as we work to defeat our enemies and protect the American people. Now, more than ever, we must continue to stay on the offensive and do what is necessary here at home to keep Americans safe.” Representative Conaway is a member of the House Armed Services Committee.
09.08.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the announcement of the Agriculture Ministry in Seoul, stating that South Korea would resume imports of U.S. boneless beef 30 months of age and younger: “This announcement is a step in the right direction and I welcome it, however there is still much work to be done. The bone-in beef and variety meats market in South Korea, which historically accounted for roughly half of the value of U.S. beef exports to South Korea, will continue to be shut out. Because only boneless beef from animals 30 months and younger will be allowed, the amount of beef exported to South Korea will be significantly lower than in 2003. We must continue to work with our trading partners striving for trade that is supported by science-based international guidelines. ” South Korea had previously been the United States' third-largest export market for beef and beef products before the country banned U.S. beef in late 2003, after the first case of bovine spongiform encephalopathy was discovered in the United States. In 2003 South Korea imported $825 million worth of U.S. beef and beef products, boneless beef representing roughly $449 million of the total market. Health authorities have cleared 36 processors to begin shipping beef within a month. The processors will be notified formally on Monday. Representative Conaway is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a member of the subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture.
08.31.2006	This past weekend, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) traveled to Panama to observe the PANAMAX 2006 exercises. PANAMAX 2006 is a multinational training exercise to defend the Panama Canal and involves both civil and military forces from the region. The exercises are intended to replicate potential real world threats to the Canal and develop appropriate responses to those threats with the overall goals of protecting and guaranteeing safe passage through the Canal. “These exercises give us the opportunity to promote cooperation and build working relationships,” said Conaway. “I am impressed with the professionalism and cooperation between the various countries. These exercises reinforced the security of the Panama Canal and trained the multi-national force.” The USS Kearsarge will serve as the command and control platform for the multinational force conducting the exercises. Ships, aircraft, and personnel from 19 countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France, Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the United Kingdom, United States, and Uruguay, responded to a variety of simulated events affecting this vital waterway. 13,000 ships transit the Panama Canal every year. Conaway went on to say, “These annual PANAMAX exercises are important and should be continued. I hope that future exercises can be expanded to include more countries and that the complexity of the exercises will continue to evolve to replicate ongoing potential threats to the Canal.”
08.10.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement in response to Britain’s announcement that it had obstructed a terrorist plot to blow up passenger flights between the United States and England. British officials have arrested 21 people in connection with the plan, which they described as being a well advanced, “major terrorist plot.” “Today’s findings are further proof that the War on Terror is global and far from over. I want to commend the security officials in Great Britain for their diligent work in thwarting the terrorist plot and arresting the individuals involved. We must continue in our work to protect the American people and the freedoms that we share. The Global War on Terror is very real. On September 11, 2001, our nation was attacked by the same Islamic fascists who aim to destroy the American way of life. Now, five years later, as our enemy continues to plot against us, we must continue the fight until they are defeated.”
07.27.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement regarding Japan's announcement that it would resume imports of U.S. beef cattle ages 20 months and younger: “I am pleased by the news that the Japanese market has been re-opened to U.S. beef products under 20 months of age. Although there is much work to be done, this is an important step towards normalized beef trade relations with Japan. We must continue to work with our trading partners striving for trade that is supported by science-based international guidelines. ” Representative Conaway is a member of the House Agriculture Committee and a member of the subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture.
07.26.2006	Today, Congressman Conaway’s (R-TX) Fuel Consumption Education Act unanimously passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Conaway, a former small business executive in the oil and natural gas industry, introduced the legislation that establishes a fuel conservation public-education campaign aimed at lowering the rising demand for gasoline in the short term. “The high price of gasoline is taking a severe toll on the pocketbooks of all Americans,” said Conaway. “This awareness campaign will be aimed at reducing the overall demand for gasoline by informing drivers of how they can cut down on fuel consumption. The problem of high gas prices requires both long-term and short-term solutions. This campaign is one way we can help tackle the problem in the short term.” The Fuel Consumption Education Act will create a public-private partnership between the Department of Energy and industry groups, including the automotive, gasoline refining, and oil sectors to create a public education campaign that provides information to U.S. drivers about IMMEDIATE measures that may be taken to conserve fuel. The bill authorizes $13 million of funds already appropriated to the Department of Energy. This public information campaign will reach a wide audience and include television, print, and internet advertising. In January 2001, rapidly increasing energy demand led to rolling blackouts in California. As part of an effort to combat rising energy costs, a public-private conservation campaign was undertaken to help reduce demand. Over the course of the year, Californians reduced peak demand by 89 percent and total consumption by 6.7 percent, saving millions of dollars. Conaway went on to say, “I am pleased that my colleagues recognize the importance of this legislation. It is essential that the public realize that there is something they can do today to combat high gas prices and keep money in their pockets. We will now turn our attention to the Senate and try to get this to the President’s desk this year.” This is the first bill introduced by Congressman Conaway that has passed the House of Representatives.
07.26.2006	Today, Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki made a visit to Washington to address a joint session of Congress to discuss the current situation in Iraq and plans for continued progress in the Global War on Terror. “Today’s visit by Prime Minister al-Maliki was a reaffirmation that we will continue to stand beside Iraq until all Iraqis can share the universal values of freedom. Iraq is the forefront in the Global War on Terror, and it is our shared duty to ensure that the terrorist insurgents are defeated. The progress in Iraq is real and substantial. I want to commend the Iraqi military for their courage in this fight, and the people of Iraq for being a part of history in helping to form a prosperous Democracy in the heart of the Middle East.”
07.25.2006	Today, the U.S. Department of Energy and the FutureGen alliance announced its ‘short list’ of candidate sites that have been selected for the FutureGen project, keeping Odessa in the running as the possible location. “I am pleased with the Department’s progress in the development of what will become America’s electric power plant of the future,” said Conaway. “Odessa is the home to a large portion of Texas’ energy production and has long been an ardent supporter of innovative energy projects, making it a unique and exceptional choice for the FutureGen site.” Of the twelve sites that were still competing for the project location, four of them are still in the running. Odessa, along with Mattoon, Illinois, Tuscola, Illinois, and Jewett, Texas will continue to drive their proposals to the Department of Energy in hopes that they will be chosen as the host location for the FutureGen power plant. Conaway went on to say, “Odessa possesses all the requirements necessary to make FutureGen a success. The people of Odessa and the Permian Basin support what the Department of Energy is seeking to accomplish. They have the kind of pioneering spirit that has driven the economy of the area for decades. I am looking forward to working with the selection team at the FutureGen alliance, as well as the Department of Energy to bring this important project to West Texas.” The FutureGen Initiative is a $1 billion government/industry partnership to design, build and operate an emission-free, coal-fired electric and hydrogen production plant. The 275-megawatt prototype plant will serve as a large scale engineering laboratory for testing new clean power, carbon capture, and coal-to-hydrogen technologies. It will be the cleanest fossil fuel-fired power plant in the world.
07.24.2006	U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after it was announced today that worldwide trade talks had been suspended. World Trade Organization Director-General Pascal Lamy is expected this morning to confirm the indefinite suspension of the talks. “While it is disappointing that the G-6 Ministers were not able to come to a consensus last night, I applaud the tireless efforts of Sec. Johanns and Ambassador Schwab on behalf of American producers. With 95% of the world’s population residing outside of the United States, and over a quarter of cash receipts in agriculture coming from export markets, trade is, and will continue to be an extremely important component of American Agriculture. However, the statement that no agreement is better than a bad agreement still holds true. I will continue to work with Secretary Johanns and Ambassador Schwab to level the playing field and advance the interests of American Agriculture.” It was announced today by the Indian Trade Minister that talks had been suspended and said "it would take anywhere from months to years" to restart them. Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
07.21.2006	Yesterday, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) announced that the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved the Fiscal Year 2007 Department of Defense Appropriations bill. The bill includes funding to support the construction of a next-generation nuclear reactor in Andrews, which will be used to conduct scientific research and train nuclear engineers studying at UT Permian Basin. “I want to thank Senator Hutchison for making UTPB a priority in the Senate Appropriations Bill. UTPB is an outstanding institution, and bringing this initiative to the area would only further their opportunities. I will continue to work with the Senator and my colleagues in the House of Representatives to keep the funding in the final bill. ”
07.20.2006	Today, Congressman Conaway wrote a letter to Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, congratulating him on the advancement of the FutureGen project and continuing the push for Odessa as the proposed site. “Odessa is a natural choice for the FutureGen Initiative,” said Conaway. “It is an active community, possesses all necessary resources, and has an innovative and ambitious economy. I am confident that Odessa is the best choice, and I am looking forward to working with the Department of Energy to keep FutureGen moving swiftly in the right direction.” On Tuesday, July 25th, the Department of Energy and the FutureGen alliance is set to announce the ‘short list’ for the remaining eligible FutureGen sites. Odessa is one of twelve sites still in the running for the proposed site. The FutureGen initiative is a $1 billion government/industry partnership to design, build and operate a zero emission, coal-fired electric and hydrogen production plant.
07.20.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed a resolution that reaffirms America’s steadfast support for the State of Israel: “The unprovoked attacks against Israeli soldiers and innocent civilians by Hezbollah are horrifying and deplorable. Israel has the right to defend itself against Hezbollah and take action to eradicate terrorists operating within and across its borders. Hezbollah has consistently sponsored and initiated terrorist attacks spanning the past 24 years. It is essential that we support the right to defend against these heinous attacks and also condemn the state sponsors of terrorism. My condolences go out to all the families of the innocent victims of this recent violence.” Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Armed Services Committee.
07.20.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the United States-Oman Free Trade Agreement. “This trade agreement represents more than simple economics and trade,” said Conaway. “It is about building and maintaining a vital relationship with a Middle Eastern ally with a moderate foreign policy and proven leadership in the advancement of peace. Agreements such as the Oman Free Trade Agreement are a fundamental ingredient in the ongoing fight against terrorism.” The United States and Oman entered into negotiations for a bilateral free-trade agreement in 2005. The Senate passed the agreement last month. This trade agreement will help diversify the economy of Oman, improve opportunities for U.S. investment and create employment opportunities for the people of Oman. Oman has been a proven leader in the Persian Gulf in establishing trade and other ties with Israel. Since 1970, Oman has expanded its diplomatic relations dramatically and traditionally supports Middle Eastern peace initiatives. In 1994, Oman became the first Gulf State to host an Israeli Prime Minister. Oman was one of the first regional states to offer recognition to the US-appointed Iraqi Governing Council in 2003 and backed the Iraqi elections that took place in January 2005. Conaway went on to say, “Oman is our ally, period. This agreement illustrates the importance of trade liberalization and security cooperation, both of which further our national interests from economic and security standpoints. Oman has remained steadfast in maintaining a cooperative stance with the US and UK, confirming their position as a dependable and stable regional ally. We must not turn our back on a Middle Eastern peace promoting leader as dependable and critical as Oman.”
07.19.2006	Today, the House of Representatives passed The Pledge Protection Act (H.R. 2389), which will prevent federal judges and lawyers from denying Americans of their right to recite the Pledge of Allegiance. “Americans have been people of faith since the beginning of this country, and the words ‘under God’ in the Pledge of Allegiance plainly acknowledge this fact,” said Conaway. “This legislation will ensure that Americans who choose to recite the Pledge may do so freely. The Pledge is a statement of our faith in our county, and our flag as an undying symbol of freedom.” The Pledge Protection Act removes the Pledge from the jurisdiction of Federal courts, and gives state courts the authority to rule on the constitutionality of the Pledge for their state only. Conaway went on to say, “America is built on a system of checks and balances. The power of Congress to limit jurisdiction of the courts is one of the primary checks on the power of the Judiciary.”
07.13.2006	Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), issued the following statement on the House passage of the Voting Rights Act: “After careful and thoughtful consideration, I could not in good conscience vote in support of HR 9, the reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act (VRA). The 1965 VRA successfully protected minority voters from disenfranchisement and strengthened our democracy. I support that law and realize its valuable contributions to our society. Every citizen of this great nation, regardless of race, should have the opportunity to cast their vote without fear of threats or discrimination. The VRA was a good idea and necessary in 1965, however, times have changed drastically since it was originally enacted more than 40 years ago. During the debate, a good friend of mine, Rep. Roscoe Bartlett of Maryland, made the comment: “When you get sick, you go to the doctor and you get a prescription. Once you get well you stop taking the medicine.” The provisions of the Voting Rights Act we voted on today do not recognize the accomplishments and progress made by covered states since the original VRA was enacted. Today, the majority of electoral discrimination cases come from outside the jurisdictions that are covered under Section 5. The Voting Rights Act up for debate today should have recognized the many changes and improvements in the American South. Under the bill that passed today, Texas remains one of only eight states subject to this gross infringement on state’s rights. Today, Texas is one of the most diverse states in the entire nation with thriving minority communities throughout the state. Not only do the reauthorized provisions in the VRA not take into account the progress that has been made, these provisions will be used as an unfunded mandate on southern states for the next 25 years. Legislation created in 1965 to fix a problem of that era, will still be in effect in 2032; far too long to pay a penalty for things that happened generations ago. I support the valuable history and importance of the Voting Rights Act that passed in 1965, but the discriminatory problems we face today were not addressed or considered in this reauthorization. I support most of the provisions and the spirit of the VRA, however, HR 9 does not advance our democracy and keeps in place the taints of previous generations that are no longer deserved.”
07.13.2006	Last week, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) traveled down to the Marfa Sector of the Texas-Mexico border to take a personal look at border security and immigration issues. The trip took place July 6th-July 8th. “I wanted to see and hear for myself what the needs of our border patrol agents are,” said Conaway. “Better decisions are made when we have more facts. After my visit, it was clear that our border patrol agents are working hard at their mission. They are, however, under staffed and in need of more and better equipment. More helicopters, cameras, vehicles, and most importantly housing are still needed. They have hard jobs and work in harsh environments. It is essential that they have the means necessary to secure our country to the fullest.” During the visit, Conaway met with Sector Chief Simon Garza, Jr. and the Deputy Border Patrol Chief Louis Barker. They took a vehicle tour and examined the daytime operations of the agents, as well as observed nighttime operations in other remote areas of the border. They also took a helicopter tour of the Marfa Sector and border area, including the Sierra Blanca and checkpoint. Conaway went on to say, “I am confident that a comprehensive border security and immigration reform plan will come together in the near future.” The Marfa Sector covers over 135,000 square miles encompassing 118 counties in Texas and Oklahoma. It is responsible for the largest geographical area of any sector along the Southwest border.
07.11.2006	Today, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) issued the following statement in response to the Treasury Department projections that rising tax revenues will help Congress cut the deficit in half by 2009: “Today’s announcement of the sharp rise in tax revenues is great news for our economy. Despite the fact that spending has increased due to hurricane relief and the Global War on Terror, our federal budget deficit is projected to be lower than anticipated. Our current economic policies have led to exceptional economic growth, which has in turn led to record federal receipts. Our economy is surging, benefiting working Americans and keeping our nation prosperous. Tax relief and fiscal restraint are driving down our deficit, and we must continue our commitment to American taxpayers by continuing our pro-growth policies. Now is not the time to think about raising taxes.” In June, the U.S. economy created 121,000 new jobs and maintained a low 4.6 percent unemployment rate. 5.4 million new jobs have been created since August 2003, and we have had 34 consecutive months of sustained job creation. Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
07.06.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced his upcoming trip to the Border Patrol’s Marfa Sector to take a frontline look at border security and immigration issues. The trip will take place July 6th- July 8th. “I am going to this isolated sector of the border for an in-depth review of how the current enforcement of our border is being accomplished,” said Conaway. “I want to see and evaluate the day to day obstacles that these agents are facing so we may better equip them for interdiction of every illegal crossing. It is important as a member of Congress that I take a look at our border issue so that I can ensure our border patrol agents have the means necessary to secure our country to the fullest.” During the visit, Conaway will take a vehicle tour and examine the daytime operations of the agents. Later that evening, he will observe nighttime maneuvers in other remote areas of the border. He will also take a helicopter tour of the Marfa Sector and border area, including Sierra Blanca and Big Bend National Park. Stops are arranged along the tour for Conaway to personally visit with on-duty Border Patrol Agents and get their input of our border security issues. The Marfa Sector covers over 135,000 square miles encompassing over 118 counties in Texas and Oklahoma It is responsible for the largest geographical area of any sector along the Southwest border.
06.30.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement in response to the agreement with China to reopen the trade of U.S. beef: “I am pleased with China’s decision to reopen this global market for U.S. beef. We are all better served when international trade is based on decisions of sound science and internationally recognized standards. I am disappointed with the announcement of a limited market opening, but we will continue to work closely with China until U.S. beef is once again fully accepted into the Chinese market. It is of the utmost importance that China recognizes the U.S. food safety inspection system as a single, successful system and act accordingly in resuming trade.” Congressman Mike Conaway serves on the House Committee on Agriculture.
06.29.2006	On Thursday, the House of Representatives passed the Deep Ocean Energy Resources (DOER) Act by a bipartisan vote of 232 to 187. This bill will open the door to more domestic drilling and provides numerous economic benefits. “Energy is the lifeline of every economy,” said Conaway. “Producing more oil and natural gas domestically leads to more jobs, lower gas prices, and greater economic and national security. The U.S. has the means to drill in the deep waters out of view our coastline, and this is something that we need to be doing. This bill gives us greater access to domestic energy resources for our economy.” The DOER Act is designed to modernize a key aspect of the nation’s energy policy by allowing more of our substantial energy resources to be produced in the deep seas on the outer-continental shelf (OCS). For the past 25 years, the federal government has had a ban on oil and gas drilling in most U.S. coastal waters. This legislation maintains a ban on drilling within 50 miles off the shoreline, and allows coastal states to make the decision to extend that up to 100 miles. This gives these states a reasonable amount of control over their coasts, and opens the door to more drilling. The environmental safety of offshore energy production facilities was tested when Hurricanes Katrina and Rita ripped through the heart of the Gulf of Mexico in 2005. Almost 3000 offshore platforms were in the direct path of the hurricanes. Production was shut down, platforms were evacuated and production restarted without any loss of life and without any spills. Conaway went on to say, “When we import energy, we export jobs. This is commonsense legislation. We will be able to create thousands of new jobs here at home, as well as create more domestic energy for our economy at the same time.” Congressman Conaway also worked closely with the House Resources Committee to include provisions that provide funds from royalty receipts to support programs at colleges and universities that will train skilled workers in the oil and gas industries. Also included is an oil and gas industry education scholarship program that has a preference for Iraq and Afghanistan veterans.
06.28.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement regarding today’s Supreme Court decision to uphold most of the current Texas congressional map that was drawn as a result of redistricting in 2003: “Today’s Supreme Court assessment clearly demonstrates the constitutionality of the Texas redistricting process. I am hopeful that the problems found in District 23 can be quickly and easily resolved; Texans deserve the certainty of knowing who their elected officials are and that their Congressional delegation reflects the voting patterns of their state. I deeply enjoy serving the people of Texas’ District 11 and I am looking forward to continuing to do so as long as they see fit.” Congressman Conaway was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 2004.
06.22.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement in response to the agreement with Japan to reopen the trade of U.S. beef. Japanese audit teams will arrive in the U.S. this weekend and conclude their work by the end of July. Upon completion of the audits, Japan has agreed to immediately resume beef trade. “The agreement to reopen beef trade with Japan is a step in the right direction; however our work is far from over. I applaud the work of US negotiators thus far, but we must continue to work with Japan until U.S. beef is once again fully accepted into the Japanese market. It is of the utmost importance that Japan recognizes the U.S. food safety inspection system as a single, successful system and act accordingly in resuming trade. I foresee a non-disruptive trade relationship with Japan in the near future, and we will continue to work diligently until that is achieved.” Congressman Mike Conaway serves on the House Committee on Agriculture.
06.16.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted in favor of House Resolution 861, a resolution declaring that the United States will prevail in Iraq and establishing that Iraq is the central front in the Global War on Terror. The vote passed by a landslide vote of 256-153. “Our troops deserve to know that their representatives in Washington support them,” said Conaway, who returned from Iraq last week. ““The war in Iraq is inextricably linked to the ongoing Global War on Terror and we are winning the war. Had we not acted, tyranny and terrorism would rule in the Middle East and the hope of democracy and freedom would not exist.” The resolution states the strategic military and political goal for victory in Iraq. It states that the mission of the United States and its Coalition partners, after having removed Saddam Hussein and his regime from power, is to establish a sovereign, free, secure, and united Iraq that is at peace with its neighbors. The resolution also points out that the United States military, in coordination with Iraqi security forces, have scored impressive victories in Iraq including finding and killing of the terrorist leader Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. Conaway went on to say, “The death of Zarqawi and the formation of a new government in Iraq are proof of the progress that continues to be made everyday in Iraq. The choice for the American people is clear; don’t run in the face of danger, victory will be our exit strategy.” Congressman Conaway returned from Iraq last week. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and he is an Army veteran.
06.14.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted in favor of the $94.5 emergency supplemental conference report. The bill passed by a vote of 351-67. “Providing the necessary funding and resources for our troops is a responsibility that every member of Congress should live up to,” said Conaway, who returned from Iraq last weekend. “Last week’s killing of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi is evidence that the funding that Congress appropriates is being put to good use and it is making a difference in our efforts. Iraq is the central front in the War on Terror and this battle must be won.” The wartime supplemental conference report reflects a compromise that was struck between the House and the Senate. It appropriates $66 billion in funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and $20 billion for the Hurricane relief efforts. House negotiators managed to significantly lower the total amount of spending in the Senate version by nearly $17 billion. The bill also includes $1.9 billion to bolster border security. This includes $708 million to pay for the deployment of National Guard troops along the Southwest border. In addition, $1.2 billion is provided for the Department of Homeland Security to enhance border security which includes the hiring of 1000 new border agents, 4000 additional detention beds and various tactical and logistical support activities for the Secure Border Initiative. However, $3.5 billion in farm disaster relief was eliminated with the remaining $500 million going to the Gulf Region.
06.14.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, made the following statement in regards to the upcoming debate on the war in Iraq: “The upcoming debate over the war in Iraq is an opportunity for the House to address the hopes and concerns of the American people. The American people are going to be presented with a clear choice in this debate; we can maintain our resolve and continue to make progress or we can walk away from the Iraqi people when they need us most. The death of Zarqawi and the formation of a new government in Iraq are proof of the progress that continues to be made everyday in Iraq.” “I met with Iraqi military leaders for the first time last week and I have seen the rise of a growing and improving Iraqi security force. Ultimately, it is up to the Iraqis to determine their long-term fate, but we have a responsibility to help defend and protect their democracy as it takes hold. In this debate we will present the facts and let American people decide which direction they want to pursue in the central front in the War on Terror and I am looking forward to being a part of it.” Congressman Conaway returned from Iraq last week. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and he is an Army veteran.
06.08.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway, a member of the House Armed Services Committee and a member of the Congressional delegation that visited Iraq this past weekend, made the following statement regarding the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi: “Today’s announcement that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi was killed in Iraq is a very positive development in our effort to help the Iraqi people secure their country as Democracy takes hold. After visiting Iraq just last week, it is clear to me that our military men and women are focused on executing their mission in Iraq and I am confident that they will achieve victory on our behalf.” “With all that has been accomplished, it is important to remember that the Global War on Terror is bigger than one or two individuals. While some might prefer a timetable-driven withdrawal, even after being presented with another positive milestone, we must honor our commitment to democracy in the Middle East. Al-Zarqawi made a commitment to fight to the death in Iraq and I am proud that our soldiers helped him fulfill that commitment. His death proves once again that Iraq is the central front in the War on Terror and that is why we must make our stand here and now.” “We continue to see encouraging news coming out of Iraq. Earlier this morning, Prime Minister al-Maliki announced the assignment new cabinet appointments, with the naming of a new Minister of Defense, a new Minister of the Interior, and a new Minister of State for National Security. The new cabinet members will play vital roles as the Iraqi government continues to make progress on their way to a full-functioning democracy.” This past weekend, Congressman Conaway visited Iraq, where he met with the senior leadership of the Joint Special Operations Command. He is a member of the House Armed Services Committee.
06.08.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Broadcast Decency Act by a vote of 379 to 35. The legislation will increase fines ten fold for broadcasting indecent material. The Senate passed this bill last month, and it should be signed by President Bush in the upcoming weeks. “Although the radio and television airwaves are public property, the companies and stations who abuse the law should face a meaningful penalty,” said Conaway. “As a grandfather of six, I want to have a sense of security when they watch television. This legislation will help to control what does and does not go on the air for the good of our children.”Current fines brought against broadcasters by the Federal Communication Commission are limited to $32,500 per violation. The Broadcast Decency Enforcement Act would increase those fines to up to $325,000 per violation. Violations include broadcasting obscene, indecent or profane language during the hours of 6:00 am and 10:00 pm. Conaway went on to say, “It’s time for violators to receive a substantial economic penalty. I am looking forward to watching this bill become law.”
06.08.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act on a bipartisan vote of 238 to 178. The bill will decrease dependence on foreign energy sources by increasing the number of oil refineries in the United States. The passage of this legislation comes at a time when Americans are feeling the pain of high gas prices. "In spite of the ever-increasing demand for oil and related products, the United States has not built a refinery on our home soil in over 30 years," said Conaway, a CPA and former oil business executive. "It is a simple example of the law of supply and demand. Demand for oil is increasing and we need to increase our ability to refine crude oil domestically. This legislation will responsibly remove any red tape that prevents the construction of new refineries while taking into consideration any impacts on the environment. It will put our nation on the road to energy independence." The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act establishes a federal coordinator to bring together all U.S. government agencies responsible for issuing permits to help the permitting process move quickly. It also gives priority in scheduling coordination to the Environmental Protection Agency to ensure that environmental standards are met before refineries are built. Conaway went on to say, "The lack of U.S. refineries drives up prices at the pumps. This bipartisan bill will hopefully lead to the creation of additional refineries and lower energy prices, create jobs, and take serious steps toward energy conservation, efficiency and independence."
06.07.2006	Monday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) returned from his third trip to Iraq in the past year. Conaway, along with three other members of Congress, were invited to travel to Iraq on the invitation of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Representative Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. The four lawmakers met with two Generals in the Iraqi Army to discuss the status of the development of the Iraqi army as it prepares to take over full responsibility for the war against the insurgents. At the same time, the Members met with U.S. military leaders to hear their assessment of the progress the Iraqi army is making. “On a separate issue, Prime Minister al-Maliki made comments criticizing U.S. military treatment of Iraqi’s,” said Conaway. “The Prime Minister has a platform and a pulpit now that he may not have had in the past. With that platform comes the responsibility to be very careful and to choose your words very carefully. I also want to encourage al-Maliki to appoint the Ministries of Defense and Interior as soon as possible. A functioning Ministry of Defense is necessary in order for the Iraqi army to prepare to take over the battlespace against the insurgents and terrorists.” Congressman Conaway was in Iraq from June 2nd-5th. Rep. John Kline (R-MN), Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-NC), and Rep. Madeline Bordallo (D-Guam) also joined Congressman Conaway on the trip. This is his second trip to Iraq in 2006, as he went as part of a Congressional delegation that met with U.S. military commanders and troops in mid-April. In addition to meeting with top Iraqi and U.S. military officials, he had the opportunity to visit wounded soldiers from Texas, who are being treated very well at a military hospital in Germany. Conaway went on to say, "Iraqi generals are frustrated about the slow pace in filling the new Iraqi government’s final two Ministry posts. It is slowing the training of the Iraqi military and delaying the development of a full-functioning ministry of defense. After meeting with the Iraqi generals, I am confident that this will get settled quickly. We have accomplished a great deal in Iraq. The hard work and courage of the Iraqi people has put them well on their way to becoming a democracy.” Congressman Conaway is an Army Veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee. He serves on the Military Personnel and the Tactical Air and Land Subcommittees.
06.07.2006	Monday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) returned from his third trip to Iraq in the past year. Conaway, along with three other members of Congress, were invited to travel to Iraq on the invitation of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld and Representative Duncan Hunter (R-CA), Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. The four lawmakers met with two Generals in the Iraqi Army to discuss the status of the development of the Iraqi army as it prepares to take over full responsibility for the war against the insurgents. At the same time, the Members met with U.S. military leaders to hear their assessment of the progress the Iraqi army is making. “On a separate issue, Prime Minister al-Maliki made comments criticizing U.S. military treatment of Iraqi’s,” said Conaway. “The Prime Minister has a platform and a pulpit now that he may not have had in the past. With that platform comes the responsibility to be very careful and to choose your words very carefully. I also want to encourage al-Maliki to appoint the Ministries of Defense and Interior as soon as possible. A functioning Ministry of Defense is necessary in order for the Iraqi army to prepare to take over the battlespace against the insurgents and terrorists.” Congressman Conaway was in Iraq from June 2nd-5th. Rep. John Kline (R-MN), Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-NC), and Rep. Madeline Bordallo (D-Guam) also joined Congressman Conaway on the trip. This is his second trip to Iraq in 2006, as he went as part of a Congressional delegation that met with U.S. military commanders and troops in mid-April. In addition to meeting with top Iraqi and U.S. military officials, he had the opportunity to visit wounded soldiers from Texas, who are being treated very well at a military hospital in Germany. Conaway went on to say, "Iraqi generals are frustrated about the slow pace in filling the new Iraqi government’s final two Ministry posts. It is slowing the training of the Iraqi military and delaying the development of a full-functioning ministry of defense. After meeting with the Iraqi generals, I am confident that this will get settled quickly. We have accomplished a great deal in Iraq. The hard work and courage of the Iraqi people has put them well on their way to becoming a democracy.” Congressman Conaway is an Army Veteran and member of the House Armed Services Committee. He serves on the Military Personnel and the Tactical Air and Land Subcommittees.
05.31.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced the launch of a web-based farm bill feedback system on the House Committee on Agriculture website. The web-based form allows interested parties throughout the nation to provide the committee with feedback about both current and future farm policy.“Farm Bill policies directly impact the lives of America’s farmers and ranchers,” said Conaway, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “We had an excellent Farm Bill hearing in San Angelo last month. This feedback form will offer those who did not get to testify an opportunity to participate and convey their thoughts and concerns. By having a web-based feedback form, producers everywhere will have the opportunity to provide Congress with their thoughts about the future of federal farm policy.”The House Committee on Agriculture has conducted field hearings throughout the country to gather feedback from producers and review current farm policy in preparation for reauthorizing the 2002 Farm Bill. The 2002 Farm Bill expires September 2007 and Congressman Conaway expects the farm bill debate to begin in early 2007. To date, members of the Committee have participated in field hearings in various regions of the country including North Carolina, Alabama, California, Nebraska, Colorado and San Angelo, Texas. The form can be accessed directly at www.agriculture.house.gov/inside/feedbackform.html. The information submitted to the Committee via the website will not be part of the Congressional Record, but will be shared with Members of the House Committee on Agriculture.
05.30.2006	U.S. Congressman Pete Sessions (R-Dallas) joined U.S. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-Midand) to announce that late last week the House allocated increased funding for Customs and Border Patrol (CBP) Air interdiction, operations, maintenance and procurement as a provision of the fiscal year (FY) 2007 Homeland Security Appropriations Act. CBP Air operates an operation and maintenance facility in San Angelo, Texas, that plays an important role in protecting our Southern border by maintaining the operability of aircraft used in border protection operations. The San Angelo facility also works alongside the Border Patrol to provide an essential second line of defense in addition to facilities located in direct proximity to the border. “I believe that a vigorous, coordinated DHS air program is essential to our national security, and I will continue to work closely with other members to ensure that this multi-mission strategy be maintained,” said Sessions. “I applaud CBP Air’s efforts to both protect our border as part of a comprehensive strategy, as well as their efforts to achieve and maintain operational and cost efficiencies. “I am very pleased that this legislation details the expectation that while CBP Air must continue to secure our borders, this important function must not come at the expense of other critical homeland security missions,” Sessions said. “CBP Air is a national strategic asset and should be utilized accordingly.” “The CBP Air interdiction facility in San Angelo is a vital component to defending our Homeland,” said Congressman Mike Conaway, who represents San Angelo. “This air interdiction program not only serves as our second line of defense against illegal air entrants, it is also important to San Angelo’s local economy. Establishing partnerships between the federal government and our local communities is essential to the Homeland Security portion of comprehensive reform.” In both 2004 and 2005, Sessions visited San Angelo to witness first-hand how our air assets are used to secure our borders and to prevent illegal drugs from entering our country. Since then, Sessions has supported the balanced, multi-mission AMO strategy of pushing out the border to combat illegal immigration, narcotics trafficking, and smuggling of other illegal cargoes.
05.25.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) made the following statement regarding passage of H.R. 5429, the American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act, which will open a small portion of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) to energy production: “The American people want legislative action that will produce long-term results. Today’s vote proved that a majority of House members are ready and willing to act when it comes to combating the problem of high energy costs. This is about the law of supply and demand. By increasing oil supply here in the U.S., we can impact rising energy costs in the long-run and decrease our dependency on foreign sources of energy. The decision to veto ANWR legislation in 1995 has unfortunately come back to haunt us. Had the federal government acted 11 years ago, the cost of energy might not be so high. We must learn from the mistakes of the past and seize this opportunity by enacting sound, long-term energy policy that will benefit all Americans.” Congressman Conaway is a CPA and a former small business oil executive from Midland, Texas.
05.24.2006	On Wednesday, May 23, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the FY07 Agriculture Appropriations bill. The bill was passed by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 378 to 46, with Congressman Conaway (R-TX) voting in favor of the bill. “After meeting with a number of farmers and ranchers at the Farm Bill hearing in San Angelo, it is clear that our current policies are working and they need to be funded at the appropriate levels,” said Conaway. “We must make sure that our farmers and ranchers have an adequate safety net and the proper resources necessary to maintain the world’s most affordable and abundant food and fiber supply.” The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY07 provide $18.4 billion in total discretionary funding. This year’s Agriculture spending bill marks a decrease of $96 million below the FY06 enacted level. Specifically, the bill protects human health and safety, fulfills commitments to important food and nutrition programs, and supports farmers, ranchers, and rural America. This year, over fifty amendments were offered. One amendment would eliminate the Market Access Program (MAP). MAP serves as a “Buy American” program by promoting American-grown and produced agricultural products. MAP is administered on a cost-share basis, with American farmers and ranchers required to contribute up to 50 percent of the program’s costs. Congressman Conaway voted with a majority of lawmakers to continue funding the program. Conaway went on to say, “Neither Appropriations bills or the budget process are the proper venue for structural changes to the 2002 farm bill as some of my colleagues proposed. I have and will continue to actively oppose any and all efforts to alter the structure or mechanics of the 2002 Farm Bill.” Congressman Conaway serves on the House Committee on Agriculture.
05.24.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway, a proponent of a non-amnesty temporary worker program, made the following statement regarding today’s Armed Services Committee hearing on the National Guard’s Border Security mission: “The Bush Administration’s plan to dispatch the National Guard to the southwest border is a temporary, but necessary move. We must secure our borders now as Congress works to find a long-term solution to the problem of illegal immigration. The federal government must secure the border in a way that enables our border security agents to interdict every individual that tries to cross our border illegally. This can only be done by increasing the number of border security agents and by changing the way that people enter the country legally.” “A non-amnesty temporary worker program will help meet our security needs while acknowledging the important contribution that immigrants make to our economy. As the Senate draws closer to passing a comprehensive immigration reform bill, I am hopeful that some of my colleagues will join in supporting a measure that truly addresses this problem. In the meantime, I am confident that the National Guard will execute its mission as we continue to train and recruit thousands or new border agents.” Today’s House Armed Services Committee hearing focused on issues such as deployment capabilities as well as issues relating to weapons, training and equipment. The hearing also included testimony from the following: Asst. Sec of Defense for Homeland Defense Paul McHale Lieutenant General Steven Blum, Dir, National Guard Bureau Major General Richard Rowe, Director of Operations, NORTHCOM (Northern Command) David Aguilar, Chief, Border Patrol
05.23.2006	Last night, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) hosted a Tele-Town Hall Meeting with constituents from the Permian Basin. The call took place at 7:30 p.m. CST time and lasted approximately one hour. “I am always looking for new ways to communicate with constituents, even when I am here in Washington,” said Conaway. “It is important for me to hear the thoughts and concerns of voters so that I can better represent them in Congress. The Tele-Town Hall allows me to reach constituents all over District 11 with the punch of a few buttons.”Over 3,500 constituents participated in the Tele-Town Hall. Participants took advantage of the interactive system by asking a wide-range of questions on topics such as immigration reform, Social Security, Medicare and federal spending. Voters from Midland, Odessa and Snyder participated in the first of what he plans to be many more Tele-Town Halls.The Tele-Town hall is an interactive system that automatically connects voters with their congressman through their telephone. A phone call is automatically generated and connected to a constituent universe by making thousands of phone calls per minute. Recipients of the phone call are encouraged to join the conversation through a recorded message from Congressman Conaway. By simply pressing the number 1 on the keypad, an individual is instantly connected and placed into a live conference call with the Congressman. This was the first Tele-Town Hall hosted by Congressman Conaway. He has held numerous traditional town hall meetings all over District 11 since January 2005.
05.18.2006	Early this morning, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Budget Committee, voted in favor of the FY 07 Budget Resolution. The resolution passed by a vote of 218 to 210. “By passing the House budget resolution, we are taking important steps on the long road to fiscal responsibility,” said Conaway, a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee. “Although, I would have favored deeper reductions in spending, this budget addresses the need to spend more responsibly and reduce the deficit.” The total amount of authorized spending in this year’s budget is $2.732 trillion for FY 2007, including $1.486 trillion (a 3.8% increase) in mandatory spending. The resolution holds non-security spending to a near freeze and it also reduces mandatory spending over the next five years by $6.7 billion. The budget keeps Congress’ effort on track to cut the deficit in half by FY 2009. The FY 07 budget also includes a new reserve fund of $6.45 billion to better budget for natural disaster emergencies. Prior to passage of the Budget Resolution, Congressman Conaway, a member of the conservative Republican Study Committee, voted in favor of the Hensarling Amendment, an alternative budget proposal that would have authorized deeper spending reductions in order to further control spending. However, the amendment was defeated. Conaway went on to say, “The FY 07 budget furthers our plan to support our growing economy, strengthen our nation’s most critical programs, reform the federal government, and spend the taxpayers’ dollars wisely. Slowing the growth of government spending is never easy, but we have made some tough choices and we are making progress.”
05.18.2006	As gas prices continue to remain high, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced an amendment to the FY07 Department of Interior appropriations bill that would eliminate three sections from the bill that currently restrict deep sea oil and gas exploration on the Outer Continental Shelf. “For too long, critics have been saying that Congress has not done enough to lower gas prices and reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy,” said Conaway, a former small business executive in the oil and gas industry. “By ending the ban on deep sea energy exploration, Congress can provide a real solution by increasing our energy supply and lowering costs in the long-run.” The amendment was withdrawn after an agreement was made to work toward comprehensive legislation to open the Outer Continental Shelf to exploration. A comprehensive bill would give states greater control over their coastal interests, while simultaneously opening up vast energy reserves and reducing America’s dependence on foreign sources of energy. Environmental risks associated with OCS development are almost negligible because of advances in technology – the recent hurricanes led to no major spills. In the last 25 years, there has not been a major deep sea oil spill. Conaway went on to say, “I am confident that we will have a comprehensive energy package in the near future that is respectful of states rights and addresses our energy needs. It is time for Congress to respect the individual rights of the states, and allow them to decide whether or not deep sea energy exploration is in their best interest.” Almost 90 percent of the deep offshore acreage off the lower 48 states is “off limits” to energy development. According to conservative estimates, there are about 288 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 59 billion barrels of oil yet to be discovered on the OCS off the lower 48 states (NOT including Alaska). This is enough oil to maintain current oil production for 105 years and current natural gas production for 71 years.
05.17.2006	With tax relief legislation set to expire, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) was on-hand at the White House to participate in the Tax Reconciliation bill signing ceremony. President Bush signed the bill into law today at 1:30 p.m. EST. “I was honored to be in attendance to watch President Bush sign this tax relief extension into law,” said Conaway, a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee. “There is a direct correlation between the passage of the tax relief in 2003 and the exceptional economic growth we are currently experiencing. Republicans in Congress have proven their continued commitment to free-market principles by making this new law possible. As a result, our economy has generated over 5.2 million new jobs.” Approximately 24 million families benefited from the 2003 tax relief measures by an average of almost $950. Seven million of those beneficiaries were senior citizens whose average benefit was $1,231. The Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005 extends current tax policy provisions that essentially eliminated the double taxation of dividends and significantly reduced taxes on capital gains. The rate on capital gains was lowered to 15 percent from 20 percent. Conaway went on to say, “The government doesn’t create jobs, individuals do. It is the government’s job to create an environment where businesses have an opportunity to flourish, grow and create jobs. This Congress has proven its continued commitment to free-market principles by making this new law possible.” The bill also slows the expansion of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), a stealth income tax that has the potential to affect up to 35 million taxpayers. The legislation exempts the first $62,550 of a household’s income from the alternative minimum tax.
05.17.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a former small business executive in the oil and natural gas industry, introduced legislation that will establish an energy conservation public-service campaign aimed at lowering the rising demand of gasoline in the near future. “So far the recent debate about how to tackle the issue of rising gas prices has consisted of unrealistic solutions and misinformation,” said Conaway, a CPA. “This awareness campaign will be aimed at reducing the overall demand for gasoline by simply informing drivers of how they can cut down on fuel consumption. The problem of high gas prices requires both long-term and short-term solutions. This campaign is one way we can tackle the problem in the near future.” The Fuel Consumption Education Act will create a public-private partnership between the Department of Energy and industry groups, including the automotive, gasoline refining, and oil sectors to create a public education campaign that provides information to U.S. drivers about IMMEDIATE measures that may be taken to conserve fuel. The bill authorizes the appropriation of $10 million to the Department of Energy. This public information campaign will reach a wide audience and include television, print, and internet advertising. Conaway went on to say, “Using mass media to influence energy consumption behavior has been proven to work in states with rising energy costs. Simple economics tells us that by lowering demand, we can effectively combat rising gas prices. There is no rifle-shot solution to solving this problem in the short-term. That is why Congress must advocate long-term legislative solutions that include increasing supply through deep-sea and ANWR exploration along with researching alternative sources of energy.” In January 2001, rapidly increasing energy demand led to rolling blackouts in California. As part of an effort to combat rising energy costs, a public-private conservation campaign was undertaken to help reduce demand. Over the course of the year, average Californians reduced peak demand by 89 percent and total consumption by 6.7 percent.
05.16.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a proponent of a comprehensive solution to the problem of illegal immigration, made the following statement in response to President Bush’s address to the nation: “President Bush’s comprehensive approach to reforming our immigration system meets America’s border and interior security needs while providing a rational, non-amnesty temporary worker program. I have seen the imminent problems on our border and it is obvious that the current situation is not sustainable. Our immigration system is broken and it is desperately in need of an overhaul. The National Guard will provide a supportive, temporary, non-law enforcement role in securing the border and then it will be up to us in Congress to develop a long-term solution.” “I am hopeful that this deployment will soften opposition from ‘enforcement only’ advocates in Congress and encourage them to work toward a comprehensive solution. As the Senate resumes debate on immigration legislation, I encourage them to include a non-amnesty temporary worker program that is citizenship neutral. Meaningful immigration reform must consist of much more than just added boots on the ground, taller fences and improved technology. It will require changing how people can enter the country legally. President Bush has stood firm in his belief that we must enforce the rule of law in this country and do so in a manner that is compassionate and respectful of human dignity. A solution can be reached, but we must set aside our prejudices, biases and fears in order to do so.”
05.16.2006	On Saturday, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) announced the winners of the Congressional Art Competition at Angelo State University in San Angelo. Midlander Ruston Hicks came in first place for his watercolor painting entitled, “The Refinery”. Hicks is a senior at Robert E. Lee High School in Midland. “The level of talent in this year’s Congressional Art Competition was very impressive. We had 29 entries from high schools across District 11, and the work that these students put forward was extraordinary,” said Conaway. “I would like to congratulate Ruston on winning the art competition. His work will hang inside the Capitol for members of Congress and thousands of visitors to see.” Hicks’ painting will be sent to Washington, DC to be hung in the Cannon Tunnel, a walkway inside the U.S. Capitol Building. This walkway is used by Members of Congress, congressional staff, and the general public as they enter the Capitol. The annual exhibit represents the combined efforts of Members of Congress, students, and teachers who encourage their students to enter the competition. The winning art entry from each District is displayed in the Capitol for one year. The panel of judges consisted of Margaret Mallard, Donna Swartz and Velma Jo McCully, all of San Angelo. Hicks will receive complimentary framing for his entry from Michael’s Arts and Crafts in Midland. He will also receive three complimentary airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to attend the opening of the exhibit in Washington, DC, as well as two nights free lodging. Second place was awarded to Cody Thomas, a student at San Angelo Central High school for his colored-pencil drawing. Third place went to Heather Wylie from Cornerstone Christian School in San Angelo for her acrylic painting entitled, “Orange Bayou”. Fourth place went to Tara King of Ballinger High School, and the Honorable Mention went to Kallie White of Llano High School. The 2nd through Honorable Mention place winners will have their artwork hung in one of Congressman Conaway’s district offices for the next year.
05.11.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005. The legislation will extend tax relief measures that were passed in 2003, but were set to expire. “Our economy has generated over 5.2 million new jobs since the enactment of the 2003 tax relief legislation,” said Congressman Mike Conaway, a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee. “Unemployment is low and businesses continue to hire new employees and expand capacity. There is a direct correlation between the passage of the tax relief in 2003 and the exceptional economic growth we are currently experiencing.” Approximately 24 million families benefited from the 2003 tax relief measures by an average of almost $950. Seven million of those beneficiaries were senior citizens whose average benefit was $1,231. The Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005 extends current tax policy provisions that essentially eliminated the double taxation of dividends and significantly reduced taxes on capital gains. The rate on capital gains was lowered to 15 percent from 20 percent. The bill also slows the expansion of the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT), a stealth income tax that is affecting 15 million middle class taxpayers that itemize deductions on their tax returns. The legislation exempts the first $62,550 of a household’s income from the alternative minimum tax. Without this legislation, the number of taxpayers that will owe the AMT will potentially jump from 2.6 million to 35.6 million, more than a third of all taxpayers, by 2010. Additional provisions in the bill will renew the research tax credit for over 16,000 employers in the United States. Other deductions include a renewal of a work opportunity tax credit for companies that hire welfare recipients and a tax deduction for teachers who buy their own classroom supplies. Conaway went on to say, “The government doesn’t create jobs, individuals do. It is the government’s job to create an environment where businesses have an opportunity to flourish, grow and create jobs. This Congress has proven its continued commitment to free-market principles by casting its vote today for lower taxes.”
05.11.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the National Defense Reauthorization Act of 2006 (H.R. 5122) by a vote of 396 to 31. This legislation authorizes $512.9 billion for the Department of Defense and the national security programs of the Department of Energy in the 2006 fiscal year. “Taking care of our men and women in uniform remains a top priority, particularly as we continue our efforts to win the Global War on Terror,” said Conaway, a member of the House Armed Services Committee. “In this bill, we provide our troops with the best weaponry, equipment, and training possible. The Reauthorization plan will improve our military’s capabilities to accomplish our missions in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the Global War on Terror.” The legislation authorizes an additional $50 billion in supplemental funding for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. It also covers operational costs, personnel expenses and the procurement of new equipment. The bill includes a well-deserved pay raise for members of the armed forces as well as an increase of $390 million for continued production of enhanced body armor and up-armored Humvees, improvised explosive device (IED) jammers, and Humvee IED protection kits. Conaway went on to say, “We must continue to support our troops that are fighting for freedom overseas. Authorizing the necessary funds that are vital to their success and protection is an essential component of that support. I am proud that this bill passed with such an overwhelming bipartisan vote.” For more information on the bill, please visit http://www.house.gov/hasc.
05.09.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), along with some of his colleagues from the House Committee on Agriculture, participated in the Texas Farm Bill hearing in San Angelo. “Today’s hearing provided excellent first-hand testimony on how our federal policies are affecting individual businesses in the agriculture industry,” said Conaway, a member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “I am thankful to the many Texas producers who took the time to come and attend the Farm Bill hearing. Their insight is greatly appreciated. It is imperative that we listen to the thoughts and concerns of industry experts and producers as Congress draws closer to drafting the 2007 Farm Bill.” The Farm Bill hearing took place at Angelo State University in San Angelo. Congressman Conaway was joined at the hearing by members of the House Committee on Agriculture, including Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). Members of the committee heard testimony from witnesses representing the diverse agriculture interests of Texas. “I would like to thank Congressman Conaway for working so hard to bring the Farm Bill hearing to San Angelo. His work on the House Agriculture Committee is greatly appreciated here in Texas,” said Richard Pelzel, President of the Southern Rolling Plains Cotton Growers Association. “Congressman Conaway knows that sound federal ag policy is not only good for producers, but for consumers as well. It is good to know that we have a representative in Congress that is looking out for the interests of Texas’ farmers and ranchers.” The 2002 Farm Bill included ten separate titles: commodity programs, conservation, trade, nutrition programs, credit, rural development, research, forestry, energy and a miscellaneous category that included marketing issues, biotechnology, etc.
05.06.2006	Today, the Bureau of Labor Statistics today announced that the economy created 138,000 new jobs in April. The announcement marks 32 consecutive months of uninterrupted job growth. “Pro-growth policies and lower taxes have led to one of the longest stretches of economic growth in recent history,” said Conaway, a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee. “Today, businesses are expanding and more Americans are joining the workforce than ever before. The economy is running at near full-employment and the unemployment rate continues to remain low.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics also announced that the unemployment rate for April was unchanged at 4.7 percent, lower than the average of the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. The economy has created approximately 5.2 million jobs since August 2003. Conaway went on to say, “We must continue to keep taxes lower for working Americans by making their tax relief permanent. Our commitment to common-sense economic policies has encouraged expansion and promoted prosperity. Raising taxes at this juncture could potentially derail our recent economic progress.” Looking at the Facts: 32 consecutive months of job growth; 2.1 million jobs created over the past 12 months; Robust GDP growth of 4.8 percent for the first quarter; and Increases in consumer confidence, consumer spending, and construction spending. The full report can be accessed at www.bls.gov.
05.04.2006	U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) wants to urge seniors in District 11 to sign up for the new Medicare Prescription Drug Plan by the May 15th deadline. “We have had incredible success in enrolling seniors in the new Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. More than 30 million people have enrolled in the new plan nationwide, and 82% of seniors in District 11 who are eligible have enrolled,” said Conaway. “Our seniors deserve access to affordable health care and prescription drugs, and I want to make sure that every senior is aware of the different options that are available. Seniors need to sign up before the May 15th deadline in order to avoid penalty.” If you do not enroll by May 15, the premium cost will go up at least 1% per month for every month that is waited to join. Seniors will have to pay this penalty as long as they have Medicare prescription drug coverage. To apply and get more information on payment assistance, call Social Security at 1-800-722-1213. Almost 1 in 3 people with Medicare will qualify for extra help and Medicare will pay for almost all prescription drug costs. Also, if you have any questions or need help please call my office at 1-866-882-3811 or your local Area Agency on Aging. Automatically connect to the AAA in your area by calling 1-800-252-9240. For more information, please visit www.medicare.gov.
04.26.2006	Today U.S. Rep. Mike Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act that is being debated in the Senate. The Senate version of the bill currently includes almost $4 billion in agriculture disaster relief spending. “I have been and will continue to be extremely supportive of disaster relief that takes into consideration ALL natural disasters. I have also begun working with my Texas counterparts and other friends in agriculture to secure disaster relief funds for agriculture across the state and nation. I am supportive of the Senate efforts to include disaster assistance thus far. I will be working very hard with other members to ensure that disaster relief extending beyond Gulf-Coast states WILL be included in the measure once it comes out of Conference and to the floor for a final vote on passage.” “I am respectful of the fact that hurricane assistance has been provided, but I feel strongly that that we simply cannot forget those suffering from equally devastating natural disasters such as fire and drought. Further action must be taken. I will continue to offer my support and effort for proper and responsible means to assist producers who are suffering from severe financial losses as a result of unpredictable adverse weather conditions. Rural America needs our help and in return will continue to provide all Americans with the safest, most abundant, and affordable food supply in the world.” The Senate version of the bill includes, among other things, assistance for crop and quality loss, 30% of the Direct Payment producers received under the 2002 farm bill along with language inserted by Texas Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison. The Senator’s amendment would provide $611 million for wildfire recovery assistance for farmers and ranchers who have experienced losses from the 2006 wildfires. In mid-February Rep. Conaway and 24 other Members of the U.S. House of Representatives from both the Texas and Oklahoma delegations sent a letter to the House Leadership as well as the Chairman of the Appropriations Committee stressing the need for comprehensive disaster assistance. The members are seeking a relief package that extends across the country and takes into account all natural disasters, not simply limited to hurricane disaster assistance. Representative Conaway is a Member of the House Committee on Agriculture and serves on the Subcommittee for Livestock and Horticulture as well as the Subcommittee for General Farm Commodities and Risk Management.
04.26.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, listened to the testimony of industry experts and producers as they reviewed the Federal Crop Insurance Program. “The Federal Crop Insurance Program is a critical component of the safety net that America’s farmers need and deserve,” said Conaway. “This program assists farmers in their risk-management assessments and planning operations so that they are protected against unforeseen crop losses. Because of the crop insurance program, farmers now have a choice of what type of affordable protection best protects their assets and income.” The hearing took place under the jurisdiction of the House Subcommittee on General Commodities and Risk Management. Federal crop insurance is authorized under the Federal Crop Insurance Act and is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Risk Management Agency. Coverage is made available through various insurance plans that are selected by farmers based on crop yield and price. In 2005, over 100 agriculture commodities were covered under the Federal Crop Insurance Program. Since the previous modification of the program in 2000, federal assistance has averaged approximately $3 billion per year.
04.25.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway, a former small business executive in the oil and gas industry, released the following statement on the recent spike in gas prices and calls for a windfall profits tax: “As rising gas prices continue to affect the pocket books of America’s families, it is clear that substantive action needs to be taken. There is a great hypocrisy in America’s national energy policy. As long as politicians continue to demagogue and oppose legislation that addresses the long-term problem of rising energy costs, we will continue to fail the American people. A so-called “windfall profits tax” is in effect an anti-energy tax that will only be passed on to consumers. It is a failed policy of the past that would hurt consumers with even higher costs and stifle production.” “It is time for Congress to look at the facts. The law of supply and demand is inflicting hardship on many, because some in Congress refuse to allow for domestic and deep sea energy exploration that would increase supply and reduce cost. Opposing legislation that would open up ANWR, expand refinery capacity, reduce costly fuel regulation and allow for deep sea extraction has had adverse affects on real people and our economy. These are long-term issues that could have made a difference today had we avoided political posturing and addressed them years ago.”
04.18.2006	This past weekend, Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX) returned from his second trip to Iraq in the past year. He traveled to Iraq as part of a Congressional delegation that met with the military commanders and troops fighting in Iraq. "It was good to meet with our military leadership and our troops on the ground," said Conaway who serves on the House Armed Services Committee. "Our soldiers are committed to the cause of establishing freedom and democracy in the heart of the Middle East. As a member of Congress, it is my responsibility to see first-hand how our military effort is progressing and to meet and show support for our troops." Congressman Conaway was in Iraq from April 10th - 14th. Since the Congressman's previous visit last July, the Iraqi people have held two successful elections and increased their security forces. During that time they voted to adopt a constitution and to elect their representatives in Parliament. At this time, Iraq has more than 250,000 trained security forces members, many of which are now leading the fight. Conaway went on to say, "Real progress is being made, and although our successes are not always reported in the mainstream media, we have accomplished a great deal in Iraq. Iraq is the central front in the Global War on Terror and we must not lose our nerve just as democracy is beginning to take hold. With three elections behind us, it is now up to the elected representatives of Iraq to move forward and begin doing the work that they were elected to do. I urge them to move forward." Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. He serves on the Military Personnel and the Tactical Air and Land Subcommittees. He is also an Army Veteran. Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. He serves on the Military Personnel and the Tactical Air and Land Subcommittees. He is also an Army Veteran.
04.05.2006	Yesterday, nineteen Members of Congress signed and sent a letter of bi-partisan support for the boll weevil eradication program funding that was circulated by U.S. Representatives Conaway and Neugebauer, both Members of the House Agriculture Committee. The letter was delivered to the Appropriations Subcommittee on Agriculture, which is chaired by Rep. Henry Bonilla of Texas. “The Boll Weevil Eradication Program has been a successful, nationally coordinated effort and a perfect example of what a partnership between the Federal Government and producers should consist of,” said Conaway. “Federal investment in agriculture is wise policy and this program provides evidence of that.” The letter voiced support from members for funding in the amount $38.2 million for Animal Plant Health Inspection Services (APHIS) to provide a Federal cost share of approximately 30% to active boll weevil eradication programs. Eradication programs are currently underway on approximately 9.9 million acres in Mississippi, Tennessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Texas, Oklahoma, and New Mexico. Approximately 81 percent of the cotton acres in the U.S. are now free of the boll weevil. The requested $38.2 million is $1.7 million less than requested in FY06, and the dollar amount will continue to decrease each year as the program reaches its completion. Below is a list of Congressional Representatives who signed on to the letter: Arkansas: Rep. John Boozman, Rep. Mike Ross, Rep. Vic Snyder Mississippi: Rep. Chip Pickering New Mexico: Rep. Steve Pearce Oklahoma: Rep. Tom Cole, Rep. Frank Lucas Tennessee: Rep. Marsha Blackburn, Rep. Harold Ford, Rep. John Tanner Texas: Rep. Mike Conaway, Rep. Henry Cuellar , Rep. Ralph Hall, Rep. Ruben Hinojosa, Rep. Randy Neugebauer, Rep. Solomon Ortiz, Rep. Ron Paul, Rep. Silvestre Reyes, Rep. Mac Thornberry
04.04.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement regarding the retirement of Tom DeLay: "Tom DeLay has had a distinguished career in Congress and his leadership will be greatly missed. I am saddened to hear that he will not be seeking re-election, but once again, he has chosen to put his own aspirations aside for the sake of others. Tom DeLay has been the driving force behind the incredible success of the conservative movement and I am honored to have served with him in Congress. “While some political opponents and many in the mainstream media will attempt to exploit his decision, casting guilt by association is irresponsible and a breach of our fundamental sense of right and wrong. The loss of Tom DeLay’s public service to our country will be felt and it is a sad day for Texas. I wish Tom DeLay the best in all of his future endeavors and I have great confidence that he will be successful in whatever he seeks to accomplish."
04.04.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), announced the dates and locations for his Medicare Prescription Drug tour. The events have been scheduled in five different locations in order to better serve all 36 counties of the 11th District of Texas. “We have had incredible success in enrolling seniors into the Medicare Prescription Drug plan,” said Conaway. “Our seniors deserve access to affordable health care and prescription drugs. Transitioning into the new plan is a complex process and that is why there should be help for our seniors along the way. As the final enrollment draws closer, I plan to do everything I can to ensure that they have access to the help they need in picking the plan that is right for them.” As of March, 2006, the number of beneficiaries in District 11 with prescription drug coverage has climbed to 74 percent, the second-highest amount in Texas. The last day to join the program without penalty is May 15. Seniors should bring the names and dosages of their prescriptions, their Medicare card and monthly income information. Workshops are scheduled to take place in Midland, Odessa, San Angelo, Brownwood and Burnet. In addition to Congressman Conaway, officials from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will be on-hand to answer questions, as well as local officials from the Social Security Administration. Dates, times, and locations are listed below: Hill Country Monday, April 17th Burnet Community Center 401 East Jackson St. Burnet, Texas 10:00am Pecan Valley Tuesday, April 18th Brownwood Regional Hospital 1501 Burnet Brownwood, Texas 10:00 am Concho Valley Tuesday, April 18th Shannon Women’s and Children’s Center 201 East Harris Ave San Angelo, Texas 3:00pm Odessa Area Wednesday, April 19th Globe Theater 2308 Shakespeare Rd. Odessa, Texas 10:00am Midland Area Thursday, April 20th Manor Park Barney Greathouse Activity Building 2208 N. Loop 250 West Midland, Texas 10am Enter through the West Gate on Loop 250
03.30.2006	Late last night, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), voted with a majority of the House Budget Committee to pass the Budget Resolution and move it the floor for a vote. A vote in the House is expected sometime next week. “By passing the House budget resolution, we are taking important steps on the long road to fiscal responsibility,” said Conaway, a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee. “Although, I would have favored deeper reductions in spending, this budget addresses the need to spend more responsibly and reduce the deficit. Slowing the growth of government spending is never easy, but we have made some tough choices and we are making progress.” The resolution was passed in committee by a party-line vote. Once the budget is passed in the House, it will go to a Conference Committee where a final version will be worked out between the House and the Senate. The Senate passed its budget resolution earlier this month. The House budget resolution will reduce the deficit, while properly funding the Homeland Security and Defense needs to fight and win the Global War on Terror. The total amount of authorized spending in this year’s budget is $2.732 trillion for FY 2007, including $1.486 trillion (a 3.8% increase) in mandatory spending. The resolution holds non-security spending to a near freeze and it also reduces mandatory spending over the next five years by $6.7 billion. The budget keeps Congress’ effort on track to cut the deficit in half by FY 2009.
03.30.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following statement on the FY 2007 budget resolution and its impact on the Agriculture industry: “The FY 2007 House budget preserves the framework and mechanics of the 2002 Farm Bill through continued funding and the preservation of current programs. I support the 2002 Farm Bill in its current form and I will continue to do what I can to ensure that it remains unaltered through its expiration in 2007. Providing a safety net for our farmers and ranchers is good public policy for our economy and I will continue to work to ensure that that the voices of America’s producers are heard in Washington.” The FY 2007 budget includes $6.753 billion in deficit reduction instructions for FY2007-2011. The agriculture portion of the reductions total $55 million, which is less than 1% of the total budget reconciliation package. Those reductions include a $51 million reduction in subsidies to the Export Credit Guarantee Program. The policy would lift the 1% fee cap that would in turn make the United States WTO-compliant after the ruling of the Brazil Cotton case. The deficit reduction instructions also include $4 million through savings in food stamp fraud. The Senate-passed budget includes $3.3 billion in entitlement savings.
03.30.2006	Today, Congressman K. Michael Conaway (TX-11) released the following statement regarding an announcement, made earlier today by U.S. Trade Representative Rob Portman that the United States requested WTO dispute settlement consultations with China due to its unfair treatment of U.S. auto parts. “I applaud U.S. Trade Representative Portman for his continued efforts to ensure that the commitments of our global trading partners are honored and enforced. There is, and must be persistent efforts to enforce the rules and obligations made by all members of the WTO. I support any and all efforts to continue leveling the playing field for those that have a stake in international trade.” China's taxes on imported auto parts discourage automobile manufacturers in China from using imported auto parts in the assembly of vehicles. China's WTO commitments limit its tariffs on imported auto parts to rates that are significantly below China's tariffs on finished vehicles. However, China recently implemented regulations that impose a tax on imported auto parts equal to the tariff on complete automobiles, if the final assembled vehicle fails to meet certain local content requirements. Effectively, China's regulations discriminate against U.S. and third country auto parts in favor of Chinese-manufactured parts.
03.30.2006	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the College Access and Opportunity Act (H.R. 609). The bill will open the door for thousands of American students to take advantage of our nation’s higher education system. The bill will strengthen student aid, student access, minority serving institutions, and provide year-round Pell Grant funding for students. “Forty years ago, the Higher Education Act was established to encourage college access for low-and middle-income students. Today I had the opportunity to support a bill that will further that legacy,” said Conaway. “This plan will expand college access, strengthen accountability in higher education, and bring additional light into the discussion about college affordability.” By providing this funding, coursework will be accelerated and students will be encouraged to complete their studies in a timely fashion. The bill protects low-income and non-traditional students by ensuring student aid is not jeopardized by burdensome rules and regulations. It ensures fair recognition for institutions of higher education and allows consumers to shop for the best deals on consolidation loans by eliminating the unnecessary red tape. It also strengthens math, science and critical foreign language programs through the formation of an International Education Advisory Board. The bill also incorporates language in support of an “Academic Bill of Rights”. This “sense of the Congress” expresses support for the protection of students against discrimination, as well as to encourage free speech and expression. Colleges and Universities should be a place for the free exchange of ideas, and students should not face discrimination based on their beliefs or political perspective. Conaway went on to say, “This bill is a good balance between protecting free speech and avoiding federal government intrusion into institutional freedoms and liberties. Students should not be discriminated against based on their conservative political perspective or religious beliefs, and thus it is critical to not do so if we expect them to receive a full and rigorous education. We need to encourage student speech and expression, and this legislation is a key ingredient in doing so.” The College Access and Opportunity Act includes a host of reforms that will protect the students, parents and teachers by: Strengthening Pell Grants, student aid, student access, and minority serving institutions. Reducing red tape for students and graduates. Removing barriers for non-traditional students. Empowering consumers through transparency in college costs and accreditation. Safeguarding the privacy of students. Promoting merit-based pay for teachers. Increasing public access to information about colleges and universities. Repealing duplicative, expired, and/or unnecessary programs. Removing barriers that prevent home-schooled students from attending college. Demanding accountability in federal college access programs. Encouraging students to make progress toward degree completion. Underscoring the importance of international education and foreign language studies.
03.30.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, announced that a Farm Bill hearing will take place in San Angelo, Texas on May 9th at 8:30 am. “I am pleased to announce that Texas will have a direct voice in negotiating the 2007 Farm Bill,” said Conaway. “San Angelo is the perfect place for those ideas and concerns to be heard as we look to advance the interests of American Agriculture. Texas’ farmers and ranchers deserve a place at the table when comes to the drafting of federal agriculture policy. It is important to receive knowledge and input from those who are affected first-hand by the policies crafted by their elected representatives.” The hearing is set to take place on Tuesday, May 9th at Angelo State University following a May 8th hearing in Greeley, Colorado. Witness lists will be released in following weeks. Congressman Conaway will be joined by members of the House Committee on Agriculture, including Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). Members attending the hearing will hear the testimony of witnesses representing the diverse agricultural interests of Texas. “Congressman Conaway has worked closely with the House Agriculture Committee to bring this farm bill hearing to San Angelo,” said Chairman Bob Goodlatte. “He serves as an excellent example of what a leader in Agriculture should be, by always putting farmers and ranchers first. He keeps the Committee apprised of issues facing Texas producers. As Chairman of the Agriculture Committee, I am proud to have Congressman Conaway as a member of my team.” The Full Committee has already held four field hearings across the nation in North Carolina, Alabama, California, and Nebraska. The Committee plans to continue traveling the country, hearing from producers across the United States in the coming months leading up to the reauthorization of the Farm Bill in 2007. The 2002 Farm Bill included ten separate titles: commodity programs, conservation, trade, nutrition programs, credit, rural development, research, forestry, energy and a miscellaneous category that included marketing issues, biotechnology, etc.
03.29.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) attended a field hearing in Valdosta, Georgia along with 10 other members of the House Agriculture Subcommittee on General Farm Commodities to listen to testimony and review various aspects of the 2002 Farm Bill. “As a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, it is my responsibility to hear from America’s producers and better understand how our policies affect them first-hand, said Conaway. “ Providing a safety net for our farmers is essential to maintaining the world’s strongest and safest food supply. I will continue to here from members of the Agriculture community so that I can voice their concerns as the 2007 Farm Bill draws closer.” In addition to Congressman Conaway, nine other subcommittee members attended today’s hearing and heard from a panel of witnesses about a variety of farm policy issues including commodity programs, export markets, market access, and crop insurance. Other members in attendance included, Chairman Jerry Moran, R-KS, Jack Kingston, R-GA, Randy Neugebauer, R-TX, Subcommittee Ranking Minority Member Bob Etheridge, D-NC, David Scott, D-GA, Jim Marshall, D-GA, John Barrow, D-GA, Rick Larsen, D-WA and Sanford D. Bishop, Jr., D-GA, also attended on behalf of their constituents. Agriculture is Georgia’s largest industry, contributing over $5.1 billion annually in cash receipts to the state’s economy. Georgia ranks first in the nation in the production of poultry and eggs and peanuts and ranks second in cotton production. Today’s witnesses represented the diversity of Georgia’s agricultural production including poultry, cotton, peanut, livestock, soybean, wheat, corn, fruit and vegetable producers.
03.29.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement: “As members of Congress we have taken a solemn oath to protect and defend our citizens in a time of war. Securing America is a difficult and challenging task that requires substantive action, commitment and resolve. Commitment to securing America consists of more than just words on a sheet of paper. It is about action. House Republicans have a strong record to stand on and we plan to continue to do what is necessary to defend America. Support for the PATRIOT Act, terrorist surveillance, funding for our troops and maintaining our resolve in the central front on the War on Terror are the hallmarks of an agenda that has kept us safe since 9/11.”
03.23.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, participated in the Texas Ag Council’s forum at Texas Tech University in Lubbock, Texas. “Today, I had the opportunity to listen to the thoughts and concerns of West Texas’ farmers and ranchers,” said Conaway. “As Congress draws closer to writing the 2007 Farm Bill, it is important for us to listen to those who are directly affected by the federal government’s farm policies. Providing a safety net for America’s farmers and ranchers is absolutely essential to maintaining the excellence of the world’s most abundant and safe food supply.” In addition to Representative Conaway, the panel of speakers included Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Representative Randy Neugebauer (R-TX). The event was moderated by former House Agriculture Committee Chairman Larry Combest (R-TX), who represented West Texas in Congress for 18 years. The panel listened to the testimonies of producers and other representatives of livestock and commodity groups from all over West Texas. Conaway went on to say, “I would like to commend the Texas Ag Council, Chairman Chambliss, Former Chairman Combest and fellow Ag Committee member Randy Neugebauer for their efforts and participation. Federal investment in agriculture is sound policy not only for America’s producers, but for America’s consumers as well. In the coming months, I will be very active as the 2007 Farm Bill begins to take shape. I plan to do my part to communicate the concerns of agriculture producers in West Texas and to provide a level playing field for our farmers and ranchers.” Congressman Conaway currently serves on the House Committee on Agriculture. He also serves on Subcommittee on Livestock and Horticulture.
03.16.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a proponent of a non-amnesty temporary worker program, released the following statement on the issue of immigration reform: “It is time for us to set aside our prejudices, biases and fears, and have an honest and rational discussion on the issue of immigration reform. As members of Congress, we are responsible for leading that discussion, but so far the debate on immigration reform has consisted of emotional rhetoric not reasonable discussion. Meaningful immigration reform must consist of much more than just added border patrol agents, taller fences and improved technology. It will require changing how people can enter the country legally. We need to know who is coming across the border and what their intentions are. A non-amnesty temporary worker program will create a rational and humane system to track immigrants while alleviating our unskilled labor shortage.” Congressman Conaway toured the Texas-Mexico border with President Bush in November. Texas’ District 11 consists of 36 rural counties that range from the Texas-New Mexico border across the desert of West Texas and into the Hill Country of Central Texas.
03.14.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) congratulated the city of Odessa on being selected as one of the two proposed sites in Texas that will compete in the national selection process for the FutureGen project. “I congratulate the city of Odessa on being chosen as one of the final two Texas sites for the FutureGen project,” said Conaway, who sent a letter of support to the Secretary of Energy, Sam Bodman back in December. “Odessa is a natural fit for what promises to be an important energy venture on the cutting edge of technology. I am very excited about working with the Department of Energy and with my colleagues in the Texas Delegation as the process moves forward. I plan to make a strong case for the people of West Texas.” Numerous cities across Texas submitted proposals to the State of Texas with hopes of bringing the $1 billion project to their community. FutureGen would operate as a near emission-free, coal-fired electric and hydrogen production plant. The 275-megawatt prototype plant will serve as a large scale engineering laboratory for testing new clean power, carbon capture, and coal-to-hydrogen technologies. It will be the cleanest fossil fuel-fired power plant in the world. Conaway went on to say, “I would like to thank everyone that has been involved in this process. Their efforts on behalf of the city of Odessa have been tireless and I look forward to working with them as we continue our efforts at the federal level.” Odessa, Texas would be an ideal location for the FutureGen Initiative. The West Texas energy producing community has always been a vocal supporter of innovative and forward-thinking energy projects. It is home to a large portion of Texas’ energy production.
03.14.2006	Today, U.S. Congressman Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement: “Today, I voted in favor of House Resolution 354, a bill that expresses Congress’ support for allowing military recruiters to continue to conduct their activities on-campus. As I have always stated, any institution of higher education that receives federal funds should provide the United States military with the same access and opportunity that is provided to any other employer. Their hard work provides America's young men and women with the information they need to make informed decisions regarding service to our country. As an Army Veteran I stand by our military recruiters 100 percent."
03.10.2006	The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today that payroll employment increased by 243,000 jobs last month and the unemployment rate fell to 4.8 percent. “Once again the U.S. economy has proven its enduring strength,” said Conaway. “The economy is running at near full-employment and the unemployment rate continues to remain low. This is a direct result of the pro-growth policies that were put in place by President Bush and Congress over the last five years. That is why it is important for Congress to act by making these tax relief policies permanent.” The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported jobs gains of 243,000 which now constitutes 30 straight months of job growth. Approximately 5 million jobs have been created since the Jobs and Growth Act of 2003 was signed and the unemployment rate has declined significantly from 6.3 percent in June 2003 to 4.8 percent. That is lower than average unemployment rate of the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. Conaway went on to say, “Our economy is strong because taxes are lower and Americans have more money in their wallet. Small businesses are expanding and as the backbone of our economy they are driving it forward. Today, more Americans are working than ever before and because of that 70 percent of Americans own their own homes. That is a record we should all be proud of.” Congressman Conaway is a CPA and member of the House Budget Committee.
03.02.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced legislation that would require all members of Congress and senior staff to read and understand the Constitution. The bill, dubbed the “AMERICA Act”, A Modest Effort to Read and Instill the Constitution Again, would also require written proof of fulfillment once during every Congressional session. “Just as lawyers and doctors understand the law and human anatomy, it is imperative for serving legislators in Congress to understand the Constitution,” said Conaway. “The Founding Fathers of this great nation wanted to protect the rights and freedoms of states and individuals by dividing power between individuals, states, and the national government. The result is a system of shared roles designed to prevent any one element from gaining too much power. The first step to understanding the document is reading it.” Extending to include all Senate, House, and committee staff, the “AMERICA” Act is meant to be a reminder to our lawmakers to stay within our country’s founding framework. Reducing the number of proposed bills that exceed the government’s powers granted by the Constitution will increase the efficiency of the federal government and the entire legislative process. Conaway went on to say, “As members of Congress, our duty is to uphold the Constitution by writing and passing laws. With that responsibility in mind, it is vital that members of Congress and their staff be familiar with, and fully understand our country’s most sacred document. The Constitution embodies the principles that our Founding Fathers relied upon as pillars to form a unified and stable nation, and it is important that we never lose sight of that.”
02.27.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the New York Times’ decision to sue the Defense Department over terrorist surveillance documents: “The New York Times’ decision to sue the Department of Defense over documents related to the terrorist surveillance program seriously undermines our national security. To entrust the very same newspaper that leaked confidential national security information with internal memos and emails would only further jeopardize our government’s ability to protect its people. Their disclosure of such sensitive information should be viewed as a crime, not as an act of heroism as it has been so popularly portrayed in the mainstream media. By choosing to take on the Department of Defense in court, the New York Times has decided that they are better guardians against the threat of terrorism than the officials that have been entrusted to defend this nation.” “Let’s not forget that the New York Times is the very same newspaper that disclosed weaknesses in the body armor of our troops and put the lives of our men and women in uniform in danger. While the body armor vulnerabilities were not classified, the printing of a diagram in a widely-read newspaper like the New York Times clearly showed poor judgment and a lack of responsibility with sensitive information on their part. I strongly support the Department of Defense on this issue.”
02.16.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) introduced the Federal Programs Offset Resolution. The bill amends the legislative rules of the House and would force Congress to set priorities on federal spending. “Congress must do a better job of setting priorities,” said Conaway, who serves on the House Budget Committee. “We need a mechanism that halts runaway government growth and spending. Reducing the deficit should be a top priority this Congress. We should only enact a new federal program if it is considered to be a higher priority than an existing program or programs.” The ‘Conaway Rule’ would change House legislative procedure to block the establishment of a new federal program without the TERMINATION of an existing federal program or programs of equal or greater spending. The rule change would also prevent an increase in the level of spending to existing spending for government programs in order to block a potential legislative loop-hole. Members of Congress that have signed on as original cosponsors to the bill include, Rep. Eric Cantor (R-VA), Rep. John Shadegg (R-AZ), Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN), Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX) and Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), along with 20 additional members of Congress. Rep. Conaway is a CPA and a member of the House Budget Committee.
02.08.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Armed Services and Budget Committees, released the following statement regarding today’s testimony from Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld and Chairman of the Joint Chief’s of Staff Peter Pace: “Secretary Rumsfeld and General Pace’s commitment to continuing to transform the United States military is absolutely critical and their dedication is greatly appreciated. The President’s budget is right on target in terms of setting priorities. The defense priorities set in this budget are critical to our success in the global war on terror and sets a foundation on which we should all be able to agree. Defending against catastrophic terrorism, prevailing in irregular warfare operations and maintaining our superiority against traditional and non-traditional threats are all necessary goals for defending our nation and its citizens.” “We currently face an unconventional enemy that is unafraid to use new and deadly tactics against us and we must be ready to defend against them. The Department of Defense is doing the difficult work of transforming our military into a modern 21st Century fighting force. As the terrorist threat continues to set its sights on the United States, the Armed Forces must continue to receive the essential tools to successfully identify and adapt to the rapidly changing environment.”
02.07.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX) released the following statement in response the U.S. Air Force’s decision not to establish the Introductory Flight Training Program in Midland, Texas: “I am disappointed by today’s announcement by the Air Force. Despite our best efforts we fell short of our goal of bringing the flight training program to West Texas. However, I am encouraged and proud of the hard work and long hours that the many Midland city officials put into this effort. It is a decision that I personally disagree with, but one that I am sure was made with the best interests of our country in mind. Texas has a longstanding tradition of supporting the dedicated men and women of our armed forces and my only regret is that the city of Midland will not have the opportunity to exemplify that tradition in this instance.”
02.06.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway released the following statement regarding President Bush’s State of the Union Address: “We experienced many great successes in 2005, but continue to face serious challenges. The United States has emerged as a force for democracy across the globe and Americans are safer from the threat of terrorism. Our economy continues to grow and create jobs under the steady and decisive leadership of our President and this Congress.” “President Bush’s conservative agenda includes a variety of bold reforms that address America’s need for greater competitiveness in the global economy. We need to reform our health care payment system so that every American can to afford health care. Congress also needs to commit itself to making serious fiscal reforms as well as help reduce America’s dependence on foreign sources of energy.” “Most importantly, protecting the American people must come first. We are currently engaged in a Global War on Terror that must be fought on two fronts, here at home and abroad. Americans deserve to feel secure in the fact that their leaders are doing all they can to protect them from harm. It is critical that the President has the necessary tools and the support of Congress to effectively execute and win the War on Terror.”
02.06.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway (R-TX), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement regarding President’s Bush’s budget proposal: “Today, President Bush offered up a budget proposal that attempts to address our federal spending needs while placing an emphasis on fiscal restraint. I look forward to examining his proposal over the next few weeks as the Budget Committee begins hearings on the issue. Congress is ready and willing to take the necessary steps toward reducing the rate of growth in federal spending while continuing to grow this economy through sound fiscal policies.” “The President and Congress must go one step further by pledging to halt creation of any new federal programs unless a program of equal cost is eliminated. It is of vital importance that we gain control of the deficit and live within our means so that we do not place our debt today squarely on the shoulders of future generations.” Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Budget Committee.
02.06.2006	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Conaway released the following statement regarding his attendance at today’s Farm Bill hearing in North Carolina: “Today, I had the opportunity to listen to the testimony of those who are directly affected by the federal government’s farm policies. Providing a safety net for America’s farmers and ranchers is absolutely essential to maintaining the excellence of the world’s most abundant and safe food supply. Federal investment in agriculture is sound policy not only for America’s producers, but for America’s consumers as well. The 2002 Farm Bill has served as an excellent example of how to provide a safety net for our farmers and ranchers. I intend to be very active in the coming months as the 2007 Farm Bill begins to take shape so that I can do my part to communicate the concerns of agriculture producers to my colleagues in Congress.” Congressman Conaway is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture.
01.26.2006	Yesterday Taiwan announced the resumption of trade in U.S. boneless beef from animals less than 30 months of age. “I am pleased with Taiwan’s decision to reopen this global market for U.S. beef. We are all better served when international trade is based on decisions of sound science and internationally recognized standards. Our objective is the continuation of normal beef trade throughout the world and we will continue to work diligently until that is achieved.” Taiwan purchased $325 million worth of U.S. beef and beef products in 2003, and was the sixth-largest importer of U.S. beef before Taiwan imposed its first ban in December 2003. Congressman Mike Conaway serves on the House Committee on Agriculture and the Subcommittee of Livestock and Horticulture.
