04.22.2019	Today, Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) and Congressman Ted W. Lieu (D-Los Angeles County) introduced a resolution reaffirming the importance of the U.S.’s economic relationship with Israel. The resolution highlights the many ways U.S.-Israel economic cooperation has benefited both countries, including encouraging technological innovation and scientific advancement. Upon introduction, Rep. Allen said: “I am proud to join Congressman Lieu today as we work in a bipartisan manner to introduce H. Res 324, which recognizes the significance of our nation’s strong and meaningful economic relationship with the state of Israel. Israel has been one of our most beloved allies and we must continue to stand in solidarity with this beacon of democracy. I look forward to advancing our mutually beneficial friendship and partnership with Israel for years to come.” Upon introduction, Rep. Lieu said: “Israel is one of our strongest allies, largely because our shared values encourage democracy, openness and innovation. As a robust trade partner, Israel has supported American interests in a variety of fields such as cybersecurity, clean energy and agriculture. Through trade and knowledge-sharing, Israel has been a profoundly important relationship for the United States. I’m grateful to partner with Congressman Allen on this bipartisan resolution that demonstrates our commitment to continue to work with and support this thriving partnership.” To read the full text of the resolution, please CLICK HERE. ###
03.26.2019	WASHINGTON – Yesterday evening, U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12), on the House floor, asked Democratic leadership for unanimous consent for the full House of Representatives to consider H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, of which Congressman Allen is an original cosponsor. This legislation would require any health care practitioner present at the time a child is born alive after an attempted abortion to provide the same care that they would for any other child. This marks the 20th time that House Republicans have asked for consideration of H.R. 962, and each time, House Democrats have refused. Speaker: For what purpose does the gentleman from Georgia seek recognition? Congressman Allen: Mr.Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that the Committee on Judiciary be discharged from further consideration of H.R. 962, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, and ask for its immediate consideration in the House. Speaker: Under guidelines consistently issued by successive speakers as recorded in section 956 of the House rules and manual, the Chair is constrained not to entertain the request unless it has been cleared by the bipartisan floor and committee leaderships. Congressman Allen: Mr. Speaker, if this unanimous consent request cannot be entertained, I urge the Speaker and the Majority Leader to immediately schedule the Born-Alive bill so we can stand up and protect the sanctity of human life, and I would ask all others to join in that request. ###
03.22.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement today after touring Plant Vogtle in Waynesboro, Georgia, along with Secretary of Energy, Rick Perry, Secretary of Agriculture, Sonny Perdue, Governor Brian Kemp, and others. During the visit, Secretary Perry announced that the Department of Energy will guarantee $3.7 billion in additional loans for the construction and completion of Units 3 and 4 – the first new nuclear reactors to be built in the United States in more than 30 years. “Today’s announcement from Secretary Perry to guarantee up to $3.7 billion in additional loans for the Plant Vogtle nuclear expansion project marks a pivotal moment for the continued progress on Units 3 and 4,” said Congressman Allen. “The significance of this project for Georgia’s 12th district, the state of Georgia, and our entire nation is paramount and I am extremely grateful for the continued investment. Georgia-12 is leading the way in America’s nuclear energy expansion, and I am proud that so many of our nation’s leaders were able to visit Plant Vogtle to show the world that America is a dominant player in the global nuclear industry.” To read Department of Energy Secretary, Rick Perry’s, statement, please CLICK HERE. Background: After Westinghouse declared bankruptcy nearly two years ago, Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power, and Dalton Utilities made the decision to move forward with construction of two new nuclear reactors at Plant Vogtle, located in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. Southern Nuclear, a subsidiary of Southern Company, is now overseeing construction. Additionally, last year, Congress, with Congressman Allen’s support, extended the Nuclear Production Tax Credit, an important provision to the future of new nuclear. ###
03.21.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12), along with Congressmen Sanford Bishop (D-GA-02) and Drew Ferguson (R-GA-03), released the following statement today after introducing H. Res. 247, a resolution recognizing the 50th anniversary of the Dental College of Georgia at Augusta University. “For fifty years, the Dental College of Georgia has successfully educated and prepared students from all walks of life to enter the dental profession and provide a valuable service to their communities,” said Congressman Allen. “As the only dental college in the state of Georgia, enrolling nearly four hundred students and sixty residents annually, we certainly have cause for celebration. I am proud to introduce this resolution today with my fellow Georgians, Congressman Bishop and Congressman Ferguson, to recognize this tremendous milestone for dental education in our great state.” Congressman Sanford Bishop stated: “Congratulations Dental College of Georgia on fifty years of educating future dentists! Your commitment to research, patient care and community service is an example to the state of Georgia and beyond. I am proud to sponsor such a resolution with my colleagues Congressmen Ferguson and Allen to recognize the service DCG has done for Georgia over the past fifty years. I wish the college a continued success for the next fifty years and beyond!” Congressman Drew Ferguson said the following: “The Dental College of Georgia has been a rock solid institution of learning since its founding 50 years ago. Year after year, it has fulfilled and surpassed its mission to train oral health professionals to meet the needs of Georgians. A remarkable faculty, a diverse and talented group of students, a commitment to clinical research and strong leadership come together to make the Dental College of Georgia one of the elite dental schools in the nation. I am proud to be a graduate and grateful for the training and experience I received.” To read the full text of H. Res. 247, please CLICK HERE.
03.20.2019	U.S. Congressmen Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) and Joe Wilson (R-SC-02) announced today that they would be holding a press conference on Thursday, March 21, 2019 to encourage members of the community to attend the public comment hearing, hosted by the cities of Augusta and North Augusta, on the New Savannah Bluff Lock and Dam. The hearing will be held at the Augusta Commission Chamber on Thursday at 5:00 p.m. “Simply put, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ recommended plan to replace the New Savannah Bluff Lock and Dam is unacceptable. As we saw during the Corps' simulation last month, their desired plan would result in extreme consequences for water users, members of the community, and the entire CSRA,” said Congressman Allen. "Throughout this process, I have been passionately fighting this plan and advocating for a solution that does not negatively impact our community. I strongly encourage members of the CSRA to attend Thursday’s public hearing to voice your concerns about the Corps’ recommended plan to replace the Lock and Dam.” Congressman Joe Wilson said the following: “It is disappointing that the Army Corps of Engineers would interpret the language of the WIIN Act to hurt our riverfront communities. The effects of the drawdown were disgraceful and the pool must be maintained at 114.5 feet. I urge everyone to submit comment to the Corps and attend the hearing hosted by the cities of Augusta and North Augusta on Thursday March 21, 2019 from 5-7 p.m.” WHO: Congressmen Rick W. Allen and Joe Wilson WHAT: Press Conference on the New Savannah Bluff Lock and Dam WHEN: Thursday, March 21, 2019 9:15 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. WHERE: 8th Street Entrance to the Riverwalk Augusta, Georgia 30901 RSVP: Media can contact Carlton Norwood Jr. Carlton.Norwood@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-2823 ###
03.14.2019	Today, U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) announced the 2019 High School Congressional Art Competition. Each Spring, Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sponsor a nation-wide high school arts competition, better known as the “Artistic Discovery Competition.” This contest is open to all high school students (9th – 12th grade) in Georgia’s 12th district and provides an opportunity to recognize and encourage artistic talent throughout the nation. The winning artwork will be displayed for one year in the U.S. Capitol, along with artwork from other congressional districts. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to highlight the creativity and artistic talents of high school students in Georgia and across the country,” said Congressman Allen. “I look forward to seeing submissions from our young artists and the special ways they have chosen to highlight the 12th District of Georgia. I encourage all interested high school students to take part in this special tradition.” Submitted artwork must be original in concept, design, and execution and must depict a scene from the 12th District of Georgia. All artwork must be submitted between April 22nd – 24th at one of the following six drop-off locations: Augusta District Office: 2743 Perimeter Parkway, Bldg. 200, Suite 105, Augusta, GA 30909 (9 am – 5 pm) Dublin High School: 1127 Hillcrest Parkway, Dublin, GA 31021 (8 am – 3 pm) Appling County High School: 482 Blackshear Highway, Baxley, GA 31513 (8 am – 3 pm) Vidalia Heritage Academy Upper School: 207 East Second Street, Vidalia, Georgia 30474 (8 am – 3 pm) Statesboro High School: 10 Lester Rd, Statesboro, GA 30458 (8 am – 3 pm) Emanuel County Institute: 102 S College St, Twin City, GA 30471 (8 am – 3 pm) For more information and official rules, please visit: https://allen.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. If you have any additional questions please contact Christine Rhodes in our Augusta District Office at (706) 228-1980 or Christine.Rhodes@mail.house.gov. ###
03.13.2019	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) held a telephone town hall last night to answer questions from residents of Georgia's 12th District. Congressman Allen gave an update on Women’s History Month and President Trump’s efforts to empower women around the world, some of the harmful legislation that Speaker Pelosi and House Democrats are pushing under a new majority in the House, his work on the House Education and Labor Committee, efforts to protect the sanctity of life, and much more. For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Renee from Lyons asked about work being done on behalf of Georgia teachers: Congressman Allen: “As you may know, Governor Kemp and the state legislature have just announced a substantial increase…for teachers’ salaries [in Georgia]. We’re a growing state, we need to have more teachers [to go] with the number of jobs being created in this country. We have the best economy in the world, we have 7.4 million [available] jobs out there, and I tell young people today that I have never seen opportunities like this in my lifetime.” Teresa from Sylvania asked about enforcing our immigration laws: Congressman Allen: “You nailed it! …We have enough laws on the books, let’s get the job done here, let’s protect the American people – which should priority number one. I couldn’t agree with you more. We have drugs pouring in over that border and through our ports, and for the life of me; I cannot understand why we have people who resist this who are members of Congress…Thank you so much for that question.” Robert from Douglas asked about Congressional action being taken to end the practice of “spoofing.” Congressman Allen: “Congress passed a law that would help stop the ‘spoofing’ calls last year and we have to stop the fraudulent calls [as well]. The FCC (Federal Communications Commission) has told us that they are working on this law right now and you’re not the first to [bring this to our attention]…this has to be fixed because it is really a nuisance, and we will get to work on that.” For those who may be unaware, the term “spoofing” refers to the malicious practice of falsifying telephone numbers through caller ID in an effort to steal sensitive information. Linda from Sylvania asked about President Trump’s proposed southern border wall: Congressman Allen: “You watch the news and you have seen the caravans, and it has been much different under former Presidents. [We are seeing] whole families coming in. Before, it was just folks who wanted to find work…and then go back home. We have a totally different situation right now. The way I see it – this was one of the President’s [promises] that got him elected. In other words, people are sick and tired of us not enforcing the laws already on the books and they are sick and tired of people coming here illegally and demanding the services that we have all worked for for generations. “We have the most abundant immigration system in the world. We take in about one million legal residents a year. That is the most generous in the world, yet we have this problem… Bottom line, this was one of President Trump’s promises, and every time I talk to him he says, ‘Congressman – promises made, promises kept.’ The Democrats do not want him to fulfill those promises; it is just that simple… The President is responsible for national security and this border is a security problem.” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington and for the 12th District, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here.
03.12.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that he will be hosting a public briefing on Thursday, March 21, 2019 at 10:00 a.m. to highlight the federal and Georgia Free File programs that provide free state income tax preparation and e-filing services to lower and moderate income taxpayers. “Free File is a great example of how government, the private sector and community groups can work together to provide an important service to the people,” said Congressman Allen. “Filing your taxes can sometimes be a burdensome task, but I am pleased to be able to offer this opportunity for Georgia taxpayers to learn more about how they can file their federal and state taxes online and in person for free. I look forward to hosting this briefing to highlight this essential program and assist lower and moderate income taxpayers in filing their taxes.” WHAT: Georgia Free File Public Briefing WHEN: Thursday, March 21, 2019 at 10:00 a.m. WHERE: Augusta-Richmond County, Main Library 823 Telfair Street Augusta, GA 30901 RSVP: Media can contact Carlton Norwood Jr. Carlton.Norwood@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-2823 For additional information to share, please CLICK HERE. ###
03.08.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) yesterday spoke out on the House floor against H.R. 1, legislation deceitfully known as the "For the People Act," which passed the House of Representatives today by a vote of 234-193, along party lines. Excerpts from Congressman Allen's speech can be found below. When Republicans were in the majority, we reserved H.R. 1 for legislation that actually benefitted the American people by putting more money in their pockets, growing the economy through the historic tax reform bill... Now here we are – under a new majority – planning to vote on a bill telling folks that their hard-earned taxpayer dollars will be going to a political candidate that they would never support. This bill goes too far and is nothing more than a power grab from the Democrats to try to ensure one party rule. This socialist, top-down, one-size-fits-all election system violates states’ rights, fails to criminalize fraudulent voter registrations, and limits every Americans’ constitutional right to free speech under the First Amendment. We do not need the heavy, overreaching hand of the federal government corrupting every single election across this great nation. Madam Speaker, I’ve said it before and I will say it again – this legislation is not reform for the better, and it is NOT for the people.
02.27.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted on H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background Checks Act, which would require universal background checks on all firearm sales or transfers, even temporary transfers of possession, and would require a federally licensed firearm dealer to facilitate. Under current law, background checks are already required on every commercial gun purchase in America. “While many are quick to say we need more gun control laws, more red tape for law-abiding citizens will not stop the evil acts of a few who are intent on committing a crime,” said Congressman Allen. “In fact, today’s legislation would not have prevented any of the recent mass acts of violence where firearms were involved. During my time in Congress, I will continue to stand up for our traditional, Georgia values and work with my colleagues on reasonable solutions that address the root causes of mass violence and do not jeopardize our Constitutional rights." ###
02.26.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted on H. J. Res. 46, legislation terminating the national emergency declared by President Trump on February 15, 2019. “President Trump has made it abundantly clear that effectively securing our border and ensuring the safety and security of our great nation remains paramount, and I stand behind his decision to use his Constitutional authority as President to declare this national emergency,” said Congressman Allen. “House Democrats have proven today once again that they are more concerned with undermining the President of the United States than they are about bringing real solutions to the table to address the national security crisis currently facing our nation.” ###
02.22.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that his staff will be holding Community Office Hours across the 12th district during the month of March. These office hours offer the opportunity for constituents to receive personal assistance from Congressman Allen’s office in their local communities. There will be no formal presentation nor will Congressman Allen be in attendance. The office hours are about one-on-one visits between staff and Georgia-12 constituents. Staff will be available to assist with a number of federal issues, including problems with federal agencies, such as Social Security, Veterans Affairs, Medicare, and others. “Constituent service has always been a top priority of mine since being elected to represent Georgia's 12th district in Congress,"said Congressman Allen."My staff and I stand ready to help with issues experienced at the federal level and I am pleased to offer this opportunity for my office to provide constituents direct assistance closer to home.” Congressman Allen has permanent offices located in Richmond, Toombs, Laurens, and Bulloch counties; therefore, community office hours will not be held in these counties. Please see below for a list of Community Office Hours dates, times and locations by county: Treutlen County WHEN: Friday, March 1 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Treutlen County Commissioners Office 1830 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive Soperton, GA 30457 Montgomery County WHEN: Friday, March 1 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Montgomery County Courthouse 400 S. Railroad Avenue Mount Vernon, GA 30445 Wheeler County WHEN: Friday, March 1 from 1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Alamo City Hall 105 Commerce Street Alamo, GA 30411 Coffee County WHEN: Tuesday, March 5 from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Douglas/Coffee County Chamber of Commerce 114 N. Peterson Avenue Douglas, GA 31533 Jeff Davis County WHEN: Tuesday, March 5 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Chamber of Commerce 95 E. Jarman Street Hazlehurst, GA 31539 Burke County WHEN: Thursday, March 7 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. WHERE: County Commission Boardroom, Burke County Courthouse 111 E. 6th Street Waynesboro, GA 30830 Effingham County WHEN: Thursday, March 7 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Effingham County Board of Commissioners Administrative Complex 601 N. Laurel Street Springfield, GA 31329 Columbia County WHEN: Thursday, March 7 from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: City of Grovetown 103 Old Wrightsboro Road Grovetown, GA 30813 Screven County WHEN: Thursday, March 7 from 2:45 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. WHERE: Screven County Courthouse, Commission Boardroom 216 Mims Road Sylvania, GA 30467 Jenkins County WHEN: Thursday, March 14 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Millen City Hall 919 College Avenue Millen, GA 30442 Emanuel County WHEN: Thursday, March 14 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Emanuel County Commission Board Room 101 N. Main St. Swainsboro, GA 30401 Candler County WHEN: Thursday, March 14 from 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Metter City Hall 49 S. Rountree St. Metter, GA 30439 Appling County WHEN: Wednesday, March 20 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Appling Courthouse Annex, Commissioners Meeting Room 69 Tippins Street Baxley, GA 31513 Tattnall County WHEN: Wednesday, March 20 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Glennville Welcome Center 136 S. Veterans Boulevard Glennville, GA 30427 Evans County WHEN: Wednesday, March 20 from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Claxton City Hall 206 W. Railroad Avenue Claxton, GA 30417 ###
02.19.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) today announced his 2019 Summer Internship Program for his Washington D.C. and district offices. Applications must be submitted online at Allen.house.gov/forms/internships by March 15, with phone interviews to follow. The internships will be split into two six-week sessions, May 13 - June 21 and June 24 - August 2. Our Summer Internship Program offers the opportunity for high school graduates and young professionals to learn firsthand how the U.S. government and legislative process operates. Applicable candidates will cover a range of responsibilities critical to the success of a Congressional Office such as constituent input, answering phone calls, legislative writing, attending policy briefings and hearings, and much more. These internships provide a unique learning experience for young professionals to network with individuals from all walks of life, with the possibility of earning school credit. Jane Douglas, Intern Coordinator for Congressman Allen, is available to assist with any questions or concerns from interested candidates. Jane can be reached by phone at (202)-225-2823 or by email at Jane.Douglas@mail.house.gov. For those interested in district office internships, please contact Brinsley Thigpen at (706)-228-1980 or Brinsley.Thigpen@mail.house.gov. “Interning in a Congressional Office offers a unique opportunity to gain valuable insight into the legislative process and how our government operates,” said Congressman Allen. “Tasks and responsibilities may differ between our D.C. and district offices; however, all interns will play an integral role in carrying out the functions of our day-to-day operations while gaining experience that will help them in the future. We practice a bottom-up approach to empower others to be the best they can be, and many of our previous interns have transitioned into a variety of very successful career paths. My staff and I look forward to welcoming these talented young professionals to Team Allen in the coming months.” ###
02.14.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement this evening on the last-minute spending package. “Late yesterday evening, my colleagues and I were finally given the opportunity to see the over 1,000-page spending bill. With only about twenty-four hours to review this legislation, I simply could not offer my support,” said Congressman Allen. “Our nation is facing a very real crisis, and this bill does not go far enough to secure our border and stop the influx of illegal immigration and deadly drugs that are pouring into our country, nor does it provide the much needed disaster assistance for Georgia farmers who were devastated by Hurricane Michael last October. I’ve said it many times – we must get our appropriations process back to regular order so we can avoid scenarios where we have such a short amount of time to read and vote on a giant spending package. We can and must do better.” ###
02.12.2019	Last week, U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) participated in a special order on the House floor, hosted by Congressman Mark Walker (NC-06), to highlight the significant need to secure our border and stop illegal immigration. Thank you, Congressman Walker, and thank you for your work here today… we’ve heard so many stories about people that have been affected by this problem at our southern border. Many of my friends and colleagues continue to fight to resolve the crisis at our southern border, end illegal immigration, and save innocent, American lives. I’d like to share the story of Eliud Montoya, a naturalized American citizen, a hard worker, a Georgia resident; he was violently shot and killed in 2017 at the hands of three illegal immigrants living just south of Georgia’s 12th district. Mr. Montoya, who worked for a tree service company, reported some suspicious activity to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission – alleging that illegal workers were being employed as a part of a scheme to defraud that company. By doing his duty and reporting this illegal activity to the proper authorities, Mr. Montoya was senselessly murdered by illegal immigrants who reportedly collected more than $3.5 million of illegal profits. Folks, this is a very real crisis we are facing at our southern border and we simply cannot allow lawlessness to consume this nation. In his State of the Union on Tuesday, President Trump said it best, “the lawless state of our southern border is a threat to the safety, security, and financial well-being of all Americans. We have a moral duty to create an immigration system that protects the lives and jobs of our citizens.” Think about this – if you put in the most advanced security system in your home, would you take down the front door? I’m 100% with the President, and with that, I yield back. ###
02.08.2019	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) held a telephone town hall last night to answer questions from residents of Georgia's 12th District. Congressman Allen gave an update on some of the accomplishments signed into law during the 115th Congress under the Republican-led House and Senate, President Trump’s State of the Union, his committee assignments for the 116th Congress, as well as some of the harmful Democratic priorities under the new majority in the House of Representatives. For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Linda from Claxton commented on the need for rural broadband and praised the 2018 Farm Bill being signed into law in December: Congressman Allen: “Well Linda we are working on broadband across the entire 12th district and it’s critical to the future of our economic development. Rural America has a great opportunity, as we build that infrastructure, to really compete with the larger cities. We are really excited about [the Farm Bill being signed into law]; it is a long time coming. Thank you so much.” Mike from Waynesboro asked about pro-life legislation: Congressman Allen: “We went to a prayer breakfast this morning and the President …talked about the sanctity of life, and 90% of the folks in the room applauded and celebrated that. And he talked about the horrible celebration of death in New York and Virginia. I don’t understand the Democrats' position on this...169 of my colleagues [and I] sent a letter to the President asking him to pledge to support pro-life policies, and I know he sent a letter to the Speaker basically saying that if you send me any legislation that changes any of our pro-life polices, I will veto it.” Angelia from Garfield asked about electronic logging devices in the trucking industry: Congressman Allen: “The answer to that question is yes, I have supported legislation [to stop these regulations] …One of the biggest problems is when you’re hauling livestock… it needs flexibility…Thanks for sharing this with us and we will continue to try to find a solution to this, but it is presenting major problems to our trucking industry and moving our goods and services around this country.” Patty from Hazlehurst asked about the rising cost of prescription drugs: Congressman Allen: “Yes, the President actually addressed that the other night – America is home to the greatest medical innovation in the world. What that means is that we are subsidizing the drug costs for the rest of the world, which is why the President said this stuff has got to stop. And he basically said that we should not be paying any more than other nations that are purchasing these drugs, in fact all of the drugs, pretty much, are developed here…. So the President and the [house] Energy and Commerce Committee are addressing this, they are having hearings on it, and this is going to be a bipartisan issue. So, I feel very optimistic there will be very good progress on this in the 116th congress.” James from Hephzibah asked about the cyber opportunities in the Augusta area: Congressman Allen: “I was out at the [Cyber Academy of Excellence at the Richmond County Technical Career] Magnet School, in Richmond County…There are 160 young people in that program and twelve of them already have jobs… these young people are in high school! I didn’t have a job when I graduated from high school. Another thing we have done is we have secured almost $375 million in military construction projects there at Fort Gordon alone…We are ramping up very quickly, obviously you are seeing a lot of infrastructure improvements around the area. But these things take time and, yes sir, we are working on all fronts, and again the potential is unlimited, and thank you for your support.” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington and for the 12th District, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
02.05.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement this evening after attending President Donald J. Trump’s 2019 State of the Union address in the House Chamber. “Over the last year, Congress worked hand-in-hand with President Donald Trump to sign historic pieces of legislation into law that have unleashed the economic potential of America and helped secure our nation, from rolling back Dodd-Frank to combatting the opioid crisis to providing certainty to rural America in a 5-year Farm Bill. On the heels of yet another jobs report exceeding market expectations, we are continuing to see the incredible results of the deregulation efforts and pro-growth policies implemented under a Republican-led majority. “In tonight’s address, President Trump made it abundantly clear that we still have work that needs to be done. We must continue our fight to safeguard America’s national security interests, halt the influx of illegal immigration, drugs, and crime that pour into our country, enact school choice, and lower the skyrocketing costs of healthcare and prescription drugs due to the failures of Obamacare – and he’s asked both parties to join with him to accomplish these goals. In calling for unity and compromise, he outlined compelling solutions that we can all rally behind, and I stand ready to work with President Trump and his Administration to accomplish his proactive agenda and continue 'choosing greatness' for America.” ###
01.29.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement today after being selected to serve as the Senior Republican on the Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education Subcommittee, which falls under the jurisdiction of the House Education and Labor Committee, for the 116th Congress. “As the son of two educators and grandfather with school aged grandchildren, I am honored to serve as the Senior Republican on the Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education Subcommittee for the 116th Congress,” said Rep. Allen. “This subcommittee addresses a variety of issues ranging from early childhood programs like Head Start, to career and technical education, to school safety – issues I have been a passionate advocate for over the last four years. As the Senior Republican, I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure that K-12 education remains local, while also providing appropriate federal support so that our nation’s bright young scholars are sufficiently prepared to enter the workforce and achieve the American Dream." Republican Leader of the House Education and Labor Committee, Rep. Virginia Foxx (NC-05), said the following: “Rep. Allen has been a dedicated voice for all students, workers, and families during his time on the committee. He is a conscientious and consistent advocate for encouraging local control and increasing opportunities for children, and we will all benefit from his leadership on the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education.” ###
01.23.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement today after he was selected to continue his work on both the House Agriculture Committee and House Education and Labor Committee, formerly known as the House Education and Workforce Committee, for the 116th Congress. Congressman Allen has been a valued member of both committees since 2015. “As I continue my work on the House Agriculture Committee and the House Education and Labor Committee, I look forward to building on some of the tremendous achievements we’ve made over the last four years,” said Congressman Allen. “Just last month, President Trump signed the 2018 Farm Bill into law, which strengthens the farm safety net, provides more flexibility for our producers, protects and expands crop insurance, and much more. With agriculture being the number one industry in Georgia-12 and the state of Georgia as a whole, I am excited to continue my work advocating for the diverse agricultural priorities of our area and overseeing the implementation of the 2018 Farm Bill. “Additionally, on the House Education and Labor Committee, I look forward to supporting pro-growth policies to ensure a qualified workforce for our booming economy. With the new majority leading the Committee, I will fight any proposals that hurt the tremendous growth led by President Trump and the Republican led-Congress. ###
01.15.2019	Yesterday evening, U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) participated in a special order on the House floor, hosted by Rep. Vicky Hartzler (MO-04), to highlight the significance of properly securing our southern border. Thank you Representative Hartzler for your efforts in organizing this special order this evening as we continue to fight for the safety and security of our fellow Americans. I want to highlight “safety and security” because that is our number one role in this country. Madam Speaker, I rise tonight with many of my colleagues to address the significance of this crisis we are facing at our southern border. Just last week, President Trump addressed the nation from the Oval Office for the first time about the importance of border security – and mentioned the devastating story of Robert Page, who was violently murdered by an illegal immigrant in my home state of Georgia. A 76-year-old grandfather’s life was needlessly cut short at the hands of an individual who was in our country illegally. There are far too many families in our country who are coping with a tragic loss like this as a result of insufficient border security. Bottom line, whatever we’re doing for border security is not working – we must do more. And that’s not to mention the illegal drugs that are coming into the United States. As the President mentioned in his letter to Congress, three hundred Americans are killed every week from heroin. And ninety percent of that heroin comes across that Southern border. This is a humanitarian and national security crisis, my friends, and it must be addressed immediately, and it must be done properly. We are supposed to be a nation of laws – how can we stand by and let lawlessness continue? I’d ask that my colleagues on the other side of the aisle keep the best interests of American citizens in mind as they continue to deny funds for commonsense solutions to this growing crisis. It is this body, it is the United States Congress that appropriates funds, then it is sent to the President. I say this – Congress appropriate the funds, let’s build the wall, let’s send the bill to the President, and reopen this government. With an average of 60,000 illegals a month on our southern border, our law enforcement professionals must have the additional resources to successfully execute their jobs and keep the American people safe. From the day President Trump announced his candidacy, he has made it clear that border security is a priority, and his Administration has been built on “promises made, promises kept.” I can tell you that the good folks in Georgia’s 12th district want to secure our border with a wall. We want to do it the right way. We must stand behind our President – the security of our nation depends on it. With that, I yield back. ###
01.03.2019	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives convened to officially mark the start of the first legislative session of the 116th Congress. Congressman Allen was sworn in this afternoon, beginning his third term as the Representative for Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. “I am deeply humbled and grateful for the opportunity to continue representing the great people of Georgia’s 12th district in the People’s House,” said Congressman Allen. “We have many pressing issues before the 116th Congress, and I am hopeful that we can build upon some of the significant accomplishments we’ve made over the last two years working hand in hand with the Senate and Trump Administration. Under a new majority in the House, it is imperative that we set our differences aside, work together, and continue to put America first. I will remain a strong voice and will fight for Georgia-12 priorities and I am eager to see what the 116th Congress may bring.” ###
12.20.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed S. 756, the legislative vehicle for the First Step Act, by a vote of 358-36, with Congressman Allen’s support. The First Step Act is a bipartisan overhaul of our federal criminal justice system that will better support prisoners in their effort to return to society, find gainful employment, and reduce recidivism. Earlier this week, the U.S. Senate passed the measure with bipartisan support, clearing the way for House passage and President Trump’s signature. “Today’s passage of the First Step Act is a historic achievement for our nation’s criminal justice system after years of negotiation and debate,” said Congressman Allen. “This legislation ensures that our communities remain safe and protected, while also incentivizing those who have made life-altering mistakes to successfully transition and reintegrate themselves back into society through reentry projects such as academic classes, career training and more. By affording individuals with the dignity and respect that comes with a good job, we can effectively reduce the risk of recidivism significantly and provide a new sense of hope for many families and communities throughout our nation. “The state of Georgia has implemented a number of initiatives to assist prisoners with their re-entry into society, and I am thrilled that our federal criminal justice system will mirror some of these successful programs. I applaud my colleague in the Georgia delegation, Representative Doug Collins, and the Trump Administration for their hard work on this effort, and I look forward to seeing the First Step Act become the law of the land.” The First Step Act accomplishes the following: Creates an assessment system that assesses a prisoner’s risk of re-offending Provides proven, effective programs in recidivism-reduction, such as group and individual activities like social learning, academic classes, vocational training, faith-based classes, and prison jobs, that can be used to serve remaining sentences on home confinement Does not allow violent and high-risk criminals to take advantage of time credits that can be used toward home confinement Reduces federal mandatory minimum prison sentences for nonviolent drug offenders Expands a “safety valve” option which can be used to impose a shorter sentence than the mandatory minimum if certain conditions are met, while maintaining safeguards to ensure violent criminals cannot benefit from reduced sentences If possible, requires that inmates be imprisoned within 500 miles of their residence Prohibits solitary confinement in juvenile facilities ###
12.20.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement today after attending the White House signing ceremony for the 2018 Farm Bill. Congressman Allen played an integral role in drafting this legislation as a member of the House Agriculture Committee, as well as working closely with members of the House and Senate to finalize the Conference Report after being selected as a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee. Last week, the House of Representatives and U.S. Senate both passed the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, clearing the way for President Trump’s signature. “Today is an exciting day for our farmers, ranchers, and consumers in Georgia’s 12 district, in the state of Georgia as a whole, and throughout the nation,” said Congressman Allen. “This five-year farm bill has been a work in progress since I was elected to Congress in 2014, and after several years of negotiations, hearings, and a number of district-wide farm tours aimed at gathering input from those who are directly affected by this legislation, I can confidently say that we have delivered a new sense of certainty for rural America. “As law of the land, the 2018 Farm Bill will strengthen the farm safety net, provide more flexibility for our producers, protect and expand crop insurance, improve the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) – including program integrity, strengthen our efforts to provide quality broadband in rural areas, and much more. I’d like to thank President Trump for his continued commitment to rural America throughout this process and for signing this farm bill into law today.” Congressman Allen also said the following in response to U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Secretary Sonny Perdue’s announcement today to change the waiver rule for able-bodied adults without dependents currently on SNAP. “I applaud Secretary Perdue and the Trump Administration for taking meaningful action to assist Americans currently receiving SNAP benefits in securing gainful employment, while also protecting our most vulnerable communities. With over seven million available jobs throughout the country, we must ensure that we provide able-bodied adults without dependents a pathway out of poverty to prosperity. The 2018 Farm Bill allowed the Administration more flexibility in SNAP policy, and I hope to see this new rule come to fruition in the near future so that we may get America back to work.” ###
12.17.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed H.R. 3946 into law, legislation sponsored by Congressman Allen to rename the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) community-based outpatient clinic in Statesboro, Georgia, the “Ray Hendrix Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic.” “Sergeant Major Ray Hendrix committed his life to serving our nation and defending the freedoms that we, as Americans, are so blessed to have,” said Congressman Rick Allen. “After forty-two years of fearless and dedicated service, Sergeant Major Hendrix made it his duty to give back to the veterans’ community in Georgia by being an effective and valued board member of the State Veterans Service Board, fighting to establish the Statesboro VA Clinic, serving as an active voice in the American Legion, and much more. I can think of no one better to have their name honored at the local VA clinic in Bulloch County. “I am thrilled that we were able to get this legislation across the finish line to officially rename this facility to the Ray Hendrix Department of Veterans Affairs Clinic and I have no doubt that Ray Hendrix’s name and legacy will live on for generations to come with the quality care that this clinic will continue to provide to our nation’s bravest.” ###
12.12.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018, better known as the farm bill. In July, Congressman Allen was selected as one of two conferees to represent the House Education and Workforce Committee during the farm bill conference process, where he worked closely with members of the House and Senate to finalize the Conference Report, which passed in both chambers this week. “At the end of the day, this farm bill is about securing a brighter future for rural America,” said Congressman Allen. “Facing a nearly 50% decline in net farm income over the past five years, our farmers and ranchers in Georgia and nationwide have had their backs against the wall for far too long. I can confidently say that today’s legislation sets us on a brighter path moving forward. As a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee, I believe the agreement we have reached will strengthen the farm safety net and provide a sense of certainty and flexibility for those who feed and clothe our nation. “Yet, this legislation is not perfect. I was hopeful that the bill would go further to provide those currently enrolled in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) with valuable opportunities to prepare for gainful employment. However, we made meaningful progress in improving program integrity and preserving the Administration’s flexibility to enhance SNAP policy in the future and put Americans back to work. This bill was a culmination of the hard work we have done on the Agriculture Committee since I first came to Congress, and I was happy to offer my support for the Agriculture Improvement Act today so that it may go to the President’s desk and reinvigorate rural America.” Key wins in the Conference Report to H.R. 2, the Agriculture Improvement Act, are as follows: Reauthorizes and strengthens the Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) options through 2023 Provides certainty and flexibility to allow producers to make an annual decision between ARC and PLC Improves and expands credit for farmers and ranchers Includes over thirty improvements to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) Improves SNAP integrity by addressing existing data and auditing shortfalls Protects and enhances crop insurance Strengthens our efforts to provide quality broadband to rural America Chairman on the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11), said the following: “House Republicans refused to stop fighting for rural America and we’ve reached a deal that sets us on a better path – for producers, for rural communities and for American consumers. Rick has been a strong advocate and critical voice for production agriculture in this farm bill conference process and I’m thankful for his leadership, which helped get this across the finish line.” To view Congressman Allen's remarks on the House floor, please CLICK HERE. To view the full text of the Conference Report to H.R. 2, please CLICK HERE. ###
12.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) announcement to significantly scale back the definition of “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS). In 2015, under the Obama Administration, the EPA finalized a joint rule with the Army Corps of Engineers to expand the definition of WOTUS under the Clean Water Act, broadening the federal government’s regulatory authority of virtually any place where water flows across the country. Congressman Allen has been a vocal opponent of the WOTUS rule and introduced legislation last year to have the rule repealed. “The harmful and severely flawed WOTUS rule, finalized under the Obama Administration, was never in the best interest of our states, local governments and landowners,” said Congressman Allen. “Simply put, we do not need Washington bureaucrats overregulating smaller waterways such as backyard streams and puddles. The agencies’ proposed rule will serve as a breath of fresh air for our farmers and ranchers in Georgia and throughout the country and I am eager to see the positive impacts this proposal will have on rural America. I thank the Trump Administration and acting EPA Administrator, Andrew Wheeler, for following through on the commitment to significantly scale back the WOTUS rule.” To read more about the new proposed WOTUS definition, please CLICK HERE. ###
11.30.2018	WASHINGTON - Earlier this week, U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) participated in a Special Order on the House floor in recognition of National Bible Week. In 1941, President Franklin D. Roosevelt first declared National Bible Week during the week of Thanksgiving to encourage individuals to read and study the Bible. The special order, organized by Congressman Doug Lamborn (CO-05), included thirteen members of Congress as they reflected on what the Bible has contributed to their individual lives. Congressman Allen’s speech can be found below. Thank you, Mr. Lamborn, and it is indeed a pleasure to rise here tonight with my friends and colleagues in recognition of National Bible Week, which we celebrated last week during the Thanksgiving holiday. It is my privilege to stand in this chamber tonight – God led me to be here – to tell you what the Bible means to me and the impact it has had on the history of this nation. Throughout our country, we are seeing a distinct level of division that is evident in this very body and all across our land. In Exodus, God created the law, the 10 commandments, and instituted a government to carry out the law, saying, “Appoint judges and officials for each of your tribes in every town the Lord your God is giving you, and they shall judge the people fairly…Follow justice and justice alone, so that you may live and possess the land the Lord your God is giving you.” Right now, I am looking at the face of Moses over the entry to this House chamber. Government was instituted by God for one purpose: to restrain evil and promote good. We must ensure that this body, and throughout our government, that we are always working toward this purpose. Mark 3:24 says, “If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.” During trying times and always, we must turn to the word of our God and trust that he will lead us on a path to righteousness – as the truth can always be found in our faith in Him. And my fellow Americans, the truth shall set you free. One of the first scriptures I memorized was Joshua 1:8. It says, "This book of the law, the bible, shall not depart from your lips, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do what it says and what is written in it; for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have success.” I have prayed over this scripture and believe all who pray and follow the word of the Lord will be granted all the wonderful promises God has made through His word, like he has done with me and as he did with Abraham in Genesis 15:6. “Abraham believed the Lord and he credited it to Him as righteousness.” As I’ve traveled Georgia’s 12th district, I remind folks that we are all just stewards of what God has given us, and we must be obedient to God’s word to keep it. Psalms 24:1 tells us, “The earth is the Lord’s, and everything in it, the world, and all who live in it.” Everything belongs to God. We must ask for God’s blessing and protection- it says that in the Bible- and as we enter the Christmas season, we must all remember the importance of this day as we celebrate the birth of the savior of the world. Earlier this year, the late Billy Graham laid in honor in our Capitol. I have read his inaugural prayer as a reminder every week for the past sixteen years. I would like to share it with you now: Our Father and our God, thou hast said, “Blessed is that nation whose God is the Lord.” We recognize on this historic occasion that we are “one nation under God.” We thank Thee for this torch of faith handed to us by our forefathers. May we never let it be extinguished. Thou alone hast given us our prosperity, our freedom and our power. This faith in God is our heritage and our foundation. Thou hast warned us in the Scriptures, “If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?” As George Washington reminded us in his farewell address, morality and faith are the pillars of our society. We confess these pillars are being eroded in an increasingly materialistic and permissive society. The whole world is watching to see if the faith of our fathers will stand the trials and tests of the hour. Too long we have neglected Thy word and ignored Thy laws. Too long we have tried to solve our problems without reference to Thee. Too long we have tried to live by bread alone. We have sown to the wind and are now reaping a whirlwind of crime, division, and rebellion. And now with the wages of our sins staring us in the face, we remember Thy words, “If my people who are called by my Name shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land.” My fellow Americans, this prayer was offered on the inauguration 49 years ago. As I talk to you at this time, our nation- and many have told me- that we are at a crossroads. My prayer is this: God has given us his word and as far as me and my household, we shall worship the Lord. Thank you and God bless you! ###
11.27.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that his staff will be holding Community Office Hours across the 12th district during the month of December. These office hours offer the opportunity for constituents to receive personal assistance from Congressman Allen’s office in their local communities. There will be no formal presentation nor will Congressman Allen be in attendance. The office hours are about one-on-one visits between staff and Georgia-12 constituents. Staff will be available to assist with a number of federal issues, including problems with federal agencies, such as Social Security, Veterans Affairs, Medicare, and others. “Constituent service has always been a top priority of mine since being elected to represent Georgia's 12th district in Congress,"said Congressman Allen."My staff and I stand ready to help with issues experienced at the federal level and I am pleased to offer this opportunity for my office to provide constituents direct assistance closer to home.” Congressman Allen has permanent offices located in Richmond, Toombs, Laurens, and Bulloch counties; therefore, community office hours will not be held in these counties. Please see below for a list of Community Office Hours dates, times and locations by county: Coffee County WHEN: Tuesday, December 4 from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Douglas/Coffee County Chamber of Commerce 114 N. Peterson Avenue Douglas, GA 31533 Jeff Davis County WHEN: Tuesday, December 4 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Chamber of Commerce 95 E. Jarman Street Hazlehurst, GA 31539 Burke County WHEN: Thursday, December 6 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. WHERE: County Commission Boardroom, Burke County Courthouse 111 E. 6th Street Waynesboro, GA 30830 Effingham County WHEN: Thursday, December 6 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Effingham County Board of Commissioners Administrative Complex 601 N. Laurel Street Springfield, GA 31329 Columbia County WHEN: Thursday, December 6 from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: City of Grovetown 103 Old Wrightsboro Road Grovetown, GA 30813 Screven County WHEN: Thursday, December 6 from 2:45 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. WHERE: Screven County Courthouse, Commission Boardroom 216 Mims Road Sylvania, GA 30467 Treutlen County WHEN: Friday, December 7 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Treutlen County Commissioners Office 1830 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive Soperton, GA 30457 Montgomery County WHEN: Friday, December 7 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Montgomery County Courthouse 400 S. Railroad Avenue Mount Vernon, GA 30445 Wheeler County WHEN: Friday, December 7 from 1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Alamo City Hall 105 Commerce Street Alamo, GA 30411 Appling County WHEN: Tuesday, December 11 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Appling Courthouse Annex, Commissioners Meeting Room 69 Tippins Street Baxley, GA 31513 Tattnall County WHEN: Tuesday, December 11 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Glennville Welcome Center 136 S. Veterans Boulevard Glennville, GA 30427 Evans County WHEN: Tuesday, December 11 from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Claxton City Hall 206 W. Railroad Avenue Claxton, GA 30417 Candler County WHEN: Thursday, December 13 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Metter City Hall 49 S. Rountree St. Metter, GA 30439 Emanuel County WHEN: Thursday, December 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Emanuel County Commission Board Room 101 N. Main St. Swainsboro, GA 30401 Jenkins County WHEN: Thursday, December 13 from 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Millen City Hall 919 College Avenue Millen, GA 30442 ###
11.02.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) and Congressman Jody Hice (GA-10) yesterday hosted a World War II veterans’ appreciation event featuring a documentary about the Honor Flight program, a non-profit organization that transports veterans to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect on their service at their respective memorials. In attendance were World War II veterans, family members of veterans, Grovetown High School JROTC members, local school officials, and representatives from the Georgia War Veterans Nursing Home. Congressmen Allen and Hice presented certificates of special recognition to local veterans for their bravery in World War II. “Our World War II veterans are amongst the bravest heroes this nation has ever seen and they truly represent the Greatest Generation,” said Congressman Allen. “With many Grovetown High School JROTC students in attendance, it was a blessing to see these young men and women interact and learn from veterans who have fought to defend the freedoms that we hold so dear as they consider service in the various branches of the United States Armed Forces. I am beyond humbled to have had the opportunity to host yesterday’s event alongside my friend and colleague, Congressman Jody Hice – and I’d like to thank all of those in attendance and Grovetown High School for opening their doors to our community and our local World War II veterans.” “Each one of the World War II veterans who was honored in yesterday’s appreciation event is a hero,” said Congressman Hice. “The veterans of World War II, rightfully known as the Greatest Generation, are a universal symbol of the patriotic pride that beats loudly in every single American heart, and it’s deeply humbling to recognize local warriors for their service to our country. Their dedication to the uniform has inspired young people today to follow in their footsteps to risk everything on behalf of the American people, and I’m forever grateful to those who fought to maintain and strengthen the freedoms we still enjoy to this day." Photos from yesterday's event can be found below: ###
10.24.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement today after President Trump signed H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, into law. H.R. 6, which passed in the House with Congressman Allen’s support, is comprehensive, bipartisan legislation aimed at addressing the opioid epidemic and marks the most significant congressional effort against a single drug crisis in history. “In too many families, in too many neighborhoods, and in too many communities throughout our country, there is an unthinkable sense of pain and loss that stems from the opioid crisis. My colleagues and I have taken proactive steps to bring opioid addiction out of the shadows, prevent further abuse, and assist those currently dealing with this fatal addiction by passing sweeping opioid legislation in the House and Senate, so that President Trump could sign it into law today,” said Congressman Allen. “I am proud of our efforts to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect communities, and bolster the fight against deadly illicit drugs and I know that this legislation will save lives and have a lasting impact on American families.” The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act does the following: Improves and expands access to treatment and recovery services Establishes comprehensive opioid recovery centers Improves data to identify and help at-risk patients and families Gives law enforcement tools to get dangerous drugs out of our communities Cracks down on foreign shipments of illicit drugs ###
10.18.2018	U.S. Congressmen Rick W. Allen (GA-12) and Jody Hice (GA-10) will host a veterans’ appreciation event featuring a documentary about the Honor Flight program, a non-profit organization that transports our World War II heroes to Washington, D.C. to visit and reflect on their service at their respective memorials. The event will be held at 9:30 a.m. on Thursday, November 1st at Grovetown High School, where the Congressmen will present certificates of special recognition to local veterans for their bravery during World War II. “Our World War II veterans in Georgia are amongst the bravest heroes that this world has ever seen,”said Congressman Rick Allen.“I am truly humbled to host this event alongside my friend and colleague, Congressman Hice, to recognize the sacrifice and unrivaled selflessness of our nation’s greatest generation.” “World War II veterans and members of the Greatest Generation are a group of individuals full of towering achievement and modest demeanor,” said Congressman Hice. “It is my honor and privilege to host this event, which honors WWII veterans for their sacrifice and service to our nation. I truly look forward to hearing their stories and to showing my appreciation to these brave men and women.” The event is open to World War II veterans and their families, as well as students from the Grovetown High School ROTC program. Seating is limited, and reservations are required. To RSVP, veterans may contact Congressman Allen’s Augusta District Office at (706) 228-1980 and are asked to provide their name, branch, and rank of service. The deadline to register for the ceremony is Tuesday, October 30, 2018. What: Veterans Appreciation Event Who: Congressmen Rick Allen and Jody Hice, World War II veterans, family members of veterans, and Grovetown High School ROTC members When: Thursday, November 1, 2018 from 9:30 a.m. – 11:30 a.m. Where: Grovetown High School 2010 Warrior Way Grovetown, GA 30813 ###
10.10.2018	Late yesterday, all sixteen Members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation sent a letter to President Donald Trump requesting expedited emergency resources to aid counties in Georgia expected to be impacted by Hurricane Michael. Earlier this morning, Hurricane Michael was upgraded to a Category 4 storm and is expected to bring damaging winds, rain, and flooding throughout the Southeast. Yesterday, based on the latest forecast for Hurricane Michael and acting on a recommendation from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency (GEMA/HS) officials, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal issued an emergency declaration for 92 Georgia counties, making all state resources available to local governments and entities within the impacted area of the hurricane. “We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael,” wrote the Members. “As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days.” Below is the full text of the letter: October 09, 2018 President Donald J. Trump The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: "We write in full support of Governor Nathan Deal’s request for an emergency declaration for the state of Georgia in anticipation of Hurricane Michael. As the current projections indicate, this major hurricane will significantly impact Georgia communities, and we urge you to approve requests to ensure that full federal resources are made available for counties currently under the declaration and those that may be determined to be in need of emergency federal assistance in the coming days. Hurricane Michael has been classified as a Category 3 hurricane and will cause incredible devastation to portions of the Gulf Coast of the United States. Given the potential catastrophic impact that this hurricane may have on Georgia, the state and federal government must work together in order to help reduce the potential loss of life and destruction of property. As we recently witnessed with Hurricane Florence in North Carolina and South Carolina, preparation and up-front resources are paramount in mitigating the impacts of the storm and providing quick response in its aftermath. We thank you for your support and ask for your continued support and assistance in providing the resources necessary to ensure the safety of Georgians. Sincerely, Senator Johnny Isakson Senator David Perdue Representative Earl L. ‘Buddy’ Carter Representative Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. Representative A. Drew Ferguson, IV DMD Representative Henry C. “Hank” Johnson, Jr. Representative John Lewis Representative Karen Handel Representative Rob Woodall Representative Austin Scott Representative Doug Collins Representative Jody Hice Representative Barry Loudermilk Representative Rick W. Allen Representative David Scott Representative Tom Graves ###
09.28.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) spoke on the House floor today in support of “Tax Reform 2.0,” a three bill package intended to build upon the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into law in December of 2017. Congressman Allen voted in support of "Tax Reform 2.0," legislation which includes H.R. 6760, the Protecting Family and Small Business Tax Cuts Act, H.R. 6757, the Family Savings Act, and H.R. 6756, the American Innovation Act. Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and thank you Mr. Chairman for your leadership on this important bill, and yes, I came from the small business world and let me tell you, in my district, the small businesses are back! I am proud to support Tax Reform 2.0, legislation that will build upon the tremendous success of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into law last year. After 31 years under an old, outdated, and burdensome tax code that stifled our economy and plagued our job creators, America simply needed a change. I am happy to say that we delivered on our promise of comprehensive tax reform to the American people and we are seeing new levels of economic growth and optimism around the country—and we’re not done yet. In the month of August alone, Georgia added over 12,000 jobs and the unemployment rate fell [to] 3.8% - and we are committed to keeping this momentum going. Tax Reform 2.0 will lock in the middle-class and small business tax cuts permanently, allow families to more easily save their hard-earned money for retirement, help local businesses provide retirement plans to workers, promote start-up businesses, and much more. As cosponsor of Tax Reform 2.0, I encourage all of my colleagues to join me today in supporting this important legislation that will unleash our economy and our economic engine that is the American family and small business. And with that, I yield back.
09.27.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement today after Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power, and Dalton Utilities, the four co-owners of the Plant Vogtle nuclear expansion project, successfully reached an agreement to continue the construction of two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years. “I applaud Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power, and Dalton Utilities for reaching an agreement to continue with the construction of Units 3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle. I know that today’s decision was not one made lightly, and I thank them for their commitment to continued construction, for staying the course, and negotiating a solution that works for all parties. I truly believe that moving forward with the project continues the future of nuclear power in America and I look forward to Units 3 and 4 coming online as soon as possible.” Background: After Westinghouse declared bankruptcy more than a year ago, Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power, and Dalton Utilities made the decision to move forward with construction of two new nuclear reactors at Plant Vogtle, located in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. Southern Nuclear, a subsidiary of Southern Company, is now overseeing construction. Additionally, earlier in the year, Congress, with Congressman Allen’s support, extended the Nuclear Production Tax Credit, an important provision to the future of new nuclear. ###
09.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the conference report to H.R. 5895, an essential spending package for Fiscal Year 2019 that funds portions of the government, including Energy and Water Development, the Legislative Branch, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs. This bill will now head to the President’s desk to be signed into law. “Since being elected to Congress, I have long advocated for getting our broken appropriations process back to regular order, and with today’s passage of three essential funding bills, we have taken a step in the right direction of fulfilling our constitutional obligation,” said Congressman Allen. “This legislation funds critical missions here in the 12th District and surrounding counties, including the work being done at Savannah River Site, deepening the Port of Savannah, and $99 million for a Cyber Instructional Facility and Network Center at Fort Gordon, furthering the transition of U.S. Army Cyber Command to Georgia. I will continue to do my part at the federal level to safeguard funds for the many priorities of our area.” The conference report to H.R. 5895 passed by a vote of 377-20 in the House of Representatives and does the following: Appropriates $99 million for a Cyber Instructional Facility and Network Center at Fort Gordon, as authorized in the FY19 NDAA which was signed into law by President Trump Funds critical missions at Savannah River Site Provides $86.5 billion for VA programs including VA medical care, processing disability claims, VA construction, and the new VA electronic health record system Provides significant funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project ###
09.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after attending and delivering his opening statement at the first public meeting of the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee. Congressman Allen was selected as one of two Republican conferees to represent the House Education and Workforce Committee, one committee of jurisdiction, during the conference process on the 2018 Farm Bill. “Yesterday’s meeting of the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Committee was about members of the House and Senate coming together to discuss some of the underlying priorities that we hope to maintain in the final version of the bill. With the current farm bill set to expire on September 30, it is critical that we work in a timely, but diligent manner throughout this process. We must deliver certainty and a strong safety net for our farming families across America, as well as make strides to get America back to work. I am looking forward to working with all of my colleagues on the conference committee over the next few weeks as we negotiate a bold and effective farm bill for President Trump to sign into law.” To see Congressman Allen’s opening statement, please click here. Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) said the following: “Yesterday my colleagues in the House and Senate highlighted the urgency in farm and ranch country and just how desperate times are as net farm income is expected to fall again this year. I’m thankful to have Rick on the conference committee as a strong advocate and critical voice for production agriculture in this farm bill conference. We still have a lot of work to do, but I believe we can and must get this done on time.” ###
09.05.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) voted in support of H.R. 1635, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act, today, which passed in the House by a vote of 406-4. H.R. 1635 ensures that federal student aid recipients receive annual counseling and detailed loan information to assist them in making sound financial decisions when it comes to borrowing and repaying student loans. Congressman Allen offered an amendment to the bill that would allow institutions to provide additional financial counseling above what is already provided for in the bill. It passed by unanimous consent and was included in the final legislation. *Rep. Allen speaks on House floor in support of H.R. 1635* Thank you, Mr. Speaker, and thank you Chairman Guthrie for your work on this important legislation. I rise today in strong support of H.R. 1635, the Empowering Students through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act. As the father of four and a grandfather of 12 with one on the way, I understand the anxiety that rising education costs can have on American families. Students go to school to get a job – not to wrangle with the federal government over student loans. With student loan debt climbing over $1.5 trillion nationwide, we must do more to ensure students are aware of the financial obligations of accepting a federal student loan. With over 40 years of business experience, I’ve applied for loans, I’ve provided the business plan and performance that I can repay those loans, and over time – I’ve done just that. However, in education, many students and families are not receiving the necessary information about their loans and grants in order to make responsible financial choices. I want students and families to clearly understand that just because the federal government will give you a loan – you do not have to take the full amount. The less loans you take out – the less you have to pay back. H.R. 1635 addresses the lack of information provided for those taking out student loans. Students and families will now receive counseling every year and detailed loan information so that students have sound decision-making tools when it comes to borrowing and repaying student loans. As a cosponsor of H.R. 1635, I was also proud to introduce an amendment that will allow any eligible institution to provide additional information and counseling services to federal student aid recipients. In my district, hardly a day goes by that I don’t run into a former student who asks me, “What am I going to do about their student loan debt?” Once I discover the consequences of their decisions, it makes me more supportive of this legislation so that these young people can understand exactly what they’re getting in to. We owe it these American students to pass the legislation before us today and I hope my colleagues will join me in supporting H.R. 1635. With that, I yield back. ###
08.21.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that his staff will be holding Community Office Hours across the 12th district during the month of September. These office hours offer the opportunity for constituents to receive personal assistance from Congressman Allen’s office in their local communities. There will be no formal presentation nor will Congressman Allen be in attendance. The office hours are about one-on-one visits between staff and GA-12 constituents. Staff will be available to assist with a number of federal issues, including problems with federal agencies, such as Social Security, Veterans Affairs, Medicare, and others. Congressman Allen stated, “Constituent service has always been a top priority of mine since being elected to Congress, and my staff and I stand ready to help with issues experienced at the federal level. I am pleased to offer this opportunity for my office to provide constituents direct assistance closer to home.” Congressman Allen has permanent offices located in Richmond, Toombs, Laurens, and Bulloch counties; therefore, community office hours will not be held in these counties. Please see below for a list of Community Office Hours dates, times and locations by county: Coffee County WHEN: Tuesday, September 4 from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Douglas/Coffee County Chamber of Commerce 114 N. Peterson Avenue Douglas, GA 31533 Jeff Davis County WHEN: Tuesday, September 4 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Chamber of Commerce 95 E. Jarman Street Hazlehurst, GA 31539 Burke County WHEN: Thursday, September 6 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. WHERE: County Commission Boardroom, Burke County Courthouse 111 E. 6th Street Waynesboro, GA 30830 Effingham County WHEN: Thursday, September 6 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Effingham County Board of Commissioners Administrative Complex 601 N. Laurel Street Springfield, GA 31329 Columbia County WHEN: Thursday, September 6 from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: City of Grovetown 103 Old Wrightsboro Road Grovetown, GA 30813 Screven County WHEN: Thursday, September 6 from 2:45 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. WHERE: Screven County Courthouse, Commission Boardroom 216 Mims Road Sylvania, GA 30467 Treutlen County WHEN: Friday, September 7 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Treutlen County Commissioners Office 1830 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive Soperton, GA 30457 Montgomery County WHEN: Friday, September 7 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Montgomery County Courthouse 400 S. Railroad Avenue Mount Vernon, GA 30445 Wheeler County WHEN: Friday, September 7 from 1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Alamo City Hall 105 Commerce Street Alamo, GA 30411 Candler County WHEN: Thursday, September 13 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Metter City Hall 49 S. Rountree St. Metter, GA 30439 Emanuel County WHEN: Thursday, September 13 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. WHERE: Emanuel County Commission Board Room 101 N. Main St. Swainsboro, GA 30401 Jenkins County WHEN: Thursday, September 13 from 3:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. WHERE: Millen City Hall 919 College Avenue Millen, GA 30442 Appling County WHEN: Wednesday, September 26 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Appling Courthouse Annex Commissioners Meeting Room 69 Tippins Street Baxley, GA 31513 Tattnall County WHEN: Wednesday, September 26 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Glennville Welcome Center 136 S. Veterans Boulevard Glennville, GA 30427 Evans County WHEN: Wednesday, September 26 from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Claxton City Hall 206 W. Railroad Avenue Claxton, GA 30417 ###
08.15.2018	AUGUSTA, GA – U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that he will be hosting Georgia’s 12th District Fall Academy Day on Saturday, September 8, 2018 from 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Congressman Allen stated, “As many young people begin thinking about their future, I am honored to host an Academy Day for Georgia-12 constituents who are interested in attending one of our five service academies. This great event offers a special opportunity for young men and women from Georgia’s 12th District to receive an academy overview and learn more about the application and nomination process from admissions liaisons who will be in attendance. I am looking forward to hosting this year’s event and meeting many of the bright individuals who are interested in serving our country and hoping to learn more about our honorable service academies.” WHAT: Georgia’s 12th District Fall Academy Day hosted by Rep. Rick W. Allen WHEN: Saturday, September 8, 2018 10:00 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. WHERE: Augusta University University Hall, Room 170 2500 Walton Way Augusta, Georgia 30904 Please RSVP by August 31, 2018 to Paul Lynch at Paul.Lynch@mail.house.gov or call (912)-417-2117. All press/media interested in covering the event should RSVP to Carlton Norwood at Carlton.Norwood@mail.house.gov. ###
08.14.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that he will be hosting a town hall specifically for veterans on Wednesday, August 15, 2018 from 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm at the Emanuel County Veterans Center. This town hall is designed specifically to address the needs of veterans living in Georgia’s 12th district. Veterans will hear from Congressman Allen and have the opportunity to visit with him and members of his staff. They will also be able to receive assistance with casework or federal agencies such as Veterans Affairs, Social Security, Medicare, and others. If veterans are unable to make this town hall, they are encouraged to contact Paul Lynch or Megan Abbot, Constituent Services Representatives, in the Augusta District office at 706-228-1980. Congressman Allen stated, “supporting our veterans is crucial, and this town hall will serve as an opportunity to answer any questions and take steps to resolve issues our veterans may be experiencing with the federal government. These important men and women deserve all the support and resources they have earned and I am happy to host this town hall where they can voice their concerns, meet with members of my staff and receive help closer to home.” WHAT: Veterans Town Hall WHEN: Wednesday, August 15, 2018 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm WHERE: Emanuel County Veterans Center 689 Kite Road Swainsboro, Georgia 30401 ###
08.14.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) invites constituents from Toombs and Tattnall Counties to join him for “Coffee with the Congressman” on Wednesday, August 15 at 7:15am in Lyons, Georgia or on Thursday, August 16 at 8:00am in Glennville, Georgia. This event provides an opportunity for constituents to speak personally with Congressman Allen and ask questions regarding issues at the federal level and legislation before Congress. “Hearing from folks in their local communities is critical to my work on behalf of the entire 12th District. I hope constituents in Toombs County and Tattnall County will join me to share what is on their minds and the issues facing their families and businesses in the community,” said Congressman Allen. Lyons, Georgia WHAT: Coffee with Congressman Rick W. Allen WHEN: Wednesday, August 15, 2018 7:15am to 8:15am WHERE: Chatters Restaurant 600 NW Broad Street Lyons, Georgia 60436 Glennville, Georgia WHAT: Coffee with Congressman Rick W. Allen WHEN: Thursday, August 16, 2018 8:00am to 8:45am WHERE: Garden Club Center 123 N. Caswell Street Glennville, Georgia 30427 ###
08.13.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) into law today. The NDAA is an annual piece of legislation that authorizes defense spending and sets priorities for the U.S. military. “President Trump today reaffirmed his commitment to our nation’s bravest when he signed the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act into law. This year’s NDAA provides a well-deserved pay raise to our troops, the largest in nearly a decade, contains big wins for Georgia’s 12th district, including critical funding for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon, and sets bold priorities for the safety of our nation. We have once again kept our promise to the American people and ensured that our nation’s military remains the strongest in the world.” Today, President Trump signed legislation to: Provide a well-deserved 2.6% pay raise for our troops, the largest in 9 years Authorize $99 million in military construction funds for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon Extend special pay and bonuses for service members in high-demand fields Authorize $17.7 billion to rehabilitate and replace outdated Army equipment Authorize over $1.4 billion in funds for nuclear material management, environmental cleanup and construction at the Savannah River Site ###
08.01.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after President Donald Trump signed H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act into law today. Congressman Allen, a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, played an integral role in writing, marking up, and passing the legislation in the House, and attended the signing ceremony at the White House today. “As a small business owner in the construction industry for over 40 years, I have experienced firsthand just how hard it can be to find skilled and qualified workers. Today, I was honored to stand by President Trump as he signed a critical bill into law. The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act helps to change the narrative that a four-year college degree is the best option for all of our students. Our bill bolsters Americans who wish to pursue different paths, such as career and technical programs, which are leading to some of the most in-demand and high-paying jobs available today,” said Congressman Allen. "As the law of the land, this legislation will bridge the gap between our business and education communities, and I am looking forward to the renewed sense of optimism that we will see for years to come in our workforce when the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act takes effect.” White House photo from today's signing ceremony can be found below: ###
07.31.2018	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) held a telephone town hall on Monday to answer questions from residents of Georgia's 12th District. Congressman Allen gave an update on important issues facing our nation such as tax reform and our booming economy, healthcare, funding our military, veterans care, and Congress' efforts to combat the opioid crisis. For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Jimmy from Martinez asked what Congress is doing to help students with overwhelming student loan debt: Congressman Allen: "We have crafted in the [ House ] Education and Workforce Committee a new higher education bill to reauthorize higher education and that includes all of the grants and student loans. It is called the PROSPER Act. What we’re doing in the PROSPER Act is providing information to those folks seeking a higher education and giving them the resources that they need to make those decisions. One of the big problems we’ve got in the student loan process, and I know I’ve had this problem with my own children, is that they went off to college and didn’t know exactly what they might want to do in their occupation. The problem with college today is that it’s so expensive that you can’t afford to go through college and then say, well I don’t know if I want to do that and go do something else. What we’re trying to do in the PROSPER Act is identify exactly what students are interested in, provide them loans to get those degrees, and we’re already seeing a change in education out there...We’ve got 6.7 million jobs open out there today, and there is no time in history where the opportunity for young people has been greater. Everywhere I go in the district, people need workers. So what we have to do is we have to quickly get folks trained up and into the workforce. I’m all for reducing the [college] rate and making education accessible to all of our folks. We’ve got to get the cost of education down. The two things that have increased dramatically in cost in the last ten years, one is education, the other is healthcare. The government is heavily invested in both and I think that’s the reason costs are going up. I hope that helps you." David from Swainsboro asked about our nation's infrastructure, particularly in Georgia: Congressman Allen: "We’ve got some real needs, specifically in Georgia. The President wants to do an infrastructure bill and Congress wants to do an infrastructure bill. A lot of this is dealing with rural broadband and really just getting broadband and cell service throughout the country. You cannot believe how big an economic impact that will make, no matter where you live. More people are actually working online now in the workforce. I mean it’s more and more every year. We’ve got to address our infrastructure needs as far as transportation is concerned. I’ll tell you the problem with infrastructure right now is we don’t have the skilled people to do it...We’ve got 25 million people out there—work-capable people who are stuck in poverty and we want to get those folks skilled up and trained and back to work. That’s one of the things that the Farm Bill addressed and we’ve got other legislation on that. We’ve got a lot of work to do over the next five years to get our trained work force. I will tell you this too, I was at the White House [last] Thursday with the President and we had 30 of the industry reps and large companies, like Home Depot, UPS, and Fed Ex—they were all there and they signed a pledge to grow a skilled work force by 4 million workers in the next five years. That’s through apprenticeship programs and other programs to get folks back to work, get them skilled up and I’ll tell you, that was one exciting conference and one I was glad to be involved in. Those are the kinds of things we’re doing and again, I know transportation is a big part of that." Steve from Claxton asked about technical training in high school: Congressman Allen: "Over the last twenty-years, particularly the last ten years, there’s been this move to push young people into college. We’ve got $1.5 trillion in student loan debts. Those folks are encumbered with tremendous debt and those who finally graduate from college, they get out and there may be no jobs available...Whereas you can go to technical school and in five semesters, like I said, you could...have a tremendous career. Again, we address this in the Career Technical Education Reauthorization. Please call your senators and ask them to take up and pass the career technical reauthorization and that will fix a lot of those problems." After this Telephone Town Hall, the Senate-amended version of the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act passed in the House of Representatives and is now on its way to the President's desk. If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington and for the 12th District, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
07.25.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after the House passed the Senate-amended version of H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act, today. The bill will now go to the President’s desk for signature. Congressman Allen, who sits on the House Education and Workforce Committee, the committee of jurisdiction, played an integral role in drafting, marking up and passing today’s legislation. “In the construction industry, I spent forty years talking to our young people, elementary and high school students, sparking their interest in the skilled trades early. As we all know, a four-year degree is not the right fit for everyone—and oftentimes our skilled and technical jobs are among the most in-demand and high-paying in the workforce. It is time to change the narrative—and signing the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act into law will help bridge the gap between the business and education communities. If you talk to most small businesses in our community, one of their top challenges is workforce. Thanks to tax reform and our continued efforts to remove burdensome red tape on our job creators, our economy is booming, and jobs are being created every day. With this opportunity comes a more significant workforce challenge, and I made sure during the drafting process that this legislation would bring business leaders to the table to create career and technical programs for in demand jobs in our hometowns. The American Dream is right there for the taking—and when signed into law, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act will help solidify the American Dream for generations to come.” Congressman Allen also spoke on the House floor today in support of H.R. 2353. ###
07.24.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement ahead of tomorrow’s bipartisan Innovation Forum and Showcase. This event is hosted by the House Education and Workforce Committee in order to hear from innovators around the country on how they plan to address our nation’s education and workforce development challenges. Congressman Allen has been a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee since being elected to Congress and will hear testimony from Eric Parker, co-founder of theClubhou.se, located in Augusta, Georgia. “As a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, we have been working diligently to cultivate a qualified workforce that is ready to fill the jobs of today and tomorrow. To do so effectively, it is critical that we hear from some of our nation’s most talented innovators about how they are addressing these education and workforce development challenges at the local level. Augusta is in a unique position with a need to grow our cyber workforce, and I look forward to welcoming members from theClubhou.se to Washington, D.C. to hear about their ideas, innovations, and strategies currently being put to use in our community.” More information regarding tomorrow’s event can be found here and below: Panel Two (~10:40 AM) of five. Marna Stalcup – Right Brain Initiative Eric Parker – Greater Augusta Innovation Academy Kathy Carlisle – THINC College and Career Academy Annemarie Grassi – Open Doors Academy Terry Smith – Bartleby Program, Elizabethton High School To view a live webcast of the forum, please CLICK HERE. ###
07.19.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6147, legislation that contains the Fiscal Year 2019 Interior and Environment and Financial Services and General Government funding bills. “With today’s passage of H.R. 6147, my colleagues and I have secured a brighter future for our kids and grandkids with a bold, new approach to the appropriations process and government spending. In addition to the strong pro-life provisions included, the highlight of this year’s legislation is the Fund for America’s Kids and Grandkids, which safeguards 2.5% of the Financial Services and General Government portion of the bill’s total funds for future generations,” said Congressman Allen. “As the father of four and grandfather of twelve with one more on the way, we must be focused on what deficit spending means for the future and who will be burdened with the debt – and this approach forces us to do just that. Although I do not agree with every aspect of today’s legislation, we simply cannot sit back and allow future generations to be saddled with over $20 trillion of national debt.” H.R. 6147 passed by a vote of 217-199 in the House of Representatives and does the following: Establishes the Funds for America’s Kids and Grandkids, which safeguards 2.5% of the Financial Services and General Government portion of the bill’s total funds ($585 million) for future generations Fully repeals the damaging Waters of the United States rule (WOTUS) Supports the President’s proposal to reshape the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) workforce Prevents taxpayer funding for elective abortion coverage in Federal Employee Health Benefits Prevents the Multi-State Plan Program under Obamacare from offering insurance plans that include elective abortion Promotes pro-life policies in the District of Columbia ###
07.18.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after being selected to represent the House Education and Workforce Committee, one committee of jurisdiction, during the conference process on the farm bill. The House of Representatives passed the motion to go to conference on the 2018 Farm Bill today, and members of the House and Senate will soon hammer out any differences between the two prospective bills. “I am humbled to have been selected to represent the House Education and Workforce Committee during the conference process on the 2018 Farm Bill. After playing an integral role in the passage of the House version last month as a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I am looking forward to working with my colleagues in both chambers to eliminate any points of contention and bring commonsense solutions to the table,” said Congressman Allen. “During my travels through Georgia’s 12th district, I continue to hear that Congress must take action to address the economic hardships that have devastated rural America. This noteworthy step in the legislative process presents the opportunity for Congress to deliver certainty to our farming families across the nation and get America back to work. Rest assured, I will continue to stand firmly with rural America and keep Georgia priorities in mind as we work towards the ultimate goal of sending a bold and effective farm bill to the President’s desk for signature.” Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Mike Conaway (TX-11) said the following: “Today, we move one step closer to delivering a strong, new farm bill to the president’s desk on time as he has called on Congress to do. America's farmers and ranchers and rural America are struggling right now and they deserve the certainty of a strong farm bill to see them through to better times. The House has pulled together a solid team of conferees – including Rep. Allen. I’m looking forward to working with Rick, who has been a strong voice for agriculture through this process, and the rest of our House and Senate colleagues to reach a final product that helps millions of low-income Americans climb the economic ladder, while standing by our nation’s hard-working farm and ranch families.” ###
07.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement after attending the grand opening of the Georgia Cyber Center’s Hull McKnight Building in Augusta last night. The Hull McKnight building is the first of two buildings that will make up the more than $100 million cyber education and innovation complex located in the heart of downtown Augusta. “Last night’s grand opening of the Georgia Cyber Center’s Hull McKnight Building was a historic event for the city of Augusta, Georgia’s 12th district, and the state of Georgia as a whole. With U.S. Army Cyber Command’s transition to Fort Gordon, numerous tech companies and employers investing in our area, and the first class cyber education available right here in Augusta, this facility is a brainchild of our community’s needs and a beacon to the world that Augusta is on the map as a hub of cyber innovation,” said Congressman Allen. “Thank you to everyone who worked so hard to make this a reality and I’d like to congratulate Governor Nathan Deal, whose legacy will always be remembered at the Nathan Deal Campus for Innovation.” Pictures from last night’s grand opening can be found below: ###
07.10.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after President Trump nominated Judge Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of the United States to fill the seat vacated by Justice Anthony Kennedy, who announced his retirement in June. “I applaud President Trump’s nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of the United States last night. Judge Kavanagh has devoted his life to the service of others and has a proven track record of upholding the constitutional values that our nation was founded upon,” said Congressman Allen. “I have no doubt that Judge Kavanaugh will serve the Supreme Court and the American people with dignity and respect, and I urge all of my colleagues in the Senate to move swiftly through the confirmation process.” ###
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON – Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 6157, the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, an annual piece of legislation that appropriates funds to the Department of Defense to ensure that our Armed Forces are fully equipped to meet the current threats to our nation by a vote of 359-49. U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) introduced a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 6157 with Congressman Jamie Raskin (MD-08). The amendment allocates $10,000,000 to the Defense POW (Prisoner of War)/Missing Persons Accounting Agency to assist in identifying unclaimed remains that have been missing since the Korean conflict, and is completely offset by reducing spending in other accounts. The Allen/Raskin Amendment passed with unanimous bipartisan support. Congressman Allen spoke on the House floor in support of the amendment, and excerpts of his speech can be found below. To view his full remarks, please CLICK HERE. “As of today, there are almost 7,700 total personnel missing and unaccounted for since the Korean conflict. One of those still unaccounted for is Private First Class Ivan Roberts, a proud native of Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. Although I never had the opportunity to meet Private First Class Roberts, I was able to meet his family and loved ones at a recent Memorial Ceremony in his honor – and I know he was a beloved hero and patriot whose family wants peace and closure. As you may know, in the recent historic summit between President Trump and North Korea’s Kim Jong Un, President Trump asked that North Korea return remains of U.S. service members lost in the Korean War—and Kim Jong Un agreed. There are currently over 200 missing service members in the process of being returned to the United States. My colleague and I want to ensure that the Defense POW/Missing Persons Accounting Agency has the resources it needs to identify the remains and carry out this important mission so that families can finally find an eternal resting place for their loved ones. I’d like to thank my colleague from Maryland, Congressman Jamie Raskin, for joining me in introducing this important amendment.” Congressman Jamie Raskin said the following about the amendment, “Thousands of military personnel remain unaccounted for from the Korean War. I am proud to work with my colleague, Mr. Allen, on a bipartisan basis to ensure that the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency has sufficient resources to fulfill our national responsibility to provide a full accounting to their families and loved ones of those left behind on the field of battle.” ###
06.27.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after voting against H.R. 6136, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, which failed in the House of Representatives today by a vote of 121-301. “I’ve said it before and I will say it again – I believe our immigration system is broken, but the legislation brought before the House today did not go far enough to address the significant issues we are facing at our borders,” said Congressman Allen. “Moving forward, we must come together to enact substantive changes to our immigration laws to end chain migration, reform our agricultural worker visa program, and transition to a merit-based immigration system. Simply put, we need solutions that work for America.” ###
06.22.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives failed to pass H.R. 4760, the Securing America’s Future Act, which would enact meaningful reforms to our nation’s immigration policies. “Simply put, I believe our nation’s immigration system is broken, and the failure of today’s vote to fund the wall, end chain migration, support merit-based immigration and reform our agricultural worker visa program is beyond disappointing. Moving forward, we must come together on legislation that protects the four pillars President Trump outlined in his immigration plan to fix our broken immigration system and enact meaningful solutions that work for our nation,” said Congressman Allen. “Additionally, I’d like to thank President Trump for his leadership in signing an executive order to end the separation of families at the border. It is imperative that Congress votes to enact a permanent legislative fix as soon as possible.” President Trump’s four pillar immigration plan, which was included in H.R. 4760, is as follows: The first pillar would provide a fix for Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals (DACA) who were brought here by their parents at a young age. Those who meet certain education or work requirements and show good moral character will be able to pursue the process already in place for those wanting to immigrate to America. The second pillar would fully secure the border by building a wall on the Southern border. It would also close the loopholes that criminals take advantage of to enter the country and ends “catch and release.” The third pillar simply ends the visa lottery system – a program that hands out green cards with no regard for merit or employment. The fourth pillar would end chain migration. H.R. 4760 failed to pass in the House of Representatives by a vote of 193-231. ###
06.22.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after President Donald Trump recommended merging the Department of Education and the Department of Labor as an overall reorganization of the federal government. “President Trump’s proposal to reorganize the executive branch and merge the Departments of Education and Labor clearly underscores the correlation between education and workforce development, a correlation I have been a strong advocate for during my time in Congress. To ensure that we have the workforce we need, the education community and business community must be on the same page. As a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, I fully support the President’s decision to make this significant change. As we near the six month anniversary of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act being signed into law, we are seeing small business optimism at an all-time high, increased pay checks for hard working Americans and for the first time ever, more job openings than job seekers. But with this economic success comes a more desperate need for a qualified workforce. We have a responsibility to educate our nation’s youth to ensure that they are ready to fill the jobs of today and tomorrow. I applaud President Trump’s vision for these departments and I hope to see this proposal become a reality in the near future.” ###
06.22.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) spoke on the House floor this morning in support of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, comprehensive legislation that would provide for opioid use disorder prevention, recovery, and treatment. H.R. 6 passed in the House of Representatives today with overwhelming bipartisan support by a vote of 369-14. “I rise today in support of H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act-- and I want to thank Chairman Walden and the entire Energy and Commerce Committee for their work on this important legislation. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act is yet another bipartisan effort aimed at preventing further opioid abuse and assisting those currently dealing with this addiction. This legislation will strengthen our efforts to advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and bolster the fight against deadly illicit drugs. We have made meaningful progress in our fight against the opioid epidemic throughout the country by passing over 50 bills in the House – but our work is far from over. No community is immune from this crisis, and in 2016 alone, over 1,300 Georgians lost their lives to opioid abuse...many of them in my community, my closest friends, have had to deal with this. Our Senate colleagues should take note of the important work we have done here in the House over the past two weeks to combat this process and I urge all of my colleagues to support H.R. 6, and with that, I yield back.” ###
06.21.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, better known as the Farm Bill. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Allen played an integral role in writing and marking up the legislation during the committee process before the bill was brought to the House floor for a full vote by the House of Representatives. “Today’s successful passage of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act brings us yet another step closer to securing a brighter future for our American farmers,” said Congressman Allen. “I’ve heard time and again that Congress must take action to address the economic hardships that have devastated rural America over the past five years, and with the passage of the farm bill, we have delivered certainty and commonsense solutions for our farming families. Additionally, as we continue to see our economy grow with over six million available jobs in this country, H.R. 2 provides those currently enrolled in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program with opportunities to prepare for gainful employment through education, training, or transitioning straight into the workforce, an opportunity that should be available to all Americans,” continued Allen. “I believe that this generation has more opportunities than any before, and I will continue to stand firmly with rural America to implement policies that will allow all to achieve the American Dream.” The Agriculture and Nutrition Act addresses a variety of issues under the House Agriculture Committee’s jurisdiction, including: Farm Policy: The farm bill maintains and improves Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) through 2023 and allows farmers to make a new election between the two programs. Crop insurance is protected in this bill, with some improvements to the program. In addition, the farm bill reauthorizes marketing and promotion programs that support specialty crops. Specifically, it enacts key changes and maintains funding for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) and the Specialty Crop Block Grant program. Trade: H.R. 2 supports our farmers and ranchers by authorizing and restoring funding for vital tools for trade promotion and market development. In addition, the bill maintains legal authority for the secretary to provide assistance against unfair foreign trading practices. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP): The SNAP program is our nation’s chief nutrition program and the farm bill strengthens existing work requirements and offers other opportunities for SNAP recipients to learn the skills necessary for gainful employment. Rural Development: The bill authorizes annual funds for rural broadband and requires USDA to establish modern broadband standards. It also strengthens rural development initiatives to ensure our rural areas have opportunity for jobs and growth. ###
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) spoke on the House floor today as the House of Representatives begins consideration of a host of opioid-related bills to combat the opioid crisis that is currently plaguing communities all across the nation. “In America today, in every state, in too many families, there is a profound sense of pain, loss, and suffering caused by the horrendous opioid crisis. And unfortunately, my home state of Georgia is not immune to this growing epidemic. Many of my closest friends have lost family members or children and the question is always, why? How can this happen? From 1999 to 2014, prescription opioid deaths increased tenfold in Georgia, and we saw over 500 deaths in 2015 as a result of opioid abuse. Over the next few weeks, my colleagues and I in the House of Representatives are bringing opioid addiction out of the shadows and voting on over fifty pieces of legislation to prevent further opioid abuse and assist those currently dealing with addiction. We must take proactive steps to fight opioid addiction and focus on treating the mind, body, and most important in my view, the spirit. The road to recovery may be long and hard fought, but the American will is as strong as ever and shall prevail. We are at war with drugs, and we must defeat this enemy. I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting the nearly 40 opioid-related bills before this House this week – America needs us. And with that, I yield back.” ###
06.12.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5895 last week, a critical spending package for Fiscal Year 2019 that appropriates funds for Energy and Water Development, the Legislative Branch, and Military Construction/Veterans Affairs. “Last week’s passage of the first three spending bills for Fiscal Year 2019 was a huge win for the people of Georgia’s 12th Congressional District - and a step in the right direction to getting our appropriations process back to regular order. This legislation funds a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon, supports the critical missions of Savannah River Site, and ensures that our veterans receive the best possible care after their service. I was happy to do my part at the federal level to support the many priorities of Georgia-12 and the surrounding areas.” H.R. 5895 passed by a vote of 235-179 in the House of Representatives and does the following: Appropriates $99 million for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon, as authorized in the FY19 House-passed NDAA Funds critical missions at Savannah River Site Provides $85.3 billion for VA programs including VA medical care, processing disability claims, VA construction, and the new VA electronic health record system Provides significant funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project ###
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON – Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) held a telephone town hall last week to answer questions from residents of Georgia’s 12th District. Congressman Allen gave an update on important issues facing our nation such as tax reform, funding our military, deregulation efforts, and President Trump’s first five hundred days in office. For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Linda from Grovetown asked what Congress is doing to help students with staggering student loan debt: Congressman Allen: “We [are] reauthoriz[ing] higher education through the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success, and Prosperity through Education Reform (PROSPER) Act. This is going to help more Americans by simplifying and improving student aid…empowering students and families to make informed decisions and ensuring strong accountability and limiting the federal role…What we have to do is give students more options and allow them to look at programs that will get them into the workplace much earlier. The PROSPER Act has passed through committee, but it has not been brought to the House floor for a vote… we need to get it there because we have 6.5 million jobs open in this country and as I said before, for the first time ever we have more jobs available than people seeking jobs. This is one of the best times in history for young people to get upward mobility in the workforce right out of high school.” Glenda from Statesboro asked about the paperwork process at the VA: Congressman Allen: “I’ll be honest; this comes up all the time. Our Chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee hears it as well and unfortunately, it is the government red tape and bureaucracy. One of the things we have done is attack this type of red tape on our agencies, but you would not believe the amount of push-back we get. We will continue working to improve this process at the VA.” Mike from Augusta asked what we have done to protect our power grid from threats across the world: Congressman Allen: “I can share some of this with you, but a lot of what I know is classified information. As you know the Department of Energy is in charge of all of this, and they are collaborating with the Department of Defense and we’re upping our game. I feel good about what is going on as the Secretary [of Energy] was just down in our district, and we had a nice conversation at the Savannah River Site... We are collaborating with the Department of Defense, and I assure you we are in a better position than we were yesterday.” Betty asked about Social Security: Congressman Allen: “I’ve got some good news for you, and it’s news I have not been able to give in the last eight years… because of President Trump’s policies, the economy has grown over three percent. With this growth, we will be able to increase Social Security benefits by two percent, and I feel sure that in coming years there will be another... As I explain on my calls and in the district, all of this is tied to the growth of the economy. And for about eight years, we had a stagnant economy, but we think with continued work in this Congress and with President Trump, we are going to see increased benefits in the future.” Graham from Metter asked what we are doing about Obamacare: Congressman Allen: "As far as healthcare is concerned, we have a lot of work to do. I have had a lot of meetings with folks from the district, and we’ve discussed various ways to fix this problem… but unfortunately, our healthcare bill did not pass as it failed by one vote. That would have fixed the problem as we were going to block grant [funds to the state]. This top down bureaucratic system is not working. We pay twice as much as any developed nation. We are over spending by twenty percent on healthcare, and growing. This is not sustainable. We have to bring in all groups and come up with solutions. We have solutions, but we’ve got to pass them. I believe that if we continue this process that things will improve, as we have met with the President and his [Department of Health and Human Services] Secretary. There is tremendous opposition to what we are trying to do here. Obamacare is imploding as we speak...we are working on that and we are going to fix [healthcare].” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington and for the 12th District, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
06.08.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3, the Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act, a rescission package proposed by President Donald Trump to cut nearly $15 billion dollars in wasteful government spending. “Working my way through college, I learned the value of a dollar, and as a businessman and family man, I learned the importance of balancing a budget. For too many politicians in Washington, these are not lessons to live by, but rather lessons to be ignored. But last night, my colleagues and I in the House of Representatives voted to address Washington’s out-of-control spending habits and rein in our ever growing national debt. The rescission package proposed by President Trump cuts funding to government programs that oftentimes goes unspent. With our economy growing, unemployment declining, and over 6 million jobs available in America today, we have an obligation to ensure that our children and grandchildren have the same, if not a greater opportunity than generations before to experience the American dream. Leaving an insurmountable national debt in their hands makes that nearly impossible and is simply unacceptable. I thank President Trump and my fellow members of the House for helping restore fiscal sanity to Washington and I will continue to urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly in passing H.R. 3.” The Spending Cuts to Expired and Unnecessary Programs Act passed in the House of Representatives last night by a vote of 210-206. ###
05.24.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 5515, the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) today by a bipartisan vote of 351-66. The NDAA is an annual piece of legislation that authorizes defense spending and sets priorities for the U.S. military. “It is Congress’ constitutional obligation to provide for the common defense, and with today’s passage of the National Defense Authorization Act, we have done our duty in the House of Representatives to fund our troops, keep America safe and restore our military readiness. H.R 5515 authorizes $700 billion in defense spending for the upcoming fiscal year and sets bold priorities for our military – including replacing equipment, rebuilding infrastructure, and the largest pay raise for our troops in over nine years. Specific to Georgia-12, this important legislation authorizes $99 million in military construction funds for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon, furthering the move of U.S. Army Cyber Command to Georgia. It also authorizes about $1.5 billion in funds for nuclear material management, environmental cleanup, and construction at the Savannah River Site. I strongly believe that the annual National Defense Authorization Act is one of the most important votes I take in Congress each year. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to do their constitutional duty by taking up the NDAA and I look forward to seeing this critical national security bill signed into law by President Trump.” Today, Congressman Allen supported efforts to: Provide a well-deserved 2.6% pay raise for our troops, the largest in 9 years Authorize $99 million in military construction funds for a Cyber Instructional Facility at Fort Gordon Extend special pay and bonuses for Service members in high-demand fields Authorize $18.6 billion to rehabilitate and replace outdated Army equipment Authorize $1.5 billion in funds for nuclear material management, environmental cleanup and construction at the Savannah River Site For further details on the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act, please CLICK HERE. ###
05.22.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, legislation that rolls back harmful regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act on small and mid-size banks. The bill will now be sent to the President’s desk for signature. “Today is an exciting day for our financial sector and our local community banks as we eliminate some of the harmful regulations imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act, President Obama’s extremely burdensome financial legislation,” said Congressman Allen. “Community banks’ doors are shuttering, bankers’ abilities to lend are being strangled by Dodd-Frank, small business owners are unable to build or expand their business, and while traveling Georgia’s 12th district, I have heard time and again that Dodd-Frank must go. Consumers are facing more red-tape than ever when attempting to work with a bank or credit union and are finding it increasingly difficult to access credit. While this bill isn’t perfect, we could not miss an opportunity to get banks back in the business of lending and allow our community banks of all sizes to return to the personalized level of service that consumers deserve. ” S. 2155 passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 258-159. ###
05.21.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3946, legislation sponsored by Congressman Allen to rename the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) community-based outpatient clinic in Statesboro, Georgia, the “Ray Hendrix Veterans Clinic.” The bill was voted on this afternoon under a suspension of the rules and passed with unanimous support. “With today’s successful passage of H.R. 3946, renaming the Statesboro VA Clinic after Sergeant Major Ray Hendrix is one step closer to becoming reality. As a lifelong resident of Georgia’s 12th district and beloved veteran, I cannot think of a better or more deserving man to have his service to our nation and his community honored at the local VA Clinic he fought to establish in Statesboro. I’d like to thank all of my colleagues in the House of Representatives for joining me in supporting this legislation and I look forward to seeing this bill pass the Senate and signed into law. Sergeant Major Ray Hendrix’s legacy and dedication will live on with the quality care the Statesboro VA Clinic, soon to be the Ray Hendrix Veterans Clinic, will continue to provide to our nation’s bravest.” To view my remarks on the House floor, please CLICK HERE.
05.18.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, better known as the Farm Bill, failed to garner the necessary support on the House floor today. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Allen played an integral role in writing and marking up the legislation in the committee process before the bill was brought to the House floor for a full vote by the House of Representatives. “Today is a tough day not only for the American farmer, but for America. My colleagues and I in the House of Representatives had the opportunity to provide a brighter future for our agricultural producers across the country and those struggling to make ends meet. Instead, some members chose to play partisan politics and the bill failed. Those of us on the House Agriculture Committee worked diligently to craft a farm bill that works for our farmers and makes strides to fill the over six million jobs open in America. Facing a 52% decline in net farm income, our producers nationwide have had their backs against the wall for far too long and they deserve better. While I am disappointed in today’s outcome, I will not stop fighting for rural America to ensure that their needs and concerns are met with open ears and bold action during my time in Congress.” Due to procedural motions, the House of Representatives may reconsider the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 at a later date. ###
05.17.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga-12) announced today that his staff will be holding Community Office Hours across the 12th district during the month of June. These office hours offer the opportunity for constituents to receive personal assistance from Congressman Allen’s office in their local communities. There will be no formal presentation nor will Congressman Allen be in attendance. The office hours are about one-on-one visits between staff and GA-12 constituents. Staff will be available to assist with a number of federal issues, including problems with federal agencies, such as Social Security, Veterans Affairs, Medicare, and others. Congressman Allen stated, “Constituent service has always been a top priority of mine since being elected to Congress, and my staff and I stand ready to help with issues experienced at the federal level. I am pleased to offer this opportunity for my office to provide constituents direct assistance closer to home.” We do not hold community office hours in Richmond, Toombs, Laurens, or Bulloch counties due to the fact that we have permanent offices located there. Please see below for a list of Community Office Hours dates, times and locations by county: Treutlen County WHEN: Friday, June 1 from 9:00 a.m. to 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Treutlen County Commissioners Office 1830 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive Soperton, GA 30457 Montgomery County WHEN: Friday, June 1 from 11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Montgomery County Courthouse 400 S. Railroad Avenue Mount Vernon, GA 30445 Wheeler County WHEN: Friday, June 1 from 1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Alamo City Hall 105 Commerce Street Alamo, GA 30411 Coffee County WHEN: Tuesday, June 5 from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. WHERE: Douglas/Coffee County Chamber of Commerce 114 N. Peterson Avenue Douglas, GA 31533 Jeff Davis County WHEN: Tuesday, June 5 from 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Chamber of Commerce 95 E. Jarman Street Hazlehurst, GA 31539 Burke County WHEN: Thursday, June 7 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. WHERE: County Commission Boardroom, Burke County Courthouse 111 E. 6th Street Waynesboro, GA 30830 Effingham County WHEN: Thursday, June 7 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Effingham County Board of Commissioners Administrative Complex 601 N. Laurel Street Springfield, GA 31329 Columbia County WHEN: Thursday, June 7 from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: City of Grovetown 103 Old Wrightsboro Road Grovetown, GA 30813 Screven County WHEN: Thursday, June 7 from 2:45 p.m. to 4:15 p.m. WHERE: Screven County Courthouse, Commission Boardroom 216 Mims Road Sylvania, GA 30467 Appling County WHEN: Tuesday, June 12 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Appling Courthouse Annex Commissioners Meeting Room 69 Tippins Street Baxley, GA 31513 Tattnall County WHEN: Tuesday, June 12 from 12:30 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. WHERE: Glennville Welcome Center 136 S. Veterans Boulevard Glennville, GA 30427 Evans County WHEN: Tuesday, June 12 from 2:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. WHERE: Claxton City Hall 206 W. Railroad Avenue Claxton, GA 30417 Candler County WHEN: Thursday, June 14 from 9:30 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Metter City Hall 49 S. Rountree St. Metter, GA 30439 Emanuel County WHEN: Thursday, June 14 from 12:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. WHERE: Emanuel County Commission Board Room 101 N. Main St. Swainsboro, GA 30401 Jenkins County WHEN: Thursday, June 14 from 3:30 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. WHERE: Millen City Hall 919 College Avenue Millen, GA 30442 ###
05.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after Department of Energy Secretary Rick Perry executed a waiver to conclude construction of the Mixed-Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) at Savannah River Site. Additionally, the National Nuclear Security Administration recommended repurposing the current MOX facility at Savannah River Site to produce plutonium pits, while also maximizing pit production activities at Los Alamos National Laboratory. “I still believe that MOX is the most viable way forward to dispose of our weapons grade plutonium. While I am disappointed that the Department of Energy made the decision to pursue the ‘dilute and dispose’ method, I am encouraged by their decision to begin producing plutonium pits at Savannah River Site. Plutonium pit production is critical to our national security, and will be an enduring mission for years to come.” ###
05.10.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3053, the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act, by a vote of 340-72. This legislation would affect the spent nuclear fuel currently sitting at Plants Hatch and Vogtle, both located in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. As the Representative for Georgia-12, home to every nuclear reactor in the state of Georgia, Congressman Allen has been a strong advocate for addressing the spent nuclear fuel that currently sits idle in 121 communities across the nation and spoke on the House floor in support of this legislation. “Right here in Georgia’s 12th District, we have thousands of spent fuel rods being held in spent fuel pools and dry cask storage containers on site at Plants Hatch and Vogtle. With the construction of two new nuclear reactors set to come online within the next few years at Plant Vogtle, the amount of spent fuel will increase exponentially. Not having a permanent geological repository, like Yucca Mountain, breaks the promise the federal government made back in 1982 to permanently dispose of used fuel and forces our communities to house and store nuclear waste—even though ratepayers have paid more than $40 billion to the Department of Energy for this very purpose! H.R. 3053 implements a strategy to relocate this material off-site and provides practical reforms to our nation’s nuclear waste management policy, ensuring that the federal government fulfills its legal obligation to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high-level waste. This bill passed in an overwhelming bipartisan fashion—the Senate should take notice and pass this bill straightaway.” ###
05.08.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen released the following statement today after President Donald Trump announced that he will be terminating the United States’ participation in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) with Iran, better known as the Iran Deal, and re-imposing the sanctions previously lifted under the deal. “Today, President Trump made it clear to the American people that the United States will no longer tolerate non-compliance under the Obama-era Iran Deal. As a vocal opponent of this deal from the start, I am pleased with the President’s decision to withdraw from this poorly negotiated deal and re-impose sanctions. We could not continue down the path of inaction, putting the security of Americans and our allies at risk. As we move forward, I am eager to work with the Administration and our allies to establish a bold plan of action to address the destructive behavior of the Iranian regime and ensure that Iran has no possible path to a nuclear weapon.” ###
05.07.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen released the following statement after he visited Fort Belvoir today. Fort Belvoir currently houses portions of the U.S. Army Cyber Command (ARCYBER) as they move their headquarters to Fort Gordon. Fort Gordon is also home to the U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence and plays a pivotal role in our nation’s cybersecurity efforts. “My visit today could not have come at a better time on the heels of the exciting Gate 6 groundbreaking ceremony at Fort Gordon last week,” said Congressman Allen. “This new gate symbolizes the growth we are seeing at Fort Gordon and the road ahead, and I was happy to meet with ARCYBER leadership on what we can do in the 12th district to prepare for the remaining elements still to come to Fort Gordon. We discussed many pressing issues to the cyber mission, including what it takes to recruit and retain the greatest talent to fight for our national security. As a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, this is a problem we are hearing across the board, and I remain committed to ensuring that we have skilled workers who are ready and capable to take on the jobs of today and tomorrow. With strategic Army, industry, academia and community partners, I am confident that Fort Gordon will become a hub of innovation and cyber development. I’d like to thank Fort Belvoir for welcoming me today, and I look forward to working once again with Major General Stephen Fogarty, and congratulate him on his confirmation as U.S. Army Cyber Command’s next leader.” ###
05.04.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen visited and spoke at Fort Gordon today for the Gate 6 groundbreaking ceremony. With the relocation of the U.S. Army Cyber Command to Fort Gordon, personnel at the base continues to increase and Gate 6 will accommodate and alleviate heavy traffic, especially for those commuting to the Whitelaw Facility. Congressman Allen’s remarks as prepared for the ceremony can be found below: “Good morning! As some of you may know, I am Congressman Rick Allen and I have the great honor of representing Georgia’s 12 district, which includes right here at Fort Gordon. I am excited to be here today to take part in this ceremonial groundbreaking. Let me tell you a funny story! On my first visit to Fort Gordon as Congressman of Georgia’s 12th district in 2015, I was late to my first meeting because I was held up when my party entered Gate 1. I told the Cyber Center of Excellence and the Fort Gordon Command teams then that I would make it a priority of mine to help them get a new gate and alleviate the traffic, and I am happy that in about two years from now that will come to pass. Opening this new gate will offer many benefits to the men and women who come to Fort Gordon every day to faithfully defend our national security. This new gate will not only provide quicker access on and off Fort Gordon and decrease traffic congestion around the other gates, but it will help enhance the security of everything inside the fence line. It is our responsibility to ensure the security and safety of everyone who comes to Fort Gordon and those driving outside of it. Opening this new gate and all the new construction on and around Fort Gordon has created a significant amount of jobs in the area and has boosted our local economy, and I thank you all for the hard work, dedication, and effort that went into this tremendous achievement. I’m just proud to be able to do my part to authorize and appropriate the hundreds of millions of dollars of funding to help facilitate the move of U.S. Army Cyber Command to Fort Gordon. I would also like to echo what Governor Deal said about the educational partnerships between Fort Gordon and local colleges and universities. As a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, I believe a quality education is vital to the success and security of our nation and I think sharing educational assets is one great way to achieve this. If I can ever assist you at the federal level, please do not hesitate to contact my office. We are here to help and I hope you will let us be a resource for you. Thank you again for having me here today, and I look forward to the continued growth here at Fort Gordon.” ###
04.20.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after the Winn Army Community Hospital located at Fort Stewart announced that they are now home to a Level IV Trauma Center that will serve the entire surrounding community. Fort Stewart stretches across five counties in Georgia, including Evans and Tattnall counties located in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. “I recently had the opportunity to visit the Winn Army Community Hospital and tour Fort Stewart, and I am so proud of the work that is being done at this critical base. With this announcement, the Winn Army Community Hospital has become the first military hospital in the state of Georgia to have a Level IV Trauma Center, and I would like to congratulate the entire community and personnel located at Fort Stewart for all of their hard work in achieving this designation. I am looking forward to the great things yet to come at Fort Stewart and I will continue to do my part to support their mission and people.” ###
04.18.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen issued the following statement after he and his colleagues concluded the markup process and passed the 2018 Farm Bill, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, out of the House Agriculture Committee. Farm bill reauthorization only occurs every five years and the House Agriculture Committee introduced this legislation last week. “With today’s markup completion and passage of the 2018 Farm Bill, my colleagues and I on the House Agriculture Committee are now one step closer to providing our farming families across America with the relief that they need and deserve. Over the last five years, our farmers have endured a drastic decline in net farm income, and it’s past time that Congress act to address these economic hardships. The bill we passed today does just that – it offers solutions to those challenges in a way that works for rural America and allows our farmers to continue providing the safest, most abundant and affordable food supply in the world. As a small businessman and job creator, the greatest joy of my life has been affording others with the opportunity to provide for their family, community and nation through gainful employment. With over six million job openings in this country, this bill also makes great strides in getting America back to work. It provides those who are currently on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program with educational, training, and career opportunities to achieve the American dream. I look forward to bringing this legislation to the House floor for debate and a full vote by the House of Representatives, and rest assured that I will continue to support rural America and the farmers of this great nation who provide so much for us all.” ###
04.16.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after receiving an award from the American Conservative Union Foundation for achieving a 93% conservative excellence rating. “I’d like to thank the American Conservative Union Foundation for presenting me with the Award for Conservative Excellence,” said Rep. Allen. “During my time in Congress, I have been devoted to preserving the conservative principles that our great country was founded upon. From voting to uphold and strengthen our immigration laws and defend the lives of innocent children, to jumpstarting the economy by eliminating Obama-era regulations and passing comprehensive tax reform, I remain dedicated to working with my fellow colleagues and the Trump Administration to continue advancing our conservative vision for America.” “Rep. Allen has proved that he is committed to conservative solutions that benefit all Georgians,” said Matt Schlapp, Chairman of the American Conservative Union Foundation. “His actions to defend the rights of the unborn child, repeal Obamacare and pass historic tax reform demonstrate that he upholds the conservative values of his constituents.” ###
04.13.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen released the following statement today after the U.S House of Representatives failed to pass H. J. Res. 2, the Balanced Budget Amendment, which would amend the U.S. Constitution to require that Congress not spend more than it receives in revenue during any given fiscal year. Any amendment to the U.S. Constitution requires two-thirds majority vote in both the House of Representatives and the Senate. “As an original cosponsor of H. J. Res. 2, I was very disappointed to see the House of Representatives fail to pass this important legislation by the required two-thirds vote. How have we gotten to the point in our nation’s history where politicians in Washington don’t support doing what every other American family does—sitting down at the kitchen table and balancing their budget? A blank check on the taxpayer dime piles more and more debt onto our children and grandchildren, and as a father and grandfather myself, reckless spending cannot be the legacy we leave for our future generations. By failing to pass the Balanced Budget Amendment, we have once again shown the American taxpayer that Washington refuses to be held accountable for reckless and wasteful government spending.” ###
04.12.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) issued the following statement after the 2018 Farm Bill, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, was released this afternoon. Farm bill reauthorization only occurs every five years, with the current farm bill set to expire in September. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, Congressman Allen worked with Chairman Conaway (TX-11) to help draft the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018. “Simply put, our farm economy is not what it was five years ago when the last farm bill was written. In Georgia’s 12th District, I have heard time and again from farmers who are struggling to make ends meet – and nationwide, our producers are facing a 52% decline in net farm income. Reforms must be made to combat the downturn, and that’s exactly why we need the legislation introduced today. H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018, makes significant improvements and changes to provide certainty for our farmers and ensure an abundant food supply for our nation. Thanks to tax reform, the economy is growing, small businesses are expanding, and jobs are opening. This legislation also helps those on the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program take the next step from poverty to prosperity by providing opportunities to prepare for gainful employment, whether through education, training or jumping straight into the workforce. I am thankful for all of the hard work that Chairman Conaway and my fellow colleagues on the committee have dedicated to this year’s farm bill. I am excited about the next step in the legislative process, and I stand committed to providing all of our farmers with the relief that they need and deserve.” The Agriculture and Nutrition Act addresses a variety of issues under the House Agriculture Committee’s jurisdiction, including: Farm Policy: The farm bill maintains and improves Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) through 2023 and allows farmers to make a new election between the two programs. Crop insurance is protected in this bill, with some improvements to the program. In addition, the farm bill reauthorizes marketing and promotion programs that support specialty crops. Specifically, it enacts key changes and maintains funding for the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI) and the Specialty Crop Block Grant program. Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP): The SNAP program is our nation’s chief nutrition program and the farm bill strengthens existing work requirements and offers other opportunities for SNAP recipients to learn the skills necessary for gainful employment. Trade: H.R. 2 supports our farmers and ranchers by authorizing and restoring funding for vital tools for trade promotion and market development. In addition, the bill maintains legal authority for the secretary to provide assistance against unfair foreign trading practices. Rural Development: The bill authorizes annual funds for rural broadband and requires USDA to establish modern broadband standards. It also strengthens rural development initiatives to ensure our rural areas have opportunity for jobs and growth and creates a scholarship program designed for students interested in pursuing a career in agriculture. The next step in the legislative process will be to mark this legislation up in the House Agriculture Committee before bringing it to the House floor for a full vote. ###
04.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after a recent visit to Fort Stewart, the largest Army installation east of the Mississippi river. Congressman Allen received a personal tour and in-depth overview of Fort Stewart from Garrison Commander, Colonel Jason Wolter and toured Winn Army Community Hospital. Fort Stewart is located across five counties in Georgia, including Evans and Tattnall counties located in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. “Our military is the best in the world, and Fort Stewart is second to none for Army Infantry. I am proud of the work already being done at this critical base, and am excited about the potential opportunities that lie ahead for Fort Stewart. As we move forward with next year’s budgeting process, Congress must prioritize rebuilding our military, ensuring military readiness and updating aging infrastructure—and I promise to continue to do my part to support Fort Stewart’s mission and its people.” Pictures from Congressman Allen's visit to Fort Stewart can be found below: ###
04.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen released the following statement after Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (WI-01) announced that he would not seek re-election when his term concludes at the end of this year. “Speaker Ryan has served the American people and Wisconsin’s 1st Congressional District with integrity and honor. I fully support his decision to put his family first and I know that God will bless his decision to do so. I wholeheartedly appreciate all that he has done for me and for his service to our great country. By developing the “Better Way” agenda, rebuilding our military, and passing the largest comprehensive tax reform in over 30 years, Speaker Ryan will leave a lifelong legacy that we will never forget. He will be sorely missed by all.” ###
04.11.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) spoke on the House floor Tuesday night to recognize “a tradition unlike any other,” the Masters golf tournament. The Augusta National Golf Course resides in Rep. Allen’s district and is an attraction that brings people from all walks of life together, whether watching from the course or gathered with family and friends around the television. Mr. Speaker, last week in Augusta, Georgia, we celebrated a tradition that is truly unlike any other. The first full week of April is always one filled with excitement and stellar competition as we watch the most talented golfers in the world take on the famed Augusta National golf course. And for one week each year, the world gets a glimpse into Georgia-12 and the wonderful people who live and work there - the district I have the great honor of representing. From the world-famous azaleas to the delicious pimento cheese sandwiches, the tradition that encompasses the Masters is truly something special. We also heard a historic announcement from Chairman Fred Ridley that the final round of a new competition, the Augusta National Women’s Amateur Tournament, will be played at the Augusta National - furthering the Masters tradition and the future of golf. I’d like to congratulate Chairman Ridley for his leadership in making this important decision and I would also like to congratulate this year’s Masters Champion and Augusta University graduate, Patrick Reed, for his outstanding performance under the greatest pressure experienced in any competition - the back nine at Augusta. It was my privilege to welcome people from around the globe to the world’s greatest sporting event, as we countdown the days until Masters 2019. With that, I yield back. ###
04.04.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement after a recent visit to see the construction of Units 3 and 4 at Plant Vogtle in Waynesboro, Georgia. “I am so pleased to see the great strides being made on Units 3 and 4 here at Plant Vogtle. We have thousands of dedicated workers helping to construct two of the first new nuclear reactors in decades—and after touring the plant and seeing firsthand the vast progress being made on Units 3 and 4, there is no doubt in my mind that America will continue to be a dominant player in the global nuclear industry.” Background: After Westinghouse declared bankruptcy more than a year ago, Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power, and Dalton Utilities made the decision to move forward with construction of two new nuclear reactors at Plant Vogtle, located in Georgia’s 12th Congressional district. Southern Nuclear, a subsidiary of Southern Company, is now overseeing construction. Additionally, earlier in the year, Congress, with Congressman Allen’s support, extended the Nuclear Production Tax Credit, an important provision to the future of new nuclear. Pictures from Congressman Allen's visit to Plant Vogtle can be found below: ###
03.22.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) spoke on the House floor today in support of H.R. 5247, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act. The House of Representatives passed H.R. 5247 today by a vote of 267-149. I rise today to encourage my colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 5247, the Right to Try Act, and I thank Dr. Burgess and the Energy and Commerce Committee for bringing this important legislation to the floor of this House. In certain states across our nation, patients who are diagnosed as terminally ill are being told by doctors that all of their treatment options have been exhausted because they do not have access to experimental drugs. This type of overregulation by the federal government is creating hopeless situations for thousands of Americans that we hold dearest to our hearts. This Right to Try legislation allows terminal patients to have a choice on whether or not an experimental approach is the path for them, and sometimes and many times, this is their only option. Should this bill become federal law, our terminally ill patients will have increased access, nationwide, to unapproved drugs, leading to more scientific breakthroughs that will benefit all Americans, and in some, and a lot of cases, save a life. Now is the time for Congress to take action and give terminally ill patients a fighting chance for their God given right to life. How in God’s name can this Congress deny an American the right to life? I urge all my colleagues to join me today in supporting this bill on this Floor. And with that, I yield back. ###
03.22.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement following the House of Representative’s vote on H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018, also known as the omnibus package to fund the remainder of Fiscal Year 2018. "Today, Congress brought the 2018 omnibus bill to the House floor—a 2,200 plus page bill that was released at 8:30 p.m. last night. Spending $1.3 trillion in taxpayer dollars, saddling future generations with more debt and only giving us 16 hours to view this bill is not the way to run this country. Unfortunately, I could not, in good conscience, support this legislation. The House did its work last year. We debated, amended, and passed all twelve government funding bills in the light of day. We put time and energy into the process to responsibly scrutinize every dollar being spent. We even passed increased defense spending in the House four times – and each time it was stalled in the Senate. The Senate took no action on these bills, made no attempt to take up their own funding bills and because of their inaction, today we find ourselves once again forced to take a vote on a bill that has not been properly vetted by the American people. We kicked the can down the road with back-to-back-to-back Continuing Resolutions to allow time to work through the process, and yet this was the end result. Leadership in both houses in Congress must come together to find a long-term budgetary solution to our broken budget process and our crippling debt. I will continue to work with my colleagues to achieve this goal as soon as possible. American taxpayers deserve better.” ###
03.20.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) spoke on the House floor yesterday, with other members of Congress from Georgia and Alabama, to highlight the positive impacts the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is having in their home states. I rise today to highlight the significant impact that comprehensive tax reform has had on Georgia’s 12th district. As a businessman, I bring a different perspective to the halls of Congress, and during my tenure in Congress, I have been focused on three goals: grow the economy, get folks back to work, and reduce the size and scope of the federal government. Like me, President Trump is a businessman, and under his leadership, we are getting our economy back on track – and nothing can compare to the effect that tax reform is having on jumpstarting our economy, and expanding small businesses and creating jobs. Over the past few months, I have had the opportunity to meet with several small businesses as I’ve traveled across Georgia-12 to discuss how tax reform is making real changes for them and their employees. I’d like to share a story of Georgia Tire Company, a 72 year old business located in Vidalia, GA. In 1946, two brothers, after World War II, decided to buy a small gas station. One of their sons, Rusty, began working alongside his father and uncle during the summer of 1965 and then began working full-time at the family business in 1972 – with a third generation of workers not far behind. Now, they are known as a reputable business selling tires across the district and providing automotive repairs in Toombs County. The Moses family has built their business through hard work, treating customers fairly, a little bit of luck and most importantly, through their employees, who are treated like part of the family. When I had the opportunity to speak with Rusty Moses about the success of his family business, he told me that his employees are hard-working, honest, law abiding people, but high taxes and complex laws continued to stifle their income. Mr. Moses promised his employees that if the tax laws were changed, they would share in the business tax savings through performance bonuses and salary increases. Thanks to tax reform, this promise has become a reality! Georgia Tire Company has seen an increase in take-home pay and plans to issue employee bonuses at the end of this fiscal year. There are so many family businesses, like Georgia Tire Company, who are truly the lifeblood of our communities. Before tax reform, these businesses were struggling to make ends meet, and unable to provide their employees with well-earned benefits. Don’t just take my word for it – there are more than 4 million Americans who have already seen, just like this tire company, the impacts of tax reform. With Congress and the President working hand-in-hand, we’ve made great strides and I can’t tell you how happy I am to see our local businesses thriving in the new American economy, growing this economy, and giving all Americans the opportunity to have a good job. I’d like to thank my fellow colleagues and President Trump for their support of comprehensive tax reform for all Americans, and with that, I yield back. ###
03.16.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement after the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the Department of Labor’s (DOL) fiduciary rule, an Obama-era regulation that made it more difficult for financial advisors to provide clients with quality, affordable financial advice. “I believe saving for retirement is crucial for American families, and access to professional financial advice should not be hindered by burdensome overregulation. Unfortunately, the Obama-era fiduciary rule would have done more harm than good to the very people it was claiming to protect. I am thankful that the Fifth Circuit Court took meaningful action to vacate this rule once and for all. Vacating the fiduciary rule helps ensure that all Americans have access to quality, affordable financial advice.” Congressman Allen has been strongly opposed to the DOL’s fiduciary rule during his tenure in Congress. As a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, the committee of jurisdiction, he supported and cosponsored H.R. 2823, the Affordable Retirement Advice for Savers Act, which would repeal the fiduciary rule and require retirement advisors to serve the best interests of their clients.
03.15.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate passed S. 2155, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act, legislation that makes strides towards rolling back harmful regulations of the Dodd-Frank Act on small and mid-size banks. The House of Representatives passed similar legislation last year. “President Obama’s cornerstone financial legislation, the Dodd-Frank Act, has been a tremendous setback for our financial sector and our local community banks. The Dodd-Frank Act imposed more regulations than every other Obama administration law combined, and yesterday, the Senate took a major step towards alleviating these regulations. We did our work in the House last year when we passed the Financial CHOICE Act, and it is high time that we allow our community banks to get back in the business of lending. The next step in the legislative process is to bring these two bills to conference, allowing the House and Senate to hammer out any differences before sending it to the President’s desk.” S. 2155 passed the Senate by a vote of 67-31, in a bipartisan manner. ###
03.14.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act, by a bipartisan vote of 407-10. “The House took a bold step in addressing school safety today when we voted to pass the STOP School Violence Act with overwhelming bipartisan support. This important legislation provides schools, local law enforcement, and students the tools they need to stop threats before they become reality. Schools will be able to coordinate more with local law enforcement, make significant improvements to school security, and train students and personnel to identify violent behavior. As this bill goes through the legislative process and beyond, my fellow colleagues and I will continue the fight for school safety and to keep our kids secure.” The STOP School Violence Act would reauthorize $75 million a year for a school safety grant program that would focus on evidence-based strategies to prevent school violence. ###
02.28.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) spoke on the House floor yesterday, honoring the life and legacy of the late Reverend Billy Graham. “It is my privilege today to rise to honor the life of ‘America’s Pastor.’ Last week, we mourned the loss of Reverend Billy Graham, who passed away at the age of 99 in his beloved home in North Carolina. As one of the most influential pastors of the 20th century, Reverend Graham traveled the world to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ to millions of people. In fact, he preached to more people than anyone who has ever lived. As a young man, I have very fond memories of my family all coming together to sit in front of the television to watch the Rev. Graham’s Crusades. His message of God’s love, mercy, forgiveness, and justice deeply influenced not only me, but also many in our nation’s history. In today’s day and age, we desperately need another Billy Graham, to give hope to a deceived, confused, and hopeless populous. Rev. Graham preached the truth, he lived it, and we know that the truth will set us free. But more importantly, Billy Graham has heard the words from the Savior of the world ‘well done my good and faithful servant.’ Billy Graham will be sorely missed but his memory will live on in the hearts and minds of those millions of people he helped and as Billy Graham would say, ‘All glory be to God.’” ###
02.27.2018	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) announced he will be hosting a Free File Public briefing on Friday, March 2, 2018 at 10:00am at the Columbia County Library. The purpose of this briefing is to highlight the federal and Georgia Free File programs that provide free state income tax preparation and e-filing services to lower and moderate income taxpayers. Congressman Allen stated, “Free File is a great example of how government, the private sector and community groups can work together to provide an important service to the people. I look forward to hosting this briefing to highlight the program and assist lower and moderate income taxpayers in filing their taxes.” WHAT: Georgia Free File Public Briefing WHEN: Friday, March 2, 2018 10:00 am WHERE: RSVP: Columbia County Library 7022 Evans Town Center Blvd. Evans, GA 30809 Christopher Wesolowski chriswesolo@gmail.com or (810) 305-1433 ###
02.23.2018	Rev. Billy Graham passed away on Wednesday, February 21 and will lie in honor in the U.S. Capitol Rotunda. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement in his honor: “Rev. Billy Graham was a true man of God and will forever be remembered for the impact he had on so many lives. In today’s day and age, we need more folks like Rev. Graham, who inspired so many to keep faith at the center of our world and in our hearts. To lie in honor at the U.S. Capitol is a tremendous tribute to Rev. Graham’s legacy and his devout faith that he spread across the world. Please keep the family, friends, and loved ones of Rev. Graham in your thoughts and prayers as they grieve the loss of an American icon.” Rev. Billy Graham will be brought to the U.S. Capitol Rotunda on Wednesday, February 28 and will lie in honor until Thursday, March 1. Members of the public are welcome to attend and pay their respects to the late Rev. Graham. Please keep any eye on my website for any updates in the coming days. ###
02.09.2018	Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement after the House and Senate passed a bipartisan budget bill in order to keep the government open: “Today, I had to make a tough choice. We averted another long and costly government shutdown, but these backdoor deals must end. I strongly believe that we need significant reforms to runaway mandatory spending in order to balance our budget and reduce our deficits. “Ultimately, when it comes down to it, my job is to represent the people of Georgia-12 and this legislation provided my district with some critical support. We increased funding for our military, one of the main responsibilities of Congress, assisted our cotton farmers, and helped preserve the future of nuclear energy. Looking to the future, we shouldn’t have to make tough choices like this anymore. We need to get our budget process back to regular order,” said Congressman Allen. Today’s continuing resolution addressed a variety of unique issues, including: Extension of the Nuclear Production Tax Credit – Georgia-12 is leading the way in the expansion of our nation’s nuclear energy resources, constructing two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years, and the Nuclear Production Tax Credit is critical to continue America’s dominance in the global nuclear industry. Defense Funding – Our military faces a critical readiness gap that must be remedied. Thankfully by including full funding for our troops, they will be provided with the adequate resources they need as well as a well-deserved pay raise for soldiers like those at Fort Gordon. Repeal of the Independent Payment Advisory Board – Created by Obamacare, the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) consists of fifteen unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats with unilateral authority to slash Medicare spending as they see fit. By repealing this board, we will give seniors more control over their healthcare decisions. Seed cotton eligibility for the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and the Agricultural Risk Coverage (ARC) programs – Beginning with the 2018 crop year, this action addresses ongoing disaster-related economic challenges facing cotton producers in our district. It will allow them to participate in the programs just as all other major U.S. commodity producers do. ###
01.30.2018	President Donald J. Trump delivered his first State of the Union address this evening. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement in response: “We should all be proud to be Americans after the successes of President Trump’s first year in office. Neil Gorsuch was confirmed as the newest Supreme Court Justice, we have the lowest jobless claims in decades, our economy is growing at historic levels – and that’s just the tip of the iceberg. I am proud to have done my part to support the President’s agenda over the past year.” “Tonight, President Trump reaffirmed his commitment to put Americans first – no matter their political party. Looking to the future, our government must unify to do what is best for the American people by building a safer and stronger nation. Congress still has a lot of important work to do, like providing for our military, investing in our nation’s infrastructure, and securing our borders. We must build on last year’s successes of tax reform and cutting burdensome red tape - continuing to provide all Americans the dignity of work by promoting policies that create new jobs, support hardworking families, and expand opportunities for business owners across the nation.” “As we read in the book of Matthew, ‘a house divided against itself cannot stand.’ It was an honor to hear President Trump lay out his vision for American prosperity, and now Congress must come together to realize these goals.” ###
01.22.2018	The U.S. House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate voted to fund the government today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement after Senate Democrats did their job and joined with their Republican colleagues to vote to fund our government and our military: “I am relieved that my Senate Democratic colleagues finally did what was right and joined Republicans to vote to fund the government. It is simply inexcusable that they kept funding for our troops and this government hostage for the past three days. We heard their message loud and clear ‘illegal immigrants are more important than American citizens' – and that is just plain wrong.” ###
01.20.2018	Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement after Senate Democrats blocked a government spending bill, shutting down the United States Government: “Here’s the simple truth: my colleagues on the other side of the aisle are holding our government, military, and children’s healthcare hostage. Instead of putting Americans first, Democrats are choosing illegal immigrants. It is Congress’ constitutional obligation to fund the government, yet Senate Democrats have decided that party politics are more important than our American workers.” “Along with my colleagues in the House, I did my part to prevent this from happening. I voted to fund our government, to pay our military, and to extend the children’s health insurance program for six years. We work for the citizens of America – and to the Senate Democrats, I say do your job, do what is in the best interest of this great nation and end this Schumer shutdown.” ###
01.19.2018	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA), a cosponsor of this legislation, spoke in support of the bill earlier this week: "I rise today in support of H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this important pro-life legislation." "The Born-Alive Survivors Protection Act is a simple, but critical bill to strengthen the protections for babies who survive abortion. It ensures that these precious babies are provided with the same degree of medical care that any other child would receive in order to save their lives. We all expect doctors and nurses to follow their oath, to heal and help – this bill simply codifies that expectation into law for babies who survive abortion, and deserve a chance at life." "Just think about this – right now we are debating whether a living, breathing, baby should be given a chance to live. I know that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle agree that these babies deserve our compassion, and most importantly, our protection – and I hope they will join me in supporting this important legislation. With that I yield back." ###
01.11.2018	Former U.S. Congressman Doug Barnard Jr. passed away on Thursday, January 11. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement in his honor: “Doug Barnard was truly a legend. He was a mentor, a friend and a statesman. He was always willing to work across the aisle to do what was best for the people of Augusta. Over the years I have sought his advice, and while he will always be remembered, he will be missed – not only by me, but by the entire Augusta community.” ###
01.09.2018	President Donald J. Trump addressed the American Farm Bureau Federation’s national convention yesterday before signing an Executive Order on streamlining and expediting requests to locate broadband facilities in rural America. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement: “In today’s world, broadband is not a luxury, but rather a necessity for folks to compete. Every time I travel the district, Georgians tell me why they need accessible and affordable rural broadband in their homes, schools, and businesses. Since elected, I have been working tirelessly with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to get more broadband to Georgia-12. Many of my constituents reside in rural areas and have major concerns about the lack of access to broadband. Farms, businesses, and families are suffering due to lack of connectivity not only in my district, but across this nation.” “Thanks to yesterday’s executive order, we are one step closer to reliable, affordable broadband internet service for all Americans. I want to thank President Trump and Secretary Perdue for their continued support of rural communities, and I look forward to further addressing this issue in the upcoming Farm Bill.” ###
01.08.2018	President Donald J. Trump addressed the American Farm Bureau Federation’s national convention today, making him the first president to do so since President George H.W. Bush in the early 1990s. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following statement in support of President Trump’s remarks: “As a Representative from Georgia, where agriculture is the number one industry in both my district and my state, I am grateful for President Trump's focus on rural America. Our hardworking farmers and rural communities have felt forgotten by past presidents, but with the Trump Administration’s support, I believe the best is yet to come.” “As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I am looking towards the 2018 Farm Bill reauthorization to make the critical changes our farmers need to succeed. Working closely with the Trump Administration, the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity and my colleagues on the House Agriculture Committee, I am hopeful that we can provide legislative solutions to address the pressing issues facing our farmers so we can continue production of the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world.” “I am also proud to see two Georgia-grown agriculture leaders, U.S. Department of Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy Duvall, at the forefront of the push for rural prosperity. Their strong advocacy at the national level is spurring positive change for rural Americans across this great nation. Together, we will all work to ensure rural America is not forgotten.” Background: President Donald J. Trump created the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity in April of 2017. Lead by USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue, the task force has identified more than one hundred actions the federal government could consider to achieve a vision of a better rural America. The task force identified five key indicators on which they built their recommendations: Connectivity for Rural America Quality of Live Improvement Support for a Rural Workforce Technological Innovation Rural Economic Development To learn more about the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity, please click here. ###
12.22.2017	Just days before Christmas, President Donald J. Trump has kept his promise to the American people to deliver comprehensive tax reform. Congressman Rick W. Allen (GA-12) released the following statement after President Trump signed H.R. 1, comprehensive tax reform, into law: "Promises made, promises kept - this has been the cornerstone of President Trump's first year in office. Together, we have kept our promise to the American people to deliver the first major tax reform legislation in more than 31 years. Since this legislation passed the Senate and the House earlier in the week, numerous American companies have announced rising minimum wages and bonuses for their employees - great news for individuals and businesses across the nation." "I hope everyone in Georgia-12 can sleep a little better tonight, knowing that they will soon see more money in their pockets, and a flourishing American economy. This is a truly historic day and in the words of President Trump, we have delivered 'a big, beautiful Christmas present' for America." ###
12.21.2017	The Georgia Public Service Commission members voted unanimously to move forward with construction of Plant Vogtle units 3 and 4 today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement: “I am proud to represent the 12th Congressional district of Georgia, where we are leading the way in America’s nuclear energy expansion. Employing nearly 6,000 people in my district and continuing our dominance in the global nuclear industry, the importance of the Plant Vogtle project cannot be overstated. Today I am grateful to the Georgia Public Service Commission for their unanimous decision to move forward with the construction of Plant Vogtle units 3 & 4.” “I believe this project is vital to our district, our state and America’s nuclear energy future. Looking forward, it is still critical for Congress to modify the Nuclear Production Tax Credit to extend the 2020 sunset date. Although this was not included in the final Tax Cuts and Jobs Act legislation, my colleagues on the Senate Finance Committee introduced a bill to extend these provisions yesterday. I thank my Senate colleagues for their continued commitment on this important issue and I will continue to do all I can to get the Nuclear Production Tax Credit extension over the finish line.” ###
12.20.2017	The House and the Senate passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act – and it is now headed to President Trump’s desk. This historic legislation will fix our broken tax code and provide the first major tax reforms in more than 30 years. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after House and Senate passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “I am encouraged by our current economic growth under President Trump and I am hopeful that with the passage of this historic legislation we will continue to see America’s economic potential unleashed. Thankfully, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is on its way to President Trump’s desk, ready to be signed into law – a true Christmas miracle!” For Individuals and Families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual taxes and sets the rates at 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Significantly increases the standard deduction. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes – up to $10,000. Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. Preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit so parents can continue to receive additional tax relief as they open their hearts and homes to an adopted child. Preserves the mortgage interest deduction – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction for 2017 and 2018 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, and rising to 10 percent beginning in 2019. Continues and expands the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) so Americans can continue to save for their future. Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the amount of the current exemption to reduce uncertainty and costs for many family-owned farms and businesses when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. For Job Creators of all Sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21% (beginning Jan. 1, 2018). Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans. Eliminates the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax. Modernizes our international tax system. Makes it easier for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas. ###
12.19.2017	The day has finally come! After 30 years with no major reforms to our broken tax code, the House just passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after House passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “During this blessed Christmas season, I am so grateful for the opportunity to cast a historic vote to cut, simplify and reform taxes for middle class families and small businesses. The hardworking people of Georgia-12 and across America deserve to keep more of their paychecks and have the opportunity to grow their businesses.” “Not only will this legislation cut taxes for individuals and businesses, but it also preserves many credits important to my constituents and Americans across the nation. This includes the expansion of the child tax credit, preservation of the adoption tax credit, preservation of the mortgage interest deduction and expansion of the charitable contributions deduction – just to name a few. Now it is up to our Senate colleagues to deliver tax reform to President Trump’s desk!” For Individuals and Families, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual taxes and sets the rates at 0%, 10%, 12%, 22%, 24%, 32%, 35%, and 37% so people can keep more of their hard-earned money. Significantly increases the standard deduction. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local taxes – up to $10,000. Expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000 for single filers and married couples to help parents with the cost of raising children. Preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit so parents can continue to receive additional tax relief as they open their hearts and homes to an adopted child. Preserves the mortgage interest deduction – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Provides relief for Americans with expensive medical bills by expanding the medical expense deduction for 2017 and 2018 for medical expenses exceeding 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, and rising to 10 percent beginning in 2019. Continues and expands the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Eliminates Obamacare’s individual mandate penalty Provides support for graduate students by continuing to exempt the value of reduced tuition from taxes. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts (IRAs) so Americans can continue to save for their future. Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the amount of the current exemption to reduce uncertainty and costs for many family-owned farms and businesses when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. For Job Creators of all Sizes, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 21% (beginning Jan. 1, 2018). Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off interest on loans. Eliminates the Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax. Modernizes our international tax system. Makes it easier for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas. ###
12.01.2017	House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairwoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) introduced the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success, and Prosperity through Education Reform (PROSPER) Act today. It has been more than 50 years since we have seen a major overhaul of the higher education system and 9 years since the last reauthorization of the Higher Education Act. Americans should no longer accept the status quo of outdated laws that aren’t working for the majority of students. “Since the last bill came out, we had a big recession and tremendous technological changes,” said Chairwoman Foxx. “We have a shortage of 6 million skilled workers. What we want to do is help colleges provide students with the skills they need to succeed in the workplace.” Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12), a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, released the following statement after the PROSPER Act was introduced: “I applaud Chairwoman Foxx’s introduction of the PROSPER Act today. Georgia’s 12th district is home to many higher education institutions, serving the needs of students across the state and country. I know how important it is to provide students with the skills they need to succeed in the current workforce, and that doesn’t always mean a four year degree is right for everyone. Earlier this year, I held multiple higher education roundtables throughout GA-12 to discuss reform. The feedback from the higher education community was invaluable as my colleagues and I drafted the PROSPER Act. The clear take away for me was that Georgia students need simplification, flexibility, and on the job training. “Before I was elected to Congress, I worked in the construction industry for more than 30 years – an industry that has embraced apprenticeship programs. I am so grateful that Chairwoman Foxx included language to further expand apprenticeship programs in America. This is the first time such language has been included in Higher Education Act legislation. “The PROSPER Act is a historic package of higher education reforms that will ensure a limited federal role in higher education, simplify the student aid process, and empower students and families to make informed decisions. As a business owner, the greatest joy of my life has been creating jobs for folks in my community; affording them the ability to provide for their family, for their church and their hometown—an opportunity that should be available to all Americans. With 6 million open jobs in this country, the education and business communities must work together to cultivate a qualified workforce. We must make a change, and I am hopeful that the PROSPER Act will be that change.” Click here to learn more about the PROSPER Act. ###
11.16.2017	The U.S. House of Representatives passed historic tax reform legislation today. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, sponsored by House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), represents the first major tax reform legislation in more than 30 years. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after House passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: “As a businessman for 40 years, I never dreamed that I would have the opportunity to cast a vote to cut, simplify, and reform taxes for middle class families and small businesses. Today, I proudly voted to do just that. Our growing economy is proof that rolling back regulations and reducing the size and scope of our government works. Under the Trump Administration we are getting our economy back on track, but nothing can compare to the effect that tax reform will have on jumpstarting the economy, expanding small businesses and creating jobs. “Our current tax system is broken, taxes are too high, and our families and businesses are the ones paying the price. The hardworking people of Georgia-12 and across America deserve to keep more of their paychecks and have the opportunity to grow their businesses. Today we took the next step in making tax reform a reality by passing the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and I was honored to cast my vote for historic legislation that will protect the American dream for hardworking families and remove the tax burdens strangling our economy. I am proud of the work the House has done and am hopeful that my Senate colleagues will join us to get tax reform on President Trump’s desk soon.” Key Components of the Tax Cut and Jobs Act: Lowers rates for individuals and families Preserves retirement savings options, such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts, as Americans know them today Creates a new lower tax rate and structure for small businesses Increases the standard deduction Increases the child tax credit Preserves the Adoption Tax Credit Preserves and extends the Nuclear Production Tax Credit, which is critical to the construction of the two new nuclear reactors at Plant Vogtle Preserves the deduction for charitable contributions Protects the home mortgage interest deduction Lowers the corporate tax rate to create jobs and promote competitiveness Allows individuals to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000 Streamlines higher education benefits Allows “expensing” of capital investments to boost the economy Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the exemption and repealing the Death Tax after six years Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax Eliminates loopholes for the wealthy, protects bedrock provisions for the middle class ###
11.14.2017	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) spoke in support of this legislation which includes important funding for Georgia's 12th Congressional District: "I rise today to express my support for the conference report on the National Defense Authorization Act, which passed the House of Representatives today. In a great bipartisan moment, the NDAA received overwhelming support to authorize almost $700 billion in defense spending and set priorities for our military – including the largest pay raise for our troops in 8 years. "The conference report kept funding important to Georgia-12 included in earlier versions of the FY18 NDAA, such as $8 billion in funding for cyber operations and over $85 million in new military construction to prepare for our cyber warriors at Fort Gordon, like new family housing and a new gate. Ensuring that our soldiers, sailors, and airmen are equipped with the facilities and resources they need to fight the battles of today and tomorrow is crucial to our nation’s safety and security. "Days after celebrating one of the most important days of the year honoring our veterans, I am happy to say that with the passage of H.R. 2810 – we have provided for the common defense, supported our service members and worked to close the critical readiness gap. With that I yield back." ###
11.10.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) held a telephone town hall on Monday to answer questions from residents of Georgia’s 12th District. Congressman Allen gave an update on important issues facing our nation such as the recent GOP tax reform legislation, veterans’ legislation that has been signed into law, and his work on the House Agriculture and Education and the Workforce Committees. For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Beverly from Hazlehurst asked what Congress is doing to help high school students learn more about technical education: Congressman Allen: “As a former business owner, I know firsthand the challenges of finding a skilled workforce. This is why I was proud to support legislation that passed the house in June which reinforces and strengthens our federal career and technical education support. It’s the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act... the need is there. I agree 100% with you.” Nancy from Dublin asked about Congressman Allen’s thoughts on the slow pace of Congress: Congressman Allen: “Well I’m going to tell you, I don’t like the progress here one bit, and actually I’m pretty frustrated. I was very disappointed with the Senate as far as their inaction on the healthcare bill. I’m getting calls. We’re getting people, they’re signing up for their health insurance again, and we’re getting calls of premium increases. This healthcare is a big problem in this country. Obviously, we’re going on now to tax reform, and I think it’s going better. There are some questions, and again we want all your feedback, but I’m hoping that by Thanksgiving we’re voting on this, and we’re going to send it to the Senate. “Like I said, tax reform is going to be a huge win for us, and I’m looking forward to getting that done. Thank you so much for that question.” Kenneth from Augusta asked about Obamacare’s individual mandates: Congressman Allen: “Our [healthcare] bill repealed these mandates and actually gave tax credits to go buy insurance which is, I think, the way to do business… The Senate is listening to America, finally, and we understand that they are talking about, when they do their tax bill, is to tack on the repeal of the mandates to their tax reform bill. “Obviously, I will support the repeal of those mandates, and this could well happen. If we get rid of the mandates, then that gives you, and lots of other Americans, the opportunity to partner in these HSAs and to make these insurance companies compete for your business. Competition is the only way we’re going to accomplish that.” Andre from Augusta asked how tax cuts will spur economic growth: Congressman Allen: “Of course, I come from the small business community. I had a small business for thirty years. With the reduction in the taxes on the small business pass-through, will give us, in small business, more capital to invest in our business, which will create more jobs. “We have to do something. The economy was, and has been, growing at a lethargic rate for the last 8 years. We’ve already seen improvement just from the work that we’ve done so far with the tax reform bill. It’s important that we bring jobs back to this country.” “We pay the highest corporate tax rate in the world right now and by reducing that to 20%, we will keep companies from moving offshore. In fact, I was flying up today and had a gentleman sitting beside me that said they’re fixing to move a whole division here back from Southeast Asia if this tax law goes into effect. That’s the way you grow the economy, and that’s the way you grow jobs.” Frank from Springfield asked for specifics on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Congressman Allen: “The [standard deduction in the] current tax bill, to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes, is going from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. And yes, again, most people will be filing that way. We do preserve the home mortgage interest deduction for mortgages up to $500,000, providing tax relief to our current homeowners. “You raised a good question, and like I said, with this larger deduction, many more people are not going to itemize which is a good thing. It makes it simple. You’re going to be able to fill out your tax return on a postcard.” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington and for the 12th District, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
11.09.2017	Rep. Rick Allen (GA-12) and Rep. Elizabeth Esty (CT-5) introduced H. Res. 610, a bipartisan resolution to establish November 9, 2017 as National Diabetes Heart Health Awareness Day. According to the resolution, the intent of the day is to “raise public awareness about the specific risks of heart disease for people with diabetes and help to ensure people at risk receive a timely diagnosis and proper treatment.” Close to 30 million Americans have diabetes, including an estimated 8 million Americans who have not been diagnosed. Over two-thirds of people age 65 or older with diabetes die from some form of heart disease. “Chances are you or someone you love lives with Type 2 diabetes or heart disease – or likely both,” Allen said. “Many Americans are aware of these diseases – but not the link between the two. If a person has Type 2 diabetes he or she is more than twice as likely to develop cardiovascular disease and live 7-8 years less. That’s less time spent with family, less time at the job you love, less time investing in your church and hometown.” “That’s why I am proud to introduce legislation, H.Res.610, to support today, November 9, 2017, as ‘National Diabetes Heart Health Awareness Day’. 29 million Americans have diabetes, including more than 1 million in my home state of Georgia. Not only does the link between Type 2 diabetes and heart disease have a devastating personal toll; it’s an ever growing strain on our nation’s limited healthcare dollars. According to the American Diabetes Association, diagnosed diabetes cost $245 billion in 2012. 28 percent of those costs came from treating people with heart disease and diabetes. I strongly believe that raising awareness of the link between diabetes and heart health can save lives and taxpayers' hard earned dollars. Today my friend Rep. Elizabeth Esty joins me in taking a step towards better health. I am proud of our bipartisan legislation to keep Americans’ hearts strong and lives full.” “Almost one in every ten adults in Connecticut has been diagnosed with diabetes, and tens of thousands more likely have the disease, even though they don’t know it,” Esty said. “This issue is personal for me: like so many Americans, I’ve had family members affected by diabetes and heart conditions. The science is clear that having diabetes dramatically increases the likelihood of developing cardiovascular disease, which claims far too many lives in our state and throughout the country each year. That’s why it’s so important for policymakers to focus on the research and preventive medicine that will encourage healthy habits and save lives. “Better heart health will mean lower health care costs, which in turn will lead to better outcomes for everyone. In Connecticut, we spend hundreds of millions of dollars a year on hospitalizations related to diabetes. I’m proud to join Congressman Allen to highlight the importance of controlling blood sugar for better heart health, a better healthcare system for our country, and most importantly, healthier lives for Americans.” ###
11.02.2017	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 849, the Protecting Seniors Access to Medicare Act today. This legislation will repeal the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) which was created by Obamacare. This is board of fifteen unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats with unilateral authority to slash Medicare spending as they see fit. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) cosponsored the legislation, and spoke in support of the bill on the House Floor: “I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the Protecting Senior’s Access to Medicare Act. How many of you know what the Independent Payment Advisory Board is? How many of you know who serves on this board? I would venture to say that not many people know the 15 unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats who have unilateral authority to cut Medicare spending. “When the Democrats passed Obamacare, they created the Independent Payment Advisory Board – providing them with unprecedented power to alter Medicare policy...Ultimately having the chance to reduce seniors’ access to health care and put the government at the center of our healthcare system – with zero accountability or transparency. “My constituents deserve better – and Americans across this nation deserve better. A vote for this legislation is a vote to give seniors more control over their healthcare decisions. I urge my colleagues to support Dr. Roe’s bill – and I yield back.” ###
10.31.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Agricultural Marketing Service finalized a rule to revise the minimum quality and handling standards for domestic and imported peanuts marketed in the United States: “Peanuts are one of the top commodities produced here in Georgia-12, and as I travelled the district for my Farm Tour in September, one of the main refrains I heard from our peanut farmers is how critical it is to get this rule change finalized. With the unpredictable weather patterns over the past few years, I know many folks have struggled with their peanut crops. These changes will greatly reduce the burden on peanut growers in my district and across the country. It is crucial that we continue adapting and making the necessary changes at the federal level to keep up with the technological advancements we are seeing in the industry. I thank the Department of Agriculture for finalizing this important rule for our peanut farmers.” The rule was proposed earlier this year. ###
10.30.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) was joined by eleven of his Georgia colleagues on a letter to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX) urging the inclusion of the Modifying Advanced Nuclear Power Tax Credit in their forthcoming tax legislation. Congressman Allen released the following statement: “I thank my Georgia colleagues who joined me on this important letter to House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady, requesting that the Nuclear Production Tax Credit be included in the final tax reform bill. Now that Congress cleared the last hurdle to begin tackling tax reform, the House Ways and Means Committee will soon release legislative text. “My district is leading the way in the expansion of our nation’s nuclear energy resources, constructing two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years, and the Nuclear Production Tax Credit is critical to continue America’s dominance in the global nuclear industry. I am hopeful that we will see the Nuclear Production Tax Credit included in the Ways and Means Committee’s legislation, allowing us to continue to invest in our own energy independence and provide low cost energy to my constituents and folks across the nation. The future of nuclear energy in America depends on it.” Please see below for the full text of the letter: October 26, 2017 The Honorable Kevin Brady, Chairman Committee on Ways & Means 1102 Longworth House Office Building Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Brady: As the Ways and Means Committee writes legislation to simplify and modernize our tax code, we urge you to include H.R. 1551 - Modifying Advanced Nuclear Power Tax Credit, which was reported favorably by the committee in 2016 and 2017, passed the House of Representatives unanimously, and has the support of the Administration. As you know, this legislation will modify the Nuclear Production Tax Credit (NPTC) to eliminate the 2020 sunset date. H.R. 1551 would also enable nonprofit co-owners to fully realize the NPTC, in keeping with Congress’ original intent. The modifications to this tax credit have a minimal $16 million score according to CBO, but will result in approximately $2 billion of energy savings for Georgia’s Plant Vogtle project alone, which will be passed along to ratepayers, and will signal to the world that America is intent on continuing to lead the way in nuclear production. Our state of Georgia is leading the way to expand nuclear energy, constructing two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years. Beyond simply benefiting Georgia, this credit is integral to protecting our nation’s energy security and independence, ushering in an American nuclear energy renaissance. Without these credits, innovative projects serving energy customers and creating jobs in South Carolina, Alabama, Utah, Oregon, Idaho, Nevada, and many other states will never have the opportunity to succeed. We respectfully request your support for the inclusion of H.R. 1551 in the comprehensive tax reform legislation. We cannot overstate the urgency of our request and we greatly appreciate your favorable consideration. Sincerely, Rick W. Allen (GA-12) Earl L. “Buddy” Carter (GA-01) Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (GA-02) A. Drew Ferguson, IV, D.M.D. (GA-03) Karen C. Handel (GA-06) Rob Woodall (GA-07) Austin Scott (GA-08) Doug Collins (GA-09) Jody B. Hice (GA-10) Barry Loudermilk (GA-11) David Scott (GA-13) Tom Graves (GA-14) ###
10.26.2017	The House of Representatives passed the Senate-passed Fiscal Year 2018 budget resolution today, paving the way for tax reform. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement: “Today I supported the Senate-passed FY18 budget resolution. Although I was disappointed in some of the changes made from the House-passed version, we cannot afford to miss this opportunity. Without action, hardworking Americans across the nation will have the same April 15th they always have, and that is unacceptable. President Trump is with us on tax reform and today we have taken a big step towards fixing our broken tax code. We are closer than ever to providing tax relief for hardworking Americans and removing the tax burdens strangling our economy. Our constituents expect this of us. I look forward to working with my Republican colleagues to get tax reform legislation on President Trump’s desk.” Congressman Allen spoke in support of the budget resolution on the House Floor, urging his colleagues to support the legislation. For more detailed information on the Unified Framework for Fixing our Broken Tax Code, please visit fairandsimple.gop. ###
10.25.2017	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 469, the Sunshine for Regulations and Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act today. Sponsored by fellow Georgian Congressman Doug Collins (R-GA-09), this legislation will uphold a fair and transparent regulatory process. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) supported this legislation, and urged his colleagues to support the bill on the House Floor: “I rise today to support my fellow Georgian, Congressman Doug Collins’ bill – H.R. 469. One of the biggest complaints I hear about the Federal Government is about the lack of accountability or these ‘back room deals.’ One glaring example of this is what is referenced to as sue-and-settle litigation. “Under previous administrations, left-leaning groups would sue a federal agency to try and enact regulatory changes without going through the normal rule-making process. Both parties, the federal government and special interest groups, settle in court with an already agreed upon deal. Regulatory rules are then made quickly without any public notice or the input of any other relevant parties– but carry the rule of law. These new rules are often the most burdensome and cost our businesses billions of dollars each year. “This doesn’t sound like ‘draining the swamp’ to me. “H.R. 469 stops these unfair arrangements by requiring agencies to publicly post and report to Congress on sue-and-settle complaints, consent decrees and settlement arrangements. It also prohibits the same-day filing of complaints and settlement agreements in cases seeking to compel agency action. “Congressman Collins’ legislation, the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act, will provide greater accountability and transparency to the American public while stopping special interests from improperly influencing our nation’s regulatory regime. We must uphold a fair and transparent regulatory process – the American people demand this from us. I urge my colleagues to support the rule on this common-sense legislation and I yield back.” ###
10.23.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) hosted three higher education roundtables last week during the district work period. He sat down with administrators from Georgia Southern University, Augusta University and higher education administrators from across the 12th district at East Georgia State College. Attendees included South Georgia State College, Augusta Technical College, Southeastern Technical College, Brewton-Parker College, Ogeechee Technical College, Middle Georgia State University, East Georgia State College, and Georgia Military College. Congressman Allen released the following statement after his successful discussions: “Last week, I spent time with educators and higher education administrators across Georgia-12, and let me tell you, they do some great work for Georgia students. But boy, do they have challenges with the federal government. I hear it over and over again when I meet with folks across Georgia-12 – the federal government is slow, bureaucratic, and overly burdensome, and we sure have our work cut out for us as we begin drafting the Higher Education Act Reauthorization this fall. “The Higher Education Act has not been reauthorized since 2008—and much has changed in our college and university systems since then, such as ballooning student debt and burdensome reporting requirements. My colleagues and I on Education and Workforce Committee have identified 4 pillars of reform to tackle some of these pressing issues. I shared our ideas with the folks attending the roundtables and listened to the feedback they provided. The attendees were excited about our plan and I look forward to taking their suggestions to the Committee and getting these reforms across the finish line in D.C.” The House Education and the Workforce Committee has laid out four pillars of reform, including: Empowering students and families to make informed decisions Simplifying and improve student aid Promoting innovation, access, and completion Ensuring strong accountability and a limited federal role ###
10.12.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after President Trump signed an Executive Order promoting healthcare choice and competition across the United States: “I applaud President Trump's action to improve access, increase choices and lower costs of healthcare today. The healthcare debate is far from over, and while this is a step in the right direction, Congressional Republicans are still dedicated to codifying a permanent solution to the Obamacare nightmare into law.” For more information on the Executive Order please click here. ###
10.05.2017	The U.S. House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2018 Budget today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in response to passage of the Building a Better America budget: “In the real world, if you don’t balance your budget, you go out of business. Our country has been heading down a dangerous path for the past decade—but we can make a change to get back on track for future generations. “That’s why I was proud to vote for the House Budget Committee’s budget that balances within 10 years, provides for the National defense, and cuts more than $200 billion in mandatory spending. Not only will this budget put us on a sustainable spending path, but it paves the way for tax reform. “Tax reform affects everyone, and millions of Americans are looking to Congress to fix our broken tax code. The passage of the FY 18 budget unlocks pro-growth tax reform, which will put money back in the pockets of hardworking Americans and make our tax code simple, affordable and competitive.” For more detailed information on the Unified Framework for Fixing our Broken Tax Code, please visit fairandsimple.gop. ###
10.03.2017	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act today. This legislation will protect unborn children from abortion at 20 weeks, when it is scientifically proven that unborn babies feel pain. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) cosponsored this legislation, and spoke in support of the bill on the House Floor: “I rise today to urge my colleagues to support the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. We have a responsibility to defend the most vulnerable in our nation and that’s exactly what this legislation does. It protects unborn children from abortion at five months. “It is truly disheartening that I have to beg many of my colleagues to support a bill like this, when it is scientifically proven that unborn babies feel pain after five months. Premature infants in the NICU are protected from pain - Children in the womb should be protected from pain also. I will always fight for the right to life and I believe we have a responsibility to defend all innocent lives. “In fact, this hits close to home. I have four children, one son and three daughters – and I have had to see my wife and each one of my daughters suffer through difficult pregnancies and make difficult choices. I can’t imagine life without any one of my twelve beautiful grandchildren – every child should be given a chance at life. “New life is created by God and we must give a voice to these precious babies who cannot speak for themselves. Our nation can and must protect the most vulnerable among us.” ###
09.29.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in response to U.S. Secretary of Energy Rick Perry’s announcement that they will offer conditional commitments for up to$3.7 billion in loan guarantees to Plant Vogtle owners: “Georgia’s 12th Congressional district and Plant Vogtle are at the forefront of nuclear energy expansion, where they are constructing two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years. I extend my deepest gratitude to Secretary Perry for his renewed commitment to Plant Vogtle. With today’s investment announcement, the Department of Energy recognizes that the future of nuclear energy in America depends on this important project.” ###
09.29.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) held a telephone town hall on Monday to answer questions from citizens who live in the 12th district of Georgia. Congressman Allen released the following statement today: “On Monday, I was able to connect with thousands of people from across the 12th district of Georgia on a telephone town hall. It was a pleasure to be able to give them an update on my work in Washington and in the district and to hear their questions. I was also able to ask poll questions to get a pulse of the district, and a snapshot of how people in the 12th district feel about important issues facing the nation. The feedback is extremely helpful to me and my staff in order to better serve everyone in Georgia-12. Thank you to everyone who participated!” For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Dale from Augusta asked why the Senate and House don’t want to utilize American capitalism for healthcare: Congressman Allen: “The only way to bring down prices is competition and you made your point and made it very well. Free market is the way to do that, not only in the delivery of healthcare systems, but also in the insurance industry. We have very few insurance companies, right now…and we want insurance companies competing for our business. Our legislation we passed back in May provided for that. We also provided for those who have pre-existing conditions, and we were going to provide for a free market solution. We were going to return the relationship back to the doctor and the patient. These are things or initiatives that we must do if we’re going to bring down healthcare costs and healthcare premiums.” Fred from Statesboro asked why Congress refuses to support Trump: Congressman Allen: “I have voted 100% with the President’s agenda. Unfortunately, I’ve got some colleagues that don’t see it that way, and it is disappointing. Frankly, I’m probably as angry about it as everybody listening to this call. “Just keep praying and hopefully my colleagues will get in line. I know I can’t wait for Washington to get these things done, and I, like the President came from the business world, and these are great bills that will work for the American people. Again, I agree with the frustration level. Like I said, nobody is more frustrated than all of us here, and the Congress that is supporting our President and trying to move this country in a different direction.” David from Evans asked what Congress is doing to stop illegal immigration to get jobs back to Americans: Congressman Allen: “What we’ve had for the last eight years is open borders. “We have laws on the books. This Congress and this President are enforcing those laws, but there need to be reforms. If those laws are not working, we need to fix the laws and obey the laws. We need to build the wall. We appropriated 1.6 billion dollars [in the House] to build the wall along the southern border because there are other things along that southern border that are a problem like the drug trade, and again, to stop illegal immigration…” Gary from Baxley asked Congressman Allen’s thoughts on NAFTA: Congressman Allen: “The President is intent on getting this fixed. It needs to be fixed worldwide. I agree 100% with you, and, like I said, we’re tackling it, and thank goodness this President is very serious about this. I think he’s going to want to approach this thing from an individual standpoint, rather than a big global standpoint... we would look at doing deals with individual countries where we could benefit not only from our exports, but also from the import side. “I can assure you that we’re working on it, and we want to get our people in America back to work.” Paige from Statesboro asked about expanding career and technical education: Congressman Allen: “We have the greatest economic development opportunity probably in the history of, not only the 12th district of Georgia, but the state of Georgia. In fact, there are those who are moving to our area from Silicon Valley that are saying that we will be the Silicon Valley of the East Coast. Now, the one thing that’s going to prohibit that progress is a skilled workforce, and that’s why I am working so hard on things like authorization of our Career Technical Education Bill to ramp up this process because we have to get folks trained in coding and other things out there as soon as possible. “Fort Gordon is very involved. Augusta University is very involved. We had a meeting of all of our school superintendents in the district back in August to talk about these and many other opportunities and challenges that we’re going to be faced with on this workforce of the future. “…we have a great opportunity across this nation to finally grow this economy and get folks back to work. I’m excited about it. I’m excited about the challenges, and I want to thank you for what you’re doing [as a teacher] on behalf of our students. We are seeing some really good things around the district as we visit with our schools, and I’m hopeful that we can step up our game and meet this challenge.” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
09.27.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in response to release of the unified framework for fixing our broken tax code: “It has been over 30 years since our broken tax code was last reformed, but today, President Trump and the Republican Congress laid out a tax framework that will provide relief for hard-working Americans and jumpstart our economy. Bold reforms will increase paychecks, grow local businesses, and expand our economy in ways that we have not seen in a long time. Our plan will accomplish all of these goals, making the tax code affordable, simple, and competitive. It will allow middle class Americans to keep more of their hard-earned paychecks and level the playing field for American businesses and workers to bring jobs back home. The unified tax reform framework will protect the American dream for families and remove the tax burdens strangling our economy.” Please see below for highlights of the unified tax reform framework: Lowers Rates for Individuals and Families The framework shrinks the current seven tax brackets into three – 12%, 25% and 35% – with the potential for an additional top rate for the highest-income taxpayers to ensure that the wealthy do not contribute a lower share of taxes paid than they do today. Doubles the Standard Deduction and Enhances the Child Tax Credit The framework roughly doubles the standard deduction so that typical middle-class families will keep more of their paycheck. It also significantly increases the Child Tax Credit. Eliminates Loopholes for the Wealthy, Protects Bedrock Provisions for Middle Class To provide simplicity and fairness the framework eliminates many itemized deductions that are primarily used by the wealthy, but retains tax incentives for home mortgage interest and charitable contributions, as well as tax incentives for work, higher education, and retirement security. Repeals the Death Tax and Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) The framework repeals the unfair Death Tax and substantially simplifies the tax code by repealing the existing individual AMT, which requires taxpayers to do their taxes twice. Creates a New Lower Tax Rate and Structure for Small Businesses The framework limits the maximum tax rate for small and family-owned businesses to 25% - significantly lower than the top rate that these businesses pay today. To Create Jobs and Promote Competitiveness Lowers the Corporate Tax Rate So that America can compete on level playing field, the framework reduces the corporate tax rate to 20% – below the 22.5% average of the industrialized world. To Boost the Economy, Allows “Expensing” of Capital Investments The framework allows, for at least five years, businesses to immediately write off (or “expense”) the cost of new investments, giving a much-needed lift to the economy. Moves to an American Model for Competitiveness The framework ends the perverse incentive to offshore jobs and keep foreign profits overseas. It levels the playing field for American companies and workers. Brings Profits Back Home The framework brings home profits by imposing a one-time, low tax rate on wealth that has already accumulated overseas so there is no tax incentive to keeping the money offshore. ###
09.26.2017	Each year the United States House of Representatives sponsors a Congressional Art Competition for high school students. The “Artistic Discovery Competition” began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nationwide competition. For more information and official rules please visit https://allen.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. Please remember, artwork submitted must represent images that depict a scene from the 12th District of Georgia. All artwork must be submitted October 3rd – 5th at one of the following six drop-off locations: Augusta District Office: 2743 Perimeter Parkway, Bldg. 200, Suite 225, Augusta, GA 30909 (9 am – 5 pm) Dublin High School: 1127 Hillcrest Parkway, Dublin, GA 31021 Appling County High School: 482 Blackshear Highway, Baxley, GA 31513 Vidalia Heritage Academy Upper School: 207 East Second Street, Vidalia, Georgia 30474 Statesboro High School: 10 Lester Rd, Statesboro, GA 30458 Emanuel County Institute: 102 S College St, Twin City, GA 30471 If you have any additional questions please contact Christine Rhodes in our Augusta District Office at (706) 228-1980 or Christine.Rhodes@mail.house.gov. ###
09.08.2017	Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after supporting legislation to provide hurricane relief funds: “I am disappointed that the Senate did not take up a clean bill to provide emergency relief funds and instead forced the House to vote on a last minute deal that includes a continuing resolution and debt ceiling extension. Here we are, yet again, kicking the can down the road. President Trump and my colleagues in Congress must advance conservative federal spending reforms as we were elected to do. “That being said, I believe Congress has a responsibility to provide emergency funding to those in need from these catastrophic events. With Americans still rebuilding from Hurricane Harvey and the potential havoc Hurricane Irma could cause in the Southeast, I could not, in good conscience, vote against this bill. “Please continue to keep everyone in the path of Hurricane Irma in your prayers.” ###
09.08.2017	President Trump issued an emergency declaration in Georgia today. This currently includes fourteen counties in Georgia’s 12th Congressional district, including: Appling, Bulloch, Burke, Camden, Candler, Coffee, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans, Jenkins, Jeff Davis, Screven, Tattnall, Toombs, and Treutlen counties. With this designation, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is authorized to provide federal resources, including direct Federal assistance. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement: “I thank the Federal Emergency Management Agency and President Trump for issuing an Emergency Declaration for counties in my district and throughout Southeast Georgia in a timely manner. I am proud that our President is taking these hurricanes seriously, and I believe his actions will save lives. Having this designation will aid our families and businesses in rebuilding after any damage from Hurricane Irma.” Hurricane Irma is one of the strongest hurricanes on record – it is imperative that you prepare for this storm. For preparedness tips and useful information please visit: Federal Emergency Management Agency Georgia Department of Agriculture Hurricane Response Center Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency Make Your Own Ready Kit Ready.Ga.Gov Ready.Gov Download the Ready Georgia mobile app. Download the FEMA mobile app. State of Emergency County Contacts from GEMA: Appling: 912-367-8170 Burke: 706-554-6651 Bulloch: 912-489-1661 Candler: 912-685-4600 Coffee: 912-389-1705 Effingham: 912-754-8888 Emanuel: 478-237-3169 Evans: 912-739-1991 Jenkins: 478-982-6112 Jeff Davis: 912-375-6628 Screven: 912-564-2709 Tattnall: 912-557-6820 Toombs: 912-526-6424 Treutlen: 478-595-8472 ###
09.07.2017	Governor Deal has expanded his emergency declaration to include fourteen counties in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District, following a recommendation from Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in response to the expanded emergency declaration: “Today, Governor Deal expanded the State of Emergency Declaration to include Appling, Burke, Bulloch, Candler, Coffee, Effingham, Emanuel, Evans, Jenkins, Jeff Davis, Screven, Tattnall, Toombs, and Treutlen counties. Hurricane Irma is one of the strongest hurricanes on record—and for all in these communities, it is imperative that you prepare for this storm. I pray for the safety of everyone in Hurricane Irma’s path.” For preparedness tips and useful information please visit: Federal Emergency Management Agency Georgia Department of Agriculture Hurricane Response Center Georgia Emergency Management & Homeland Security Agency Georgia Power Outage & Storm Center Make Your Own Ready Kit Ready.Ga.Gov Ready.Gov Download the Ready Georgia mobile app. Download the FEMA mobile app. State of Emergency County Contacts from GEMA: Appling: 912-367-8170 Burke: 706-554-6651 Bulloch: 912-489-1661 Candler: 912-685-4600 Coffee: 912-389-1705 Effingham: 912-754-8888 Emanuel: 478-237-3169 Evans: 912-739-1991 Jenkins: 478-982-6112 Jeff Davis: 912-375-6628 Screven: 912-564-2709 Tattnall: 912-557-6820 Toombs: 912-526-6424 Treutlen: 478-595-8472 ###
09.05.2017	Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s move to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “It is the job of Congress to write our laws, and President Obama’s DACA program was a clear example of executive overreach. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to find a feasible permanent solution. I thank President Trump for keeping his promise to the American people to work with Congress on meaningful immigration reform.” ###
08.31.2017	Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA) released the following statement in support of the announcement that construction will be completed on Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4: "I am thankful for Georgia Power, Oglethorpe Power, MEAG Power and Dalton Utilities' continued investment in Plant Vogtle. More than 6,000 people in my district are employed by Plant Vogtle, where they are constructing two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years. "With today’s announcement, Georgia-12 continues to be at the forefront of nuclear energy expansion in the United States. In order to continue to be a dominant player in the global nuclear industry, invest in our own energy independence and provide clean, low cost energy to Georgians – it is vital to continue this project and I applaud the owners in making what I know was a tough decision. I will continue to do all I can to support these projects, because the future of nuclear energy in America depends on it." ###
07.28.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) held a telephone town hall on Monday to answer questions from citizens who live in the 12th district of Georgia. Congressman Allen released the following statement today: “On Monday, I was able to connect with thousands of people from across the 12th district of Georgia on a telephone town hall. It was a pleasure to be able to give them an update on my work in Washington and to hear their questions. I was also able to ask poll questions to get a pulse of the district, and a snapshot of how people in the 12th district feel about important issues facing the nation. The feedback from this group of constituents is extremely helpful to me and my staff in order to better serve everyone in Georgia-12. Thank you to everyone who participated!” For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: Betty from Girard asked if there is anything else Congressman Allen can do to support the President’s agenda: Congressman Allen: “I was interviewed by the Atlanta Journal Constitution just a week ago and the first question was, ‘according to the legislation you have supported the president’s agenda 100% of the time’ and I said ‘yes ma’am that is correct.’ I said ‘we, the House, met a year ago, we developed the better way agenda, the president ran on it,we all ran on it, and that’s what the House has-been doing.’ “I feel good about our progress, unfortunately there’s so much noise it seems to keep quiet what we’re doing, but we’ve got our heads down, we are working.” Jeanne from Augusta asked if the government can redirect more funds to technical colleges and career education: Rep. Allen: “I’m on Education and Workforce Committee and we [the House] have just authorized this career and technical education $1 billion program for 2018 and it passed… what was great it passed with bi partisan support, and the other thing that we added in this program that I’m excited about is accountability. In other words, too many times the federal government gets involved in these programs and they just fund them and try and get them and try and make them successful. …Two things were doing: we’re giving a lot of leeway to folks across not only Georgia but across the country… the other thing is we want to be accountable to our taxpayers, and we want to know how these students are doing, and then that we’re actually getting these jobs filled that need to be filled. But yes that has just been authorized and should become law hopefully in not too distant future.” Robert from Vidalia asked if there will be future social security increases: Rep. Allen: “There is a great future for raises in Social Security; it’s called a robust economy. Social security is indexed to the economy and cost of living. We are seeing great signs in this economy. I talk to business people often. I was on the phone all day Friday, calling one particular county to see how things are. And I tell you, there is a lot of optimism about the economy. If the economy grows you are going to create some inflation, which some inflation is good. As you have inflation and the cost index increases, then social security is tied directly to that. I see a robust economy in our future if the opposition party gets out of the way and allows the Trump agenda to move forward.” Gloria from Augusta asked about raising the minimum wage: Rep. Allen: “I’ll tell you from a business standpoint. Each one of our folks in our company, those who start in our industry all make above minimum wage… Frankly what we’ve seen is if you raise the minimum wage, you actually decrease employment. Because folks have got to start somewhere, and a lot of these businesses cannot pay folks who are starting at the $15-$20 mark. “We’ve got six and half million jobs open now. I talked to a gentleman in the trucking industry just yesterday down in Douglas Ga. And he is paying his truck drivers between $20-$25 an hour. He has a dozen jobs open right now. So it looks like to me that business is going to drive this.” Ed from Statesboro asked about defunding Planned Parenthood: Rep. Allen: “Our healthcare bill provides for the defunding for one year of Planned Parenthood, and of course you say that’s just one year, but the importance is, if we can do without it that one year, then hopefully we can end it. Planned Parenthood is the biggest abortion provider in the United States. Obviously we have protections that do not allow taxpayer-funded abortions, but at the same time, how can we fund someone who is in that business? “You know we have community health centers-- that is the solution. We are seeing those spring up. In fact it really helps contain healthcare costs…. Frankly we are hoping that they put Planned Parenthood out of business, and we won’t have to deal with them.” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
07.27.2017	Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement after House passage of H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act: “As a Member of Congress, my number one priority is keeping America safe. That is why I was so proud to vote for the Make America Secure Appropriations Act, providing unprecedented levels of support for our American Heroes and funds to build the wall and secure our borders. The safety and security of our great nation should never be compromised or put in jeopardy. That is why it is imperative for the Senate to quickly pass this legislation and deliver it to the President’s desk. I made a pledge to build the wall, and as the President and Vice President always say, promises made, promises kept.” H.R. 3219, the Make America Secure Appropriations Act will: Provide $1.6 billion to secure our Southern Border – 100% of what President Trump requested. Boost base funding for the Department of Defense by $68.1 billion to continue rebuilding our military. Fully fund the authorized 2.4% pay raise for our troops. Fully fund the projects at Fort Gordon authorized in the House-passed National Defense Authorization Act. Provide the highest level of funding ever for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Allow the Administrator of the EPA and Secretary of the Army to withdraw from the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule Boost funding for Capitol Police to keep Members of Congress, their staffs and constituents safe. Continue the pay freeze for Members of Congress. ###
07.14.2017	The House of Representatives passed the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) today. The NDAA is an annual defense bill that authorizes defense spending and sets priorities for the U.S. military. This year’s NDAA will begin to rebuild America’s military after years of underfunding. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement: “As a member of Congress, one of the most important votes I cast each year is for the NDAA. I am proud to support this critical legislation that reaffirms our commitment to the hardworking men and women who serve our country and authorizes essential funding for national security. “Equipping our armed forces with the tools to build a military of the 21st Century is vital to modern warfare. This bill bolsters cyber operation funding, authorizing $8 billion dollars – an increase of $1.7 billion from Fiscal Year 2017. Our district is at the forefront of cyber innovation with the U.S. Army Cyber Command’s move to Fort Gordon. I was proud to vote for over $85 million in military construction projects and Army family housing to be spent on base. “It is Congress’ constitutional obligation to provide for the common defense and with today’s passage of the FY18 NDAA, I believe that we have met our obligation to keep America safe and close the critical readiness gap. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to quickly take up this crucial bill.” Today Congressman Allen voted to: Provide a well-deserved 2.4% pay raise for our troops. Authorize $85 million for military construction projects at Fort Gordon, including Army Family Housing. Fully fund cyber operations. Authorize $1.3 billion for the Savannah River Site. Authorize $340 million for continued construction of the MOX facility. For more detailed information on the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act, please click here. ###
06.29.2017	The House of Representatives passed two key bills to crack down on illegal immigration. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act combats sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Kate’s Law increases mandatory penalties for aliens who illegally re-enter the United States. The bills passed today are named for Sarah Root, Grant Ronnebeck and Kate Steinle; innocent Americans who lost their lives due to dangerous sanctuary city policies. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) spoke in support of the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act on the House floor today: “I rise to support H.R. 3003, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act. Many cities across America have adopted “sanctuary” policies over the past few years – this is an obvious disregard of federal law and puts American lives at risk. “In my home state of Georgia, sanctuary cities have been have been outlawed since 2009. And last year Georgia’s law was amended to require local governments to certify they’re cooperating with federal immigration officials, in order to get state funding. “The way I see it – the law is the law. Sanctuary city policies are dangerous to all American communities as they can shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. President Trump promised to end sanctuary cities - and this is the first step towards keeping that promise. “How many more innocent American lives need to be stolen because our immigration laws are not being enforced? No person or city is above the law – and that is why my colleagues and I passed this very important bill today.” ###
06.28.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) held a telephone town hall on Friday to answer questions from senior citizens who live in the 12th district of Georgia. Congressman Allen released the following statement today: “Last Friday, I was able to connect with thousands of seniors from across the 12th district of Georgia on a telephone town hall. It was a pleasure to be able to give them an update on my work in Washington and to hear their questions. I was also able to ask poll questions to get a pulse of the district, and a snapshot of how people in the 12th district feel about important issues facing the nation. The feedback I received is extremely helpful to me and my staff in order to better serve everyone in Georgia-12. Thank you to everyone who participated!” For those who were unable to participate in the call, here are some of the highlights: William from Jenkins County asked if Congressman Allen supported Trump vigorously Congressman Allen: “Yes, sir…. The people spoke last November and said we want to change; we want to change the direction of this country- that’s why I ran for office. The President is a business man, I’m a business man and I think he ran for the same reason. Because obviously he has children and grandchildren and if we don’t change, we are on an unsustainable path in this country and we have to change it. “I will tell you this, I am working very hard. About a year ago we released what we call the Better Way, the President has endorsed that fully, tax reform which we already talked about is part of that…” Michelle from Hazlehurst asked what Congress is doing to support the role of local communities in Education: Congressman Allen: “Well let me just tell you, what we did, in fact we did in the 114th Congress is, we passed the greatest reform. Newt Gingrich said it was the greatest reform in 25 years in education; in fact I was with our state school superintendent just a week or so ago in Atlanta and talked about what we’re doing. We repealed No Child Left Behind, which was a compliance nightmare for our teachers. We are block granting education funds from the federal government to the states, giving the states full control of our education system, states and local boards of education. We think that’s the best way to fix our education process… “There are two big disconnects out there, one is young people really don’t know why they’re getting an education, and secondly the business community really hasn’t connected with the education community to inform young people of the opportunities available to them. We’ve got to do a better job of that. “We’ve got a lot of people out of work; we’ve got young people looking for opportunities. There are going to be more opportunities as this economy responds to everything we’re doing and the economy begins to grow. And yes, we have got to ramp up our education and get it to the 21st century….” Harry from Evans asked Congressman Allen his thoughts on modernizing and simplifying the tax code: Congressman Allen: “Yes sir and I agree with you 100%. …We’re going through drafting the legislation and what not, but again it’s a timing issue and you know up here everything is procedural. I’d like to snap my fingers - in fact if you put me in charge for a day, we’d get this done, but it doesn’t exactly work like that. “We’d like to get the budget behind us, and if we can get that behind us … we’ll be totally committed to tax reform and that will give us ample time to get that done.” Sonia from Baxley asked for more information on Trump’s budget and how it affects the national debt: Congressman Allen: “Well that is a very complicated question. Let me tell you what we are doing. If we can get health care reform done and if we can get tax reform done, we are going to lower the deficit. “President Trump is committed to getting folks back to work in this country; I’m committed to getting people back to work in this country. If we accomplish that, we will balance the budget and begin to pay off the debt which is crucial to the future of this country.” If you would like to sign up for the next telephone town hall, please sign up here. If you would like to learn more about the work Congressman Allen is doing in Washington, please sign up for his weekly e-newsletter here. ###
06.27.2017	In response to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) announcement that it is repealing the Obama Administration’s Waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule, Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement: “The WOTUS rule was flawed from the beginning, and I applaud EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt’s action to rescind this regulation. WOTUS was yet another attempt by the previous administration to undermine the rights of states, local governments and landowners by allowing the federal government to regulate backyard streams and puddles. “Our farmers work each and every day to care for our land and preserve it for generations to come. I am happy to see the Trump Administration empowering America’s farmers and taking another step towards removing the overreaching hand of government from their everyday lives. In February, I introduced H.R. 1105, legislation to repeal the WOTUS rule and now that the EPA has rescinded the rule, Congress must codify this language to ensure WOTUS can never become a reality under any future administrations.” ###
06.22.2017	The Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act passed the House of Representatives by voice vote today. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) cosponsored this important bipartisan legislation. As a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Allen spoke in support of the legislation on the House floor earlier today: “I rise in support of H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education Act for the 21st Century. “Last week, President Trump laid out his plan to expand educational opportunities for American workers. President Trump’s dedication to workforce development is admirable, and I’m glad that we have a President who has made this a priority. “As someone who has worked in the construction industry for my entire career, I know firsthand how difficult it can be to find skilled workers. In fact, I spoke at the Associated Builders and Contractors breakfast this morning, and they reported that there will be over 1 million job openings in the construction industry in the next few years. “I have met with many industries in my district - the workforce is aging, there aren’t enough people who currently have the skills to take over, and it can take nearly two years for people to be fully trained for these positions. First and foremost, it is our responsibility to make sure that young people today are equipped for the job market of tomorrow. “Getting an education is essential, but it is equally important that our education efforts are aligned with the in-demand jobs in our communities. This bill will bridge the gap between the business community and education, which is critical to prepare America’s future workforce. I am happy to cosponsor this important bill– and I hope that my colleagues will join me in voting for H.R. 2353.” ###
06.20.2017	The House voted unanimously to restore Congress’ original intent for the Nuclear Production Tax Credit by passing H.R. 1551 today. This legislation will modify the Nuclear Production Tax Credit to extend the 2020 sunset date until the reactors are up and running. The modification of this tax credit will not cost any additional taxpayer funds, but will signal to the rest of the world that America is leading the way in nuclear production. This is particularly important in the 12th District of Georgia, where due to unforeseen events and regulatory delays, Plant Vogtle’s timeline for construction of Units 3 and 4 is likely no longer feasible. Plant Vogtle employs more than 6,000 people in Georgia-12. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) spoke on the House Floor in support of this legislation and issued the following statement: “I was proud to support this legislation which will help to expand our nation’s nuclear energy resources, at no cost to taxpayers. My district is leading the way in this expansion, constructing two of the first new nuclear reactors in the United States in more than 30 years. In order to continue to be a dominant player in the global nuclear industry, invest in our own energy independence, and provide clean, low cost energy to Georgians, we must do all we can to continue these projects-- the future of nuclear energy in America depends on it.” ###
06.14.2017	Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in reaction to this morning’s shooting at the Congressional baseball practice in Alexandria, VA: “My thoughts and prayers are with everyone affected by this morning’s senseless shooting at the Congressional baseball practice. As we continue to learn more about these events I hope everyone in Georgia-12 will join me in praying for a speedy recovery for House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, Zachary Barth, Matt Mika, Special Agent David Bailey and Special Agent Crystal Griner. I would also like to express my deep gratitude to Capitol Police for their bravery in the face of danger, and for always keeping me and my staff safe here in Washington, D.C. “On a day like today, we are one united Congressional family. This senseless act of violence is inexcusable and I just thank God that it was not worse.” ###
06.13.2017	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) voted in favor of S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017 today. This legislation will give America’s veterans the quality medical care they deserve by holding bad actors at the VA accountable. Congressman Allen issued the following statement: “Americans have heard far too many stories about the failures at the Department of Veterans Affairs in the past few years, and there are many VA employees who have not been held accountable for their actions. Today we have taken an important step to provide our nation’s heroes with the best treatment possible. This bill creates a new process for VA employees to be fired for wrongdoing or incompetency. In the 12th district of Georgia, we have two VA hospitals that are invaluable to our veterans who need quality medical care. I hear from veterans across my district about the quality care they receive, and I am proud to support this legislation that will put all VA hospitals on track to providing the best care possible for veterans. The next stop for this important bill is President Trump’s desk, and I look forward to the day when this is the law of the land.” For more information on S. 1094 please click here. ###
06.08.2017	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 10, the Financial CHOICE Act by a vote of 233-186 today. Sponsored by House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX-5), the bill title stands for Creating Hope and Opportunity for Investors, Consumers and Entrepreneurs. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in support of the Financial CHOICE Act: “In the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis, House Democrats, under the leadership of Speaker Pelosi, made empty promises to the American people with the Dodd-Frank Act. In Georgia, we saw firsthand the negative effect of Dodd-Frank on our financial sector, with more than 90 banks closing their doors. Today, House Republicans have finally fixed the broken promises of the Obama Administration by passing the Financial CHOICE Act. This legislation will deliver regulatory relief to community banks across America and will end taxpayer-funded bailouts, once and for all. I was proud to vote for this important legislation today.” In recent weeks, Congressman Allen heard from community bankers across the 12th District, urging his support of the Financial CHOICE Act. Congressman Allen heard from a community banker at a Middle Georgia Bank based in Dublin, GA: “The CHOICE Act will go a long way toward letting community bankers be bankers again rather than paper-filler-outers for the government. All bankers want is to be able to take chances on people who have dreams and those dreamers don’t always fit in the neat boxes drawn by Washington bureaucrats. Dodd-Frank was supposed to stop abuses on Wall Street, but in doing so, it’s tamped down lending on Main Street and required all banks especially smaller ones to spend an inordinate amount of money on checking governmental boxes versus utilizing both those time and monetary resources to help individuals and small businesses climb a little further up the economic ladder. Dodd Frank with its onerous rules and regulations has tried to paint us as folks just looking to take advantage of our customers. No community banker would ever purposely take advantage of a customer that they will constantly see in church, at a community event or a kid’s baseball game. That would be suicide to our business model and everything we stand for. CHOICE is the first effort to let community bankers get back to doing what they know best: serving the needs of their communities…” The Financial CHOICE Act will: Provide regulatory relief from the post Dodd-Frank supervisory regime for banking organizations that maintain high levels of capital. (Most community banks already maintain the level of capital required to be eligible for regulatory relief.) End “Too Big to Fail” and bank bailouts once and for all by creating a new chapter of the bankruptcy code to accommodate the failure of a large complex financial institution. Impose enhanced penalties for financial fraud and self-dealing and promote greater transparency and accountability in the civil enforcement process. Make all financial regulatory agencies subject to the REINS Act, and place them under the appropriations process so that Congress can exercise proper oversight. Unleash opportunities for small business, innovators and job creators by removing sections and titles of the Dodd-Frank Act that limit capital formation. Empower Americans to achieve financial independence by fundamentally reforming the CFPB and protecting investors and retirement savings. Repeal the Department of Labor’s harmful fiduciary rule. Lower the deficit by $33.6 billion over 10 years. ###
05.30.2017	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced his staff will be holding Community Office Hours across the 12th district during the month of June. These office hours offer the opportunity for constituents to receive personal assistance from Congressman Allen’s office in their local communities. There will be no formal presentation nor will Congressman Allen be in attendance. The office hours are about one-on-one visits between staff and GA-12 constituents. Staff will be available to assist with a number of federal issues, including problems with federal agencies, such as Social Security, Veterans Affairs, Medicare, and others. Congressman Allen stated, “Constituent service is a top priority of mine, and my staff and I stand ready to help with issues at the federal level. I am pleased to offer this opportunity for my office to provide constituents direct assistance closer to home.” Please see below for a list of Community Office Hours dates, times and locations by County: Columbia County Office Hours Thursday, June 1, 2017, 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. City Hall of Grovetown 103 Old Wrightsboro Road Grovetown, GA Coffee County Office Hours Tuesday, June 6, 2017, 9:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Douglas-Coffee County Chamber of Commerce 114 North Peterson Avenue Douglas, GA 31533 Jeff Davis County Office Hours Tuesday, June 6, 2017, 2:00 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Hazelhurst-Jeff Davis County Chamber of Commerce 95 East Jarmin Street Hazlehurst, GA 31539 Burke County Office Hours Thursday, June 8, 2017, 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. County Commission Boardroom, Burke County Courthouse 111 E. 6th Street Waynesboro, GA Effingham County Office Hours Thursday, June 8, 2017, 1:00 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Effingham County Board of Commissioners Administrative Complex 601 N. Laurel Street Springfield, GA Screven County Office Hours Thursday, June 8, 2017, 3:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Screven County Courthouse, Commission Boardroom 216 Mims Road Sylvania, GA Treutlen County Office Hours Friday, June 9, 2017, 9:00 a.m. - 10:30 a.m. Treutlen County Commissioners Office 1830 Martin Luther King Jr. Drive Soperton, GA Montgomery County Office Hours Friday, June 9, 2017, 11:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. Montgomery County Courthouse 400 S. Railroad Street Mount Vernon, GA Wheeler County Office Hours Friday, June 9, 2017, 1:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Alamo City Hall 105 Commerce St. Alamo, GA Candler County Office Hours Thursday, June 15, 2017, 9:30 a.m.-11:00 a.m. Metter City Hall 49 S. Roundtree St. Metter, GA 30439 Jenkins County Office Hours Thursday, June 15, 2017, 3:30 p.m. - 5:00 p.m. Millen City Hall 919 College Avenue Millen, GA Emanuel County Office Hours Thursday, June 15, 2017 12:30 p.m. - 3:00 p.m. Emanuel County Commission Board Room 101 N. Main St. Swainsboro, GA Appling County Office Hours Wednesday, June 21, 2017, 9:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. Appling Courthouse Annex, Commissioners Meeting Room 69 Tippins Street Baxley, GA Tattnall County Office Hours Wednesday, June 21, 2017, 12:30 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. Glennville Welcome Center 136 South Veterans Boulevard Glennville, GA Evans County Office Hours Wednesday, June 21, 2017, 2:30 p.m. - 4:00 p.m. Claxton City Hall 206 W. Railroad Avenue Claxton, GA ###
05.26.2017	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) invites constituents in the Toombs County area to join him for “Coffee with the Congressman” on Tuesday, May 30 at 7:30am in Lyons, Ga. This event provides an opportunity for constituents to speak personally with Congressman Allen and ask questions regarding issues at the federal level and legislation before Congress. “Hearing from Georgians in the 12th district is the most important part of my job. I hope constituents in Toombs County will join me to share what is on their minds and the issues facing families, individuals and businesses in the community,” said Congressman Allen. WHAT: Coffee with Congressman Rick Allen WHEN: Tuesday, May 30, 2017 at 7:30 a.m. WHERE: Chatters 674 NW Broad Street Lyons, GA 30436 ###
05.25.2017	Georgia Peanut Commission Press Release The Georgia Peanut Commission issued comments today in full support of the proposed rule issued in the Federal Register regarding a recommendation from the Peanut Standards Board to revise the minimum quality and handling standards for domestic and imported peanuts marketed in the United States. The Peanut Standards Board voted in the fall of 2016 to raise the grading score used to classify farmer stock peanuts as SEG 1’s from 2.49 percent to 3.49 percent. This effort would also adjust Segregation 2 requirements to reflect this change. The Georgia Peanut Commission encourages the U.S. Department of Agriculture to allow this change to become effective for the 2017 crop. U.S. Congressman Rick Allen, R-Georgia, also offered his support of the revision. “As a Representative from a major peanut-producing district, I applaud the U.S. Department of Agriculture for their proposed changes to peanut quality standards requirements. These proposed changes align with the recommendations of the Peanut Standards Board and I believe these changes will greatly reduce the burden on peanut growers in my district and across the United States,” Allen says. “I urge all affected parties to comment during this open comment period and encourage the USDA to finalize a rule in time to be applied to the 2017 crop.” The Peanut Standards Board recommended this change to align the incoming standards with recent changes to the outgoing quality standards and to help increase returns to peanut producers. “Segregation 1 peanut standards are an ancient regulation and the technology in the industry is vastly improved,” says Armond Morris, chairman of the Georgia Peanut Commission. “A similar action was granted to the peanut processors last year on outgoing regulations so it only makes sense growers should be afforded the same revision in the rules.” The Georgia Peanut Commission encourages all peanut farmers to comment on the proposed rule which is available online at www.regulations.gov. All comments must be submitted to the Office of the Docket Clerk by June 26, 2017. Comments must be sent to the Docket Clerk, Marketing Order and Agreement Division, Specialty Crops Program, AMS, USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., STOP 0237, Washington, DC 20250–0237; Fax: (202) 720–8938; or Internet: www.regulations.gov. All comments should reference the document number (AMS–SC–16–0102; SC16–996–3 PR) and the date (May 25, 2017) and page number (24082) of this issue of the Federal Register. The Peanut Standards Board,authorized under the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, consists of 18 members representing the peanut growing regions of the U.S. The United States Department of Agriculture consults with the board to establish or change quality and handling standards for domestically produced and imported peanuts. The recommendation from the Peanut Standards Board will now be taken under consideration by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Any comments on the recommendation should be submitted to the Office of the Docket Clerk by June 26, 2017. ###
05.24.2017	The Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 256-165 today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) cosponsored this legislation to remove duplicative provisions regarding pesticide regulations under the Clean Water Act. Congressman Allen spoke in support of this legislation on the House floor earlier today: “Thank you Mr. Speaker and thank you to the Gentleman from Ohio for his work on this important legislation. Today I rise in support of H.R. 953 the Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act. This legislation will bring much-needed relief to our American farmers. They put in a great deal of time and money to deal with duplicative regulations like the one we are addressing here today. This bill will take away needless provisions regarding pesticide regulations under the Clean Water Act. Pesticide applications are already federally regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act. This permitting was unnecessary, and duplicative – punishing American farmers due to a misguided court decision. In my district in Georgia, farmers have to deal with a variety of environmental difficulties – like the devastating freeze just this last March. The Federal Government should not be adding redundant mandates to already over-burdened farmers. The Reducing Regulatory Burdens Act has been passed out of the House Agriculture Committee five times. It is time for Congress to correct this mistake and give farmers and pesticide applicators much-needed relief, once and for all. As a proud cosponsor of the bill, I urge my colleagues to support this important legislation.” ###
05.17.2017	The House Education and the Workforce Committee passed H.R. 2353, the Strengthening Career and Technical Education for the 21st Century Act unanimously out of committee today. This bipartisan legislation updates outdated federal laws which no longer reflect the realities of the American job market. H.R. 2353 will allow state leaders to invest federal funds in efforts that prioritize economic growth and local needs for today’s economy. Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in support of this bill: “As a member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee with over 40 years of experience in the business world, I am proud to send this legislation to the full House of Representatives for consideration. Getting an education is extremely important, but it is equally important that our education efforts are aligned with the in-demand jobs of today. This legislation ensures that local business leaders are involved in the development of career and technical education, thereby giving students the skills they need to compete for jobs in their local communities. It is critical to prepare America’s future workforce early on by bridging the gap between the business community and education. I believe this legislation will do just that, and I urge my colleagues to support this bill.” ###
05.04.2017	The House of Representatives passed legislation today that will repeal and replace Obamacare, once and for all. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) released the following statement in support of the American Health Care Act: “For seven years, Americans have been subject to Obamacare. Premiums have skyrocketed, coverage has dwindled and access to physicians has decreased. Some Georgians in the 12th District have only one choice when it comes to insurance providers—and often not the choice they want. Enough is enough. Today, I supported the American Health Care Act because President Trump and Congress made a promise to repeal and replace Obamacare. President Trump has said he is behind our efforts 100%, and I am committed to fighting to restore patient-centered, cost-effective and market-driven solutions to our health care system. Simply put, my goal is to have a healthcare system that works for my constituents, and I believe the American Health Care Act is the answer. I call on my colleagues in the Senate to quickly take up this legislation so that those in Georgia’s 12th district and throughout the country can find relief from the binds of our failing health care system.” The American Health Care Act: Dismantles Obamacare taxes Eliminates individual and employer mandate penalties Guarantees coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions Helps young adults access insurance by allowing dependents to continue staying on their parents’ plan until they are 26 Empowers individuals and families to spend their health care dollars the way they want my strengthening Health Savings Accounts Establishes a patient and state stability fund to meet unique needs of their patient populations Modernizes and strengthens Medicaid Protects current Medicaid beneficiaries Provides monthly tax credits to low and middle-income individuals and families who do not receive healthcare through work or government program ###
05.03.2017	Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) voted in support of the bipartisan funding bill that passed the House of Representatives today: “The people of Georgia’s 12th district expect me to vote in their best interest, and today I believe I have done that. While this bill is far from perfect, I believe we must support President Trump and his priorities. We must continue to strengthen the security of our homeland, and this bill includes the largest increase in border security in ten years. It also provides increased defense spending, including nearly one billion dollars for cyber operations, like those in our district at Fort Gordon. Moving forward, I am hopeful that our unified Republican government can return to regular order as we begin the budget process for next year.” In Georgia, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017: Fully supports cyber operations, including those at Fort Gordon, by providing $6.7 billion for Department of Defense cyber operations, an increase of $992 million. Includes $42.7 million for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project. Provides a 2.1 percent pay raise for the more than 100,000 active duty service members stationed in Georgia. Provides funding for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation Activities, including $335 million in funding to help fulfill the international commitment by the U.S. to operate a Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility to dispose of surplus plutonium at the Savannah River Site. Includes $2.89 billion for Agriculture research, including the Agriculture & Food Research Initiative (AFRI), which funds important research programs at the University of Georgia. For all Americans, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017: Protects life by renewing the Hyde amendment, which prohibits federal funding of abortions. It also prohibits the District of Columbia from using federal funds for abortion and does NOT include any specific funding for Planned Parenthood. Increases defense funding by $25.7 billion over fiscal year 2016’s budget. Provides $8.2 billion for emergency and disaster funding, including funds that will be used to help recover from storms in South Georgia. Includes provisions protecting 2nd Amendment rights. Does NOT provide any new funding for Obamacare. ###
05.02.2017	The Working Families Flexibility Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 229-197 today. Congressman Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) supported this legislation to empower hardworking families to better balance work and family obligations. As a member of the Education and the Workforce Committee, Congressman Allen spoke in support of this legislation on the House floor earlier today: “Mr. Speaker, today I rise in support of H.R. 1180, the Working Families Flexibility Act. Many Americans can relate to the difficulties of balancing work duties with family obligations. It’s not always easy to attend a parent teacher conference, care for an aging parent, or stay home with a newborn when outdated federal laws create constant barriers to workplace flexibility. H.R. 1180 will amend the outdated Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 and bring much-needed reform to the workplace. It will give employers the freedom to offer employees a choice between cash wages and comp time for overtime hours worked. I emphasize, this is a voluntary option, which means that employees who want to receive cash wages can continue to do so, and if they choose to accept comp time and change their mind, allows workers to withdraw and receive cash wages whenever they choose. By passing this bill, American workers will gain more flexibility in the workplace allowing them to have more time to spend with the people they love. I urge my colleagues to support this commonsense legislation that supports our American workers.” ###
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON—U.S. Rep. Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement in response to the President’s executive order to end federal overreach in our education system: “As a proud member of the House Education and the Workforce Committee, I applaud President Trump on the signing of today’s executive order to ensure local leaders are free to make educational decisions. This executive order builds upon the principles set forth by a bill I championed, the Every Student Succeeds Act, which was signed into law in the last Congress. I believe that parents, local leaders and teachers know best and this executive order is another step closer to keeping Washington out of our Georgia classrooms.” ###
04.25.2017	U.S. Rep. Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement in response to the President’s executive order entitled “Promoting Agriculture and Rural Prosperity in America:” “Georgia’s hardworking farmers and rural communities deserve a government that serves their interests, and today President Trump has taken a tremendous step towards this goal. With today’s executive order, President Trump has directed Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue to lead the Interagency Task Force on Agriculture and Rural Prosperity. Following the Task Force’s report after 180 days, I look forward to working with them as a member of the House Agriculture Committee to identify and eliminate unnecessary regulations that hurt our rural communities.” ###
04.24.2017	U.S. Rep. Rick W. Allen (R-GA-12) issued the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of former Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue as Agriculture Secretary: “I congratulate Sonny Perdue on his confirmation to serve as Agriculture Secretary. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I look forward to working with him to advance the needs of our farmers and the industry as a whole. I am confident he will be a champion of rural America.” ###
03.17.2017	Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), joined by Representatives John Ratcliffe (R-TX), Pete Aguilar (D-CA), Ted W. Lieu (D-CA), Rick Allen (R-GA), and Hank Johnson (D-GA), today introduced the Department of Defense (DOD) Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017, legislation that would improve the cybersecurity workforce pipeline by reinvigorating and improving an existing DOD scholarship program for students pursuing degrees in cybersecurity fields. The bill is the House companion to S. 592, introduced by Senators Tim Kaine (D-VA), David Perdue (R-GA), and Mike Rounds (R-SD). “The Information Assurance Scholarship Program (IASP) has boosted the nation’s cyber forces through scholarships and grant opportunities at colleges and universities across the country, and has strengthened the Department of Defense as a result,” said Langevin, the co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus, who is also a senior member of the House Armed Services and Homeland Security Committees. “I have been a longtime supporter of these types of initiatives across the whole of government, and it is imperative we reinvigorate this program, which has done so much good for our superiority in cyberspace.” The DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act would rename the IASP as the DOD Cyber Scholarship Program, expand scholarships to students pursuing Associate’s Degrees, and authorize the scholarship program to receive $10 million in Fiscal Year 2018. Due to budget constraints, IASP stopped recruiting new students in 2013, starving the Department of needed cyber talent and increasing the difficulty of recruiting skilled professionals into government positions. “America needs the best and brightest to tackle the cybersecurity challenges we’re confronted with each day. Step one is making cybersecurity service to the nation more attractive. This bill increases educational opportunities for those who can help bolster United States’ own cyber workforce, which will strengthen our ability to face growing cybersecurity challenges both now and moving forward,” said Ratcliffe. “The strength of our national security is dependent on the investments we put into it. With the rapid advances we’ve seen in cyberwarfare, having a trained and prepared workforce is essential to protecting the homeland,” said Aguilar. “I am pleased to co-lead the bi-partisan DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act to provide $10 million in scholarship funds to aspiring cybersecurity students. As a Computer Science major myself, I am well aware of the threats facing our nation in the cybersecurity area. The DOD needs to have the best and brightest cybersecurity professionals with eager minds ready to put their education to work securing the nation’s military weapons systems and communication networks,” said Lieu. “A skilled workforce is the backbone of any and every field – and in cyberspace, we face different threats from our adversaries each and every day,” said Allen. “At Fort Gordon, in my district, our soldiers are on the front line of fighting these attacks – and in the changing electronic world we live, we must have the best and the brightest standing ready to support the needs of our military. I have always said we must encourage students to find their passions early on and allow those interests to be carried on throughout their educational careers – the cyber industry is yet another example. Augusta University is leading educational innovation in my district to prepare the next generation of cyber warriors. Investing in future generations makes it possible to field the cyber threats of today, tomorrow and years to come.” “I applaud this very important bicameral and bipartisan legislation, which will help bolster the Department of Defense’s waning cybersecurity workforce. Competition from the tech world has made recruiting and retaining top public sector cybersecurity professionals a challenge. I am proud to support the DOD Cybersecurity scholarship program at universities across the country, as they engage and educate students from various backgrounds and at different levels of education. Georgia universities are leading the effort to ensure a vibrant and highly-skilled government and public-sector cybersecurity workforce, and the DOD Cyber Scholarship Program Act of 2017 will help secure these efforts for years to come,” said Johnson.
03.09.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—The House passed H.R. 1301, the Department of Defense (DoD) Appropriations Act, in an overwhelmingly bipartisan fashion by a vote of 371-48. This legislation secures funding for the DoD for fiscal year 2017 and provides for key readiness programs including cyber defense and a 2.1 percent pay raise for the troops. “I am always proud to vote in favor of legislation that takes care of those who take care of us and ensure our nation’s safety and security. In addition to supporting counterterrorism efforts, fully funding a pay raise for our soldiers and providing our forces with essential training equipment and necessary upgrades, this appropriations bill ensures we maintain and bolster our technological edge. In the ever-changing cyber world we live in, a 21st Century Military is without question the most important component to field the threats of our time and beyond. I am proud to represent Fort Gordon in Augusta, Georgia, one of the fastest growing military installations in the country. Fort Gordon is home to the Cyber Center of Excellence, the United States Army Signal Corps and the future home of U.S. Army Cyber Command. The training and recruiting of the cyber workforce is happening right in my backyard—and as a member of Congress, providing for the common defense is my responsibility. We must prepare our forces on all fronts, including our cyber arsenal. I will always fight to ensure the mission of Fort Gordon is never compromised and our troops throughout the country have the resources they need and deserve.” Rep. Allen submitted the following testimony for House Appropriations Committee Defense Subcommittee Members’ Day: My district, the 12th Congressional District of Georgia, is home to Fort Gordon, one of the fastest growing military installations in the country, home to the U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence and the future home of the U.S. Army Cyber Command. I am proud to represent the thousands of service members from all branches who continue to make sacrifices to ensure the safety and security of the United States. Building a 21st Century Military is crucial to fielding the threats of today, tomorrow and years to come in the ever-changing cyber environment—and that starts with the investments being made at Fort Gordon. With the relocation of the U.S. Army Cyber Command to Georgia comes many opportunities and many challenges. Cyber is the new frontier. Each and every day, our nation faces a new type of threat in this domain. We must ensure that our cyber warriors have access to the ranges and training environments they need to adequately respond to emerging threats, as well as the readiness and training funding they need to address the full spectrum of cyber threats. As our military continues the crucial task of building its Cyber Mission Force, I stand ready to assist in ensuring Congress does its part to allow these forces to achieve Full Operating Capability on schedule. I want to thank the House Appropriations Committee for their hard work on the Department of Defense Appropriations Bill for FY17 and for fully funding defense agencies cyberspace activities. I look forward to working with them to provide the funds necessary to compensate our cyber warriors and their families for their sacrifices, as well as to allow the Army to continue recruiting the best and brightest into the ranks of its cyber force. President Trump has made clear that strengthening our military is his highest priority and he has called for a full repeal of the defense sequester— a goal that I share. FY18 provides Congress a great opportunity to bolster our national defense. I appreciate the opportunity to submit my input. ###
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— House Republicans on the Ways and Means Committee and Energy and Commerce Committee recently introduced the American Health Care Act. This legislation is part of the House Republican agenda to bring Obamacare relief to Americans. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement: “From the beginning, I have always said my goal is to restore patient-centered, cost-effective and market-driven solutions to our health care system. Standing by this goal, the introduction of the American Health Care Act is the next big and needed step in the repeal and replacement process. I look forward to reviewing this bill and working with my colleagues as they markup the first draft to produce a final product that will rescue Americans and American families from the binds of our failing health care system. Americans deserve better than Obamacare—plain and simple.” Click HERE to read the American Health Care Act text. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, the House passed H.R. 1004, the Regulatory Integrity Act by a vote of 246-176. This legislation increases transparency by requiring agencies to make information regarding regulatory actions publically available and prohibits agencies from lobbying or campaigning on behalf of a proposed rule. Background: Each year, as thousands of new regulations are issued, agencies are required to consider comments from the public during a period of notice and comment, with the intent to incorporate reasonable changes, but often that is not the case. Some agencies have worked to tilt the balance in their favor by actively campaigning for support for their proposal. One recent case of this occurring was the EPA’s Waters of the United States proposed rule (WOTUS). The rule would significantly broaden the definition to extend the federal government’s regulatory authority over nearly all bodies of water, including creeks, streams and groundwater as well as drainage ditches, irrigation pipes and farmland ponds. While developing the rule, the Administration failed to properly consult state and local governments in developing its rule, undermining the federal-state partnership Congress intended to establish under the CWA. Additionally, during the rulemaking process, the EPA engaged in a grassroots lobbying effort to gain public support for WOTUS, urging the public to support the effort to counter the volume of comments in opposition from farming groups and industries alike. H.R. 1004 prohibits agencies from using their power position to influence a proposed rule. “The rules and regulations process has gotten completely out of hand. These rules often reflect the interests of Washington insiders while ignoring input from hardworking American families outside the beltway. Look no further than the EPA’s WOTUS Rule, which would have undermined the rights of local landowners— in particular, America’s farmers. Instead of listening to folks across the country who labor day in and day out to contribute to our country’s agricultural economy, the EPA engaged in lobbying efforts to gain support for WOTUS by urging the general public to counter opposition from those in the agriculture industry. The rules and regulations process is not a popularity contest or competition. Federal agencies should be ensuring feedback from affected industry groups is heard and considered. I was proud to support the Regulatory Integrity Act and urge my colleagues in the Senate to take up this no-nonsense legislation immediately.” Congressman Allen has supported measures to prevent WOTUS from taking effect and recently introduced the Stop WOTUS Act, H.R. 1105, to fully repeal WOTUS, eliminating any potential for it to become a reality. On Tuesday, February 28, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order to review WOTUS. Rep. Rick Allen released a statement praising his decision. ###
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s Executive Order to restore the rule of law, federalism and economic growth by reviewing the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule: “I am glad to see President Trump taking action against the EPA’s harmful WOTUS rule. WOTUS was yet another attempt to undermine the rights of states, local governments and landowners—and would particularly hurt those who feed and fuel our nation, America’s farmers. Just a few weeks ago, I introduced legislation to repeal WOTUS and pave the way for solutions from the President. I look forward to continuing working with the Administration to empower those in the agriculture industry and ensure they can operate at full capacity without obstruction from Washington bureaucrats.” Background: In April 2014, the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers proposed a rule redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The rule would significantly broaden the definition to extend the federal government’s regulatory authority over nearly all bodies of water, including creeks, streams, and groundwater as well as drainage ditches, irrigation pipes and farmland ponds. The Administration failed to properly consult state and local governments in developing its rule, which undermines the federal-state partnership Congress intended to establish under the CWA. In 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay against the enforcement of WOTUS. It has remained there since. Congressman Allen has supported measures to prevent WOTUS from taking effect and recently introduced the Stop WOTUS Act, H.R. 1105, to fully repeal WOTUS, eliminating any potential for it to become a reality. On Tuesday, February 28, 2017, President Trump signed an executive order to review WOTUS. ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) issued the following response to President Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, Americans everywhere heard the President outline his vision for our country. Focused and forward thinking, his vision revives the American spirit— a spirit in all of us no matter our background or circumstances. In his short time in office, we have already seen promises kept and immediate action. Real people have real problems, and the President’s agenda is not a checklist of issues, but rather an acknowledgment and response to the nation’s outcry and demand for change. For the past 8 years, Americans have been left behind by policies created inside the beltway with little to no regard for the average Joe and Joanne. Not anymore. Our President is using his business sense to begin chipping away at the ice around our frozen economy, rescinding rules and regulations to provide job creators an economy to flourish in. He has made it his top priority to secure our country by rebuilding our military, supporting law enforcement, enforcing current laws and protecting our borders. While momentum is building, there is much work to be done. Tax reform and Obamacare repeal and replacement lie in front of us. Georgians and folks all across America deserve better than Obamacare and the President is determined to provide relief to Americans at all costs—working across the aisle and asking Democrats to join him. Our President is not afraid to step outside his comfort zone to keep his word to Americans. These are the reasons Americans sent Trump to Washington, and these are the reasons Georgians in the 12th district sent me to Congress; two businessmen bringing decades of experience in building a business to rebuild America. I am excited to work with President Trump, Vice President Pence and the new Administration to restore America to its full potential. It’s a new day in Washington.” ###
02.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) announced his 2017 Summer Internship Program in Washington D.C. Applications need to be submitted online at https://allen.house.gov/forms/internships/ and must be submitted by March 31st, 2017, with phone interviews to follow. Internships will be broken up into two sessions. The first session will begin on May 15th and end on June 23rd and the second session will begin on June 26th and end on August 4th. Preferences on sessions will be acknowledged during the interview process. All are welcome to apply! Our Summer Internship Program offers the opportunity for college students and young professionals to learn firsthand how our government and legislative process operates. Applicable candidates will cover a range of responsibilities vital to the success of a Congressional office such as constituent input, legislative writing, policy briefings/hearings, and more. Although unpaid, these internships offer a once in a lifetime opportunity and the possibility of earning college credit. Carlton Norwood, the Intern Coordinator for Congressman Allen, is available to assist with any questions or concerns from interested candidates. Carlton can be reached by phone at (202)-225-2823 or by email at Carlton.Norwood@mail.house.gov. For those interested in District office internships, please contact Brinsley Thigpen at (706)-228-1980 or Brinsley.Thigpen@mail.house.gov. Congressman Allen stated, “Interning in a congressional office offers a unique opportunity to gain insight into the legislative process and how a congressional office operates. Interns play an integral part in carrying out the functions of our day-to-day operations. We practice a bottom-up approach to empower others to be the best that they can be and gain experience that will help them in the future. My staff and I look forward to welcoming students to Washington D.C. and to Team Allen.” ###
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) introduced H.R. 1105, legislation to repeal the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) Rule. The rule was issued under the Clean Water Act (CWA) by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps) and was designed to define the scope of waters protected and regulated by the EPA. “Truthfully, WOTUS is the antithesis of limited government. This rule grants the federal government regulatory power over virtually any place where water flows in the United States—ditches, ponds, man-made constructions—you name it. Not only would it expand the federal government’s authority and undermine the rights of states, local governments and landowners, but it would create more red tape, preventing economic growth and jobs particularly in the agriculture industry. The last thing Americans, especially farmers, need is the government attempting to regulate backyard streams and puddles on their land. WOTUS was flawed from the beginning, which is why it has been tied up in the courts since 2015. My bill is the first step to ensuring this rule never sees the light of day. In our quest to reduce the scope and size of the federal government, dismantling WOTUS is crucial. I look forward to working with President Trump, the new Administration and my colleagues on this very important issue.” Rep. Allen gave the following speech on the House floor this afternoon on his legislation: Click HERE to watch Rep. Rick Allen's speech. WOTUS Background: In April 2014, the EPA and the Corps proposed a rule redefining “waters of the United States” under the CWA. The rule would significantly broaden the definition to extend the federal government’s regulatory authority over nearly all bodies of water, including creeks, streams, and groundwater as well as drainage ditches, irrigation pipes and farmland ponds. The Administration failed to properly consult state and local governments in developing its rule, which undermines the federal-state partnership Congress intended to establish under the CWA. In 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit issued a nationwide stay against the enforcement of WOTUS. It has remained there since. Congressman Allen has supported measures to prevent WOTUS from taking effect and his legislation seeks to fully repeal WOTUS, eliminating any potential for it to become a reality. ###
02.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— Early this morning the Senate voted to confirm Dr. Tom Price, Republican Congressman representing the Sixth District of Georgia, to be the next Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services by a vote of 52-47. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in support: “I am very proud of my friend and colleague, Dr. Tom Price, who is now officially the next HHS Secretary. From his time serving Georgians in the State Senate and House of Representatives to his medical practice days as a surgeon and later Medical Director of the Orthopedic Clinic at Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, who better to lead the charge in bringing Obamacare relief to Americans than Dr. Price? Now that his confirmation is final, we need to get the ball rolling to deliver a repeal and replacement of Obamacare—I have the utmost faith in my colleague and know he has the experience needed to get the job done.” ###
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) issued the following statement in response to the President’s executive order entitled “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States:" “First and foremost we must protect our homeland— the executive order does that— and keeps Americans safe until the legislative branch can reform our visa process and the vetting of refugees. Last Congress the House passed a very similar piece of legislation, the American SAFE Act, which passed with bipartisan support and a veto-proof majority. I am hopeful that cases affecting travelers when the executive order was announced will be resolved soon.” ###
01.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Michael McCaul (TX-10), Phil Roe MD (TN-1), Rick Allen (GA-12), Dave Brat (VA-07), and Louie Gohmert (TX-01) introduce the One In, One Out Act to cut the red tape in order to get government out of the way where it is most harmful and let business owners do what they do best – hire, compete, innovate, and flourish. Specifically, this bill would require at least one deregulatory measure be found with greater or equal cost before a federal agency can impose a new costly regulation on small businesses. Originally introduced in Britain in January 2011 as the One in, One-out rule, and increased to One-in, Two-out in January 2013, this policy reduced annual regulatory costs by almost $2.7 billion. It wasn’t only successful at lowering costs, but also at making the UK a more desirable place to start a business. Chairman McCaul: “We must put our money where our mouth is and finally recreate an environment where our small business owners are not simply keeping their head above water, but thriving. The One In, One Out Act is the starting point to establish a system of regulating that prioritizes individuals and small businesses, and places innovation and competitiveness at the forefront of the decision making process. Cutting this red tape is essential to making America great again.” Congressman Roe: “If the United States’ regulatory system were a country, it would have the world’s 9th largest economy. Out-of-control regulating has undoubtedly slowed economic recovery, which is why I am proud to support the One In, One Out Act, commonsense legislation to begin the process of regulating smarter by capping the number of federal regulations. I thank Congressman McCaul for his leadership on this important issue, and I look forward to working alongside him and with President Trump to cut red tape and foster private-sector job growth.” Congressman Allen: “Rules and regulations have overburdened Americans for the last eight years. Now is the time to scale them back. The One In, One Out Act is good government and common sense at its core. Not only does this legislation require federal agencies to repeal or revise rules before they can issue a new one, it goes one step further by requiring that any new rules be of equal or lesser cost to Americans. To begin growing our economy and creating jobs, we must reduce the size and scope of the federal government and tackle the mountain of red tape surrounding our nation’s job creators. For too long, Americans have had to comply with time-consuming rules and regulations. They are ready for growth and innovation – this legislation is the first step.” Congressman Gohmert: “Government regulations can be a burdensome hindrance to America’s economic growth. The One In, One Out Act is a necessary and common-sense piece of legislation that I am proud to co-sponsor. This bill will not only cut down on the red tape regulations issued by bloated government agencies – it will limit them as well. Businesses can truly thrive when the amount of unnecessary and burdensome regulations are kept at bay.” Congressman Brat: “The One In, One Out Act is a vital piece of legislation in our burdensome regulatory environment because it puts a cap on the total number of federal regulations. I hear every day from constituents who are drowning in red tape and unable to operate their businesses or provide for their families due to the actions of unaccountable government bureaucrats in DC. For too long, government agencies have issued new regulations without cutting old ones, resulting in a maze of regulations that strangles businesses and economic growth.”
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) reintroduced the Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act, H.R. 640. This legislation protects American taxpayers from the failures of Obamacare by holding states that set up state exchanges accountable and provides clear steps to recover federal funds when the exchanges fail. When the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, was signed into law, the President freely gave money away to states to establish state exchanges. However, the Administration provided no solution for recovering these funds when the state exchanges failed. Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent since. Exchanges in multiple states have failed, with other states on the verge of failure. “Obamacare has been disastrous. From rising premiums to dwindling coverage and providers, it is clear this law and its makers were careless in its writing and implementation. The shortcomings of Obamacare should not be placed on the backs of American taxpayers. My legislation ensures the American people are not left with the further burden of repaying the debt when state exchanges fail.” H.R. 640 fixes the aforementioned problem by providing a plan to recover federal funds when state exchanges fail by: Ensuring states have kept records and properly reported how federal funds were spent by requiring states to submit records of expenses to Congress as well as the Department of Health and Human Services. Requiring all unused funds to be returned back to the Treasury Department for deficit reduction and any real property purchased returned to the General Services Administration. Rep. Allen previously introduced this legislation in the 114th Congress. ###
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, U.S. Representative Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) reintroduced the Better Agriculture Resources Now (BARN) Act, H.R. 641. This legislation works to reform and strengthen the H-2A visa program, a program which allows agriculture employers to hire non-immigrant workers for temporary labor. However, this process has been frequently caught up in red tape, stalling, or in some cases, preventing employers from applying for and hiring H-2A workers. The BARN Act increases the efficiency of the H-2A visa program to help farmers in Georgia and across America. “Many farmers in Georgia and across the country rely on the H-2A visa program for not only their livelihood but to ensure food security in America. Currently, the H-2A program is under the jurisdiction of the Department of Labor, which has resulted in needless delay and neglect of the program. The DOL does not understand the urgency in which crops must be planted or harvested—or the consequences that could result from a lack of timeliness. This is exactly why I introduced the BARN Act again this Congress. My legislation transfers responsibility of H-2A certification to the Department of Agriculture—which is better suited to meet the needs of farmers and their time-sensitive operations. Additionally, the BARN Act works to streamline the H-2A process and reforms specific parts of the program that have failed farmers to better serve the agriculture industry as a whole. President Trump has indicated that he wants to make immigration reform a cornerstone of his presidency, and I am hopeful that together we can lead the charge to make these much-needed changes to support our farmers.” BARN Act: Transfers responsibility for certification of H-2A need from DOL to USDA to improve efficiency in the processing of requests. Keeps jurisdiction over all immigration status issues at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). Lowers the maximum filing deadline for employers to request H-2A labor from 45 days to 30 days in order to accelerate the certification process. Eliminates the 50% Rule, providing farmers greater certainty by allowing them to retain H-2A workers who have been employed on their operations for less than 50% of the duration of their visas. Requires that wages of H-2A workers not exceed 115% of the minimum wage rate at the federal or state level (whichever is higher). Requires non-immigrant workers to return to their home country after their H-2A status has expired or face penalties from DHS unless USDA grants the worker an extension. Sets clear housing requirements for H-2A workers. Responsibly changes necessary grounds for claims filed by Legal Services Corporation to reduce burdens on H-2A employers caused by frivolous lawsuits. Includes strong reforms to combat H-2A overstays and fraud. Prevents non-immigrant workers with previous criminal offenses from participating in the H-2A program while holding employers responsible for adhering to H-2A hiring requirements as well. The BARN Act is also supported by the Georgia Farm Bureau. "If BARN were to pass it would significantly improve the H2A program,” said Gerald Long, Georgia Farm Bureau President. “We believe better H-2A rules would allow more farmers to utilize the program. BARN is clearly a step in the right direction.” Rep. Allen is a member of the House Committee on Agriculture and previously introduced this legislation in the 114th Congress. ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement on the 58th Presidential Inauguration: “Today we witnessed history. After eight long years, we have finally closed the chapter on policies and agendas that do not represent the needs or interests of the American people. I am truly excited to hit the ground running under the leadership of President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence to create an America that Americans feel confident in again. Americans have given us the greatest gift and responsibility and I do not take that lightly. I vow to work tirelessly and rigorously with my colleagues in both houses and the new administration to represent the voice and agenda of the American people.” ###
01.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House members of the Georgia Congressional Delegation today applauded President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nomination of former Georgia Governor George Ervin “Sonny” Perdue III to serve as Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The following delegation members issued statements on President-elect Trump’s choice of Sonny Perdue for Secretary of Agriculture: U.S. Rep. Buddy Carter (GA-01): “Former Governor Sonny Perdue is the perfect choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. As the top industry in our state, Georgians know how important agriculture is. As a two-term Governor of Georgia, Sonny has already proven himself to be a strong leader who will fight to ensure the agriculture industry is able to accomplish their important work. The hard work of our farmers, ranchers, and producers is critical to the production of the safest, most abundant and most affordable food supply in the world and I look forward to working with former Governor Perdue to ensure Washington doesn’t stand in their way.” U.S. Rep. Drew Ferguson (GA-03): “Sonny is an excellent choice to be the next Secretary of Agriculture. His experience as a veterinarian combined with his executive experience as a two-term governor make him uniquely qualified to lead the USDA. I have personally had the honor of working alongside Governor Perdue to create thousands of new jobs in Georgia. Sonny has always been committed to making sure businesses, and especially agriculture in Georgia, are successful. I look forward to working with him as the Secretary of Agriculture.” U.S. Rep. Rob Woodall (GA-07): “Georgians are well aware of Governor Perdue’s heart for service, and I have no doubt he will bring that same spirit and commitment to this new role. Having served as Governor of Georgia, whose number one industry is agriculture, his knowledge and experience in both the public and private sectors make him an excellent choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. It makes me very proud to see the role Georgia will be playing in moving America forward, and I look forward to partnering with him.” U.S. Rep. Austin Scott (GA-08), Member of the House Committee on Agriculture and Chairman of the Agriculture Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit: “America’s will have a great Secretary of Agriculture in Sonny Perdue, and I am confident Sonny will be an excellent representative of our state in his service to our country’s agriculture communities. Agriculture is Georgia’s leading industry, so we’re glad to have someone who understands our state’s agricultural needs and act as a champion for the needs of our farmers, ranchers, and manufacturers in the U.S. Department of Agriculture.” U.S. Rep. Doug Collins (GA-09): “Sonny Perdue is an outstanding choice for Secretary of Agriculture. The experience he brings to that role will a boon to agricultural communities from coast to coast, including the poultry industry, which is a key part of Georgia’s livelihood.” U.S. Rep. Jody Hice (GA-10): “Given his executive experience as a two-term Governor and his background as an agribusiness owner, Sonny Perdue is an outstanding choice to lead the Department of Agriculture. During his tenure as Governor, he shaped an agricultural policy that helped usher in a new era of economic growth. Agriculture remains the top industry in Georgia, and I look forward to working with Sonny as Secretary of Agriculture to continue supporting our farming communities.” U.S. Rep. Barry Loudermilk (GA-11): “It’s great to see my friend, former Governor Sonny Perdue, selected to serve as our next Agriculture Secretary. His proven conservative leadership on Georgia’s agricultural interests teamed with his business background makes him an excellent choice to lead this department.” U.S. Rep. Rick Allen (GA-12), Member of the House Committee on Agriculture: “From the farm he grew up on in Perry, Georgia to his service in the U.S. Air Force, veterinary and agribusiness career, and later Governor of Georgia, Sonny Perdue makes an excellent and obvious choice for the next Secretary of Agriculture. Hailing from a state like Georgia, where agriculture is our number one industry, I am confident in Sonny’s ability to represent the interests of all American agriculture. As a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I look forward to his leadership and working with him to advance the needs of our farmers and the industry as a whole.” U.S. Rep. Tom Graves (GA-14): “Governor Perdue is the perfect choice to lead the Agriculture Department. Between his work as a veterinarian and agribusiness owner to his eight years as governor, he’s walked the fields of Georgia to the halls of the executive office. He has the right combination of experience, and I have no doubt that Sonny will serve the American people well.” ###
01.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) announced his two committee assignments for the 115th Congress. Rep. Allen will continue to serve on the House Education and Workforce Committee and the House Agriculture Committee. In making this announcement, Rep. Allen released the following statement: “I am grateful and excited to continue my membership on the Agriculture Committee and Education and Workforce Committee. As a Georgian and the son of two educators, these two committees are near and dear to my heart. Agriculture is our state’s number one industry, and as a member of the House Agriculture Committee, I have a front row seat to follow and influence our country’s agriculture policies. I am proud to represent the diverse agricultural priorities of the 12th Congressional District and the entire state of Georgia. I also look forward to working with my colleagues and folks back home as we begin considering the next Farm Bill. Last year on the House Education and Workforce Committee, I had the opportunity to help pass the largest education reform bill in decades, returning control back to the local level with the Every Student Succeeds Act. I look forward to working with the committee on its implementation and further empowering our students and educators.” ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House passed S. Con. Res 3, Fiscal Year 2017 Budget Resolution. This resolution provides reconciliation instructions to initiate and facilitate the repeal process of the Affordable Care Act. “Obamacare has continuously wreaked havoc on Americans—they are ready for relief. This resolution, which instructs committees to begin drafting legislation to repeal major portions of Obamacare, is the first step in providing relief and initiating the repeal and replacement process. My colleagues in the House and Senate will deliver on our promises. The road to replacement will be a process, but every battle worth fighting must start with step one—and today we took that step.” ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Johnny Isakson, R-Ga., and David Perdue, R-Ga., along with U.S. Representatives Rick Allen, R-Ga.-12, and Tom Graves, R-Ga.-14, today applauded the announcement by Governor Nathan Deal, R-Ga., to dedicate millions into a new facility in Augusta, Ga., that will serve as an additional tool in our defense arsenal and enable Georgia to continue to lead in cybersecurity and economic development. During today’s State of the State address, Deal outlined plans to begin construction on the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, a state-owned facility designed to promote modernization in cybersecurity technology for both private and public industries. The new facility will operate in conjunction with the Department of Defense and the National Security Agency (NSA), along with a number of universities and technical colleges and private entities in Georgia. “Thanks in large part to the efforts of Governor Deal and our entire Congressional delegation, Georgia has emerged as a national leader in cybersecurity,” said Senator Isakson, chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. “Governor Deal’s action will cement Georgia’s role as a leader on issues of cybersecurity by prioritizing the construction of a new, state-of-the-art facility in conjunction with the defense department and NSA, as well as with private institutions and the state’s universities and technical colleges. The Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center will be an invaluable resource to our defense community as well as a boon to our economy.” "Georgia is on the front lines of training the next generation of cyber warriors,” said Senator Perdue, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Building on the innovative efforts we've seen at the United States Army Cyber Command at Fort Gordon, this new specialized training facility in Augusta will help boost our state's cyber workforce. In the face of ever-evolving attacks, our nation must strengthen its defense capabilities to combat the constant asymmetric threats we face on a daily basis. When it comes to cyber security, I'm encouraged to see Georgia leading the way, and I appreciate all the hard work the Governor and legislature are doing to make this happen.” “Cyber is the new frontier,” said Rep. Allen, who represents Augusta in the U.S. House. “A 21st Century Military is essential to field the threats of today, tomorrow and beyond. With the U.S. Army Cyber Command’s transition to Ft. Gordon, numerous tech companies and jobs investing in our area, the creation of local cyber institutes and now the establishment of the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, the CSRA and Georgia at large have the potential to become the security, technology and innovation hub of the Southeast. Because of the work that will be done here, we will be leading the charge for growing the cyber workforce and leading our nation. I applaud Governor Deal for his efforts to strengthen our national security and thank him for this incredible investment in our community.” “The Cyber Innovation and Training Center will strengthen Georgia’s status as a national leader in cybersecurity,” said Rep. Graves, a member of the House Appropriations Committee’s Defense Subcommittee. “This new center will also have far reaching impacts on our state’s economy, including spurring growth in the financial technology industry, complimenting Amy Cyber Command at Fort Gordon, helping our businesses secure customer data, supporting our state’s tech incubators and facilitating economic growth. I commend the Governor for his leadership on this important issue and the entire congressional delegation for working together to ensure our federal cyber assets have a home in Georgia and the resources needed to succeed.” As home to Fort Gordon’s U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence, as well as to the National Security Agency’s headquarters and the U.S. Army’s new cyber command headquarters, the Augusta, Ga., community is uniquely positioned to accommodate the new, state-owned Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center. Governor Deal has announced a $50 million investment in the new Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center, which will be licensed under the Georgia Technology Authority and located on a state-owned property in Augusta, Ga., in partnership with state, federal, and the private sector to create a secure environment for cybersecurity education programs, training, and testing. The Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center will be a state-owned cyber range and facility bringing academia, private industry and government together to establish cybersecurity standards across state and local agencies with the capability to develop and practice protocols. The center will also be a place to advance the field of information security with leading-edge vulnerability research to ensure reliable and effective practices. The partners for the new facility include the Georgia National Guard, the Department of Defense, the Georgia Technology Authority, Technical College and University Systems, the Georgia Department of Economic Development, the Georgia Bureau of Investigations and numerous other private sector entities. According to Governor Deal’s office, the goals and strategies of the Georgia Cyber Innovation and Training Center will be: Education and Training: Improve Georgia’s cybersecurity education, training and research infrastructure to enhance public and private sectors in cybersecurity preparedness, while building a world-class workforce. Research and Development: Enhance research and development opportunities through leading edge technology, while providing small businesses with the tools to grow and compete by allowing access to technology and education resources through the Center. Cybersecurity and Protection: Increase protection and security of public resources, infrastructure and provide efficient and effective response to cyber related emergencies. Economic Development: Heighten Georgia globally as the best place for business through innovation and collaboration with private industry in cybersecurity. Government and Public Infrastructure: Deliver safe, secure and efficient government services through inter-agency cybersecurity collaboration; and to build a world-class and cyber secure public infrastructure and utility grid to enhance the quality of Georgia’s citizens. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House voted to pass H. Res. 11, to reject the Anti-Israel UN Resolution. This bipartisan legislation states Congress’ opposition to the United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 and calls for its repeal. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12), a co-sponsor of this legislation, issued the following statement in support: “Since 1972, the United States has vetoed 42 anti-Israel resolutions—but that all changed in 2016. In the final days of his Presidency, Obama left our only ally in the Middle East to stand alone by blatantly and deliberately violating longstanding U.S. policy. The Administration’s failure to veto an anti-Israel UN Resolution is a betrayal of the worst kind, and anti-Israel policies will not be tolerated. Our two countries are partners in this world and allies in democracy. I will always stand with Israel.” Background: The United States has long recognized that a solution to the Israel-Palestinian conflict can only come through direct, bilateral negotiations between the two parties, thus, it has been longstanding U.S. policy to veto one-sided or anti-Israel resolutions at the United Nations Security Council. In December of 2016, the Obama Administration broke with this precedent and failed to veto UN Security Council Resolution 2334. This resolution states that the Jewish Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem and the Western Wall, Judaism’s holiest site, are “occupied territory.” Additionally, it lends legitimacy to efforts by the Palestinian Authority to impose a solution through international organizations like the UN, undermining prospects for peace between the two countries and essentially forcing Israel to give up its best bargaining chip in negotiations with Palestine. Read full bill text HERE. ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House passed H.R. 26, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. The REINS Act curbs major regulations from executive agencies and restores congressional accountability to the regulatory process. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga-12) released the following statement in support: “Under the Obama Administration, federal agencies have become the fourth branch of government. These unelected bureaucrats have been doling out new rules and regulations like candy, creating a mountain of red tape, stifling growth, weighing down our economy and holding back job creation and opportunity. The REINS Act brings much-needed common sense and accountability back to the regulatory process. As a former small business owner for over 40 years, I know firsthand how federal overregulation burdens our nation’s job creators across America and back home in Georgia-12, which is why I was proud to vote in favor of this legislation and continue fighting against costly and ill-advised regulations from Washington.” REINS Act: Since 2009, the estimated cumulative costs of regulations have reached almost $2 trillion. The REINS Act would limit unnecessary major regulations from executive agencies by requiring new rules with an impact of $100 million or more to be submitted to Congress for approval. Congress must take action on proposed regulations within 70 legislative days with an up-or-down vote in both the House and the Senate. Congressman Allen was a cosponsor of the REINS Act in the 114th Congress. ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC— Today, the House gaveled in to officially mark the start of the first session of the 115th Congress. Members of the House, including Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12), took the oath of office, voted to re-elect Speaker Paul Ryan as the Speaker of the House, and approved the House rules for the 115th Congress. Rep. Allen released the following statement on beginning his second term as the representative for Georgia’s 12th Congressional District: “First, I want to say how honored I am to have another opportunity to represent the people of Georgia-12. I am excited to hit the ground running and work with President-elect Trump, Vice President-elect Pence and the new Administration to create an America that Americans feel confident in again. We have a lot of work on our plates, and with the House’s “A Better Way” agenda, we have a guideline to tackle healthcare reform, poverty, tax reform, national security, jobs and the economy and restoring the Constitution. I am hopeful that 2017 will be a year to reroute our country and unite our citizens.”
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Today, the House passed the Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017, commonly known as the “CR.” This legislation extends government funding until April 28, 2017 and maintains current budget cap levels put into place under the Budget Control Act of 2011. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in support: “While this legislation is far from perfect, a short-term CR ensures the government operates without a shutdown until April and funds immediate critical national security measures, like the fight against radical Islamic terror. This strategy will allow time for the next Congress and a new administration, under President-Elect Trump, to negotiate spending levels and move our country forward. I am hopeful that next year, we can return to regular order and continue to pass spending bills that protect conservative priorities.” Further Continuing and Security Assistance Appropriations Act, 2017: Provides funding for our troops and overseas contingency to support military and diplomatic efforts to fight ISIS and terror around the globe Responds to refugee and migration crises, including in Africa, Europe and Eurasia, the Middle East, and South and Central Asia, while prohibiting certain funds from being made available for the resettlement of refugees in the United States until the new Administration takes control Contains natural disaster relief, including Hurricane Matthew, and addresses contaminated drinking water in cities across America Supports 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 with funding to prioritize healthcare research, drug approval and drug abuse efforts Establishes an expedited process in the Senate for General Mattis to be appointed as Secretary of Defense Prevents a pay increase for Members of Congress ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement on S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act: “This legislation fails to address the needs and concerns of my district back home in Georgia-12, specifically relating to the New Savannah Bluff Lock and Dam. Myself, along with stakeholders in the community, worry that the bill language is not a long-term solution to the future of this project. For this reason, I voted against S. 612 and will continue to work hand-in-hand with the community to produce a plan that all parties involved feel confident in.”
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) voted in favor of the Conference Report to accompany S. 2943, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. The NDAA is the annual legislation which authorizes vital defense spending and sets priorities for America’s military. S. 2943 passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 375-34. Rep. Allen issued the following statement in support: “The NDAA is a vital piece of legislation and how Congress fulfills its most important responsibility—to provide for the common defense. Not only does this legislation ensure the readiness and preparedness of our nation’s military, it also secures the largest pay raise for our troops in six years and strengthens military healthcare. For Georgia-12, this legislation brings needed funding back home to Fort Gordon as it expands with the Cyber Command relocating to the CSRA. Specifically, the NDAA authorizes over $100 million in military construction for Fort Gordon to ensure finalization of the U.S. Army Cyber Command Complex. As a Member of Congress, this legislation is one of the most monumental bills we pass and I am proud each year to cast my vote in favor of it.” S. 2943, the National Defense Authorization Act: Authorizes funding for operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and Europe Prevents the drawdown of the military and bolsters readiness Provides the full 2.1% pay raise for our troops Extends critical authorities for our forces overseas and in harm’s way, especially those fighting terrorism across the globe Strengthens military healthcare Reforms organization of the Department of Defense Restores the National Security Council to its original purpose Maintains prohibition on the closure of Gitmo and the transfer of detainees to the U.S. ####
11.30.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House passed The 21st Century Cures Act. This bipartisan and bicameral legislation modernizes our healthcare infrastructure, bringing it into the 21st century by accelerating the cycle of discovering, developing and delivering new cures and treatments. The Cures Act ensures America continues to remain at the forefront of biomedical innovation. This legislation passed the House by a vote of 392-26. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in support: “Today Congress made history for the millions of Americans living with and fighting diseases. By passing the Cures Act, we can finally bring our healthcare innovation and infrastructure into the 21st Century—where it belongs. By removing the bureaucratic barriers and red tape surrounding the regulatory process, we can bridge the gap between the science of cures and the way we regulate these therapies. We must keep America at the forefront of medical innovation and bring hope to patients and their loved ones across America by delivering lifesaving and life improving therapies— the 21st Century Cures Act does just that.” The 21st Century Cures Act: Accelerates the discovery, development and delivery of new treatments and cures for patients by: Streamlining and improving the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) review of life-saving drugs Modernizing clinical trials and removing regulatory uncertainty for development of new medical applications Supporting and investing in the next generation of scientists Provides $4.8 billion over the next 10 years to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) for critical medicine research programs and initiatives Provides $500 million to the FDA over the next 10 years to accelerate the delivery of medical devices and drugs to patients more quickly Provides $1 billion over the next two years for grants to states to combat opioid abuse and supplement prevention and treatment Includes two other important provisions: Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Reforms Act which assists individuals and their families in mental health crisis and addresses the needs of Americans with a substance abuse order Increasing Choice, Access and Quality in Health Care for Americans Act which includes several bipartisan bills in the House Ways and Means Committee and Energy and Commerce Committee that moved through regular order in the House and Senate ####
10.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) is hosting a “Bring Small Businesses Back” Town Hall in conjunction with the Job Creators Network (JCN) on Tuesday, November 1, 2016 from 8:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. at the Ronald McDonald House in Augusta. This event features Rep. Allen, JCN President and CEO Alfredo Ortiz and focuses on the threats that small business owners face. “As a former small business owner for over 40 years, I know the impact American small businesses have on our local economies,” said Rep. Allen. “They really are the backbone of our local communities. To fully thrive, our small businesses need an environment with less federal overreach and less regulation to allow for growth and employment opportunities. While serving on the House Education and Workforce Committee, I will continue to fight regulations that stand in the way of expansion and job creation and instead champion small businesses. I look forward to joining the JCN and members of the community to discuss ways we can strengthen the business community.” “Rep. Allen is committed to removing the regulatory obstacles that small businesses face,” said Alfredo Ortiz, president and CEO of the Job Creators Network. “With the support of leaders like him, we can restore the economy by bringing small businesses back.” WHAT: Bring Small Businesses Back Town Hall WHEN: Tuesday, November 1, 2016 8:00 a.m. – 9:30 a.m. WHERE: Ronald McDonald House 1442 Harper Street Augusta, GA 30901 The Job Creators Network is a nonpartisan organization whose mission is to involve and inform employees on how government laws impact their jobs. Informing citizens and empowering them to think for themselves and to make their own decisions is critical. JCN is traveling the country highlighting the challenges small businesses face and focusing on solutions to overcome them. Please RSVP to heath.wheat@mail.house.gov ####
10.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– FEMA’s Major Disaster Declaration for the State of Georgia, issued after Hurricane Matthew, has been updated to now include nine counties in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District: Bulloch, Effingham, Screven, Evans, Candler, Emanuel, Jenkins, Tattnall and Toombs County. Under this declaration, the aforementioned counties will receive assistance for debris removal, emergency protective measures and public assistance, and Bulloch, Effingham and Evans counties will receive individual assistance. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in support: “Last week, I surveyed Hurricane Matthew damage in Georgia-12. It was devastating to see some folks lose not only their lives, but their livelihoods in this storm. The loss, debris and damage I saw require immediate attention and assistance. I am glad to see FEMA including these counties to their Disaster Declaration so the people in our district can begin to rebuild their homes, businesses, communities and lives after this natural disaster.” FEMA’s Federal Disaster Declaration and Assistance Programs Bulloch, Effingham, Screven, Evans, Candler, Emanuel, Jenkins, Tattnall and Toombs Counties are designated to receive: Public Assistance for emergency work and repair or replacement of disaster of disaster damaged facilities Hazard Mitigation Assistance for actions taken to prevent or reduce long term risk to life and property from natural hazards. Individuals seeking Individual Assistance in Bulloch, Effingham and Evans Counties can register with FEMA the following ways: Apply online at www.DisasterAssistance.gov. Constituents may call the registration phone number at 1-800-621-3362; those who have a speech disability or hearing loss and use TTY, should call 1-800-462-7585 directly; for those who use 711 or Video Relay Service (VRS), call 1-800-621-3362. ###
10.12.2016	AUGUSTA, GA – Today, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) traveled around Georgia’s 12th Congressional District, specifically in Bulloch, Effingham and Screven Counties, surveying damage done by Hurricane Matthew. Georgia Commissioner of Agriculture Gary Black and Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long were able to join Rep. Allen in Screven County, and they were able to listen and speak with community members who have been affected by the storm as well as those who have worked tirelessly to make sure people are safe. Rep. Allen released the following statement after his visits: “First, I want to say thank you to the people on the ground—our local and state officials for their hard work assisting those who were affected by the storm. I also commend our state representatives, state senators and Governor Deal for the great job they did in keeping in touch with the emergency management in Atlanta and continuously keeping Georgians alert and aware of conditions. It is truly heartbreaking that some have lost their livelihoods and even their lives in this natural disaster. At this time, Hurricane Matthew claimed the lives of over 25 Americans, sadly including two in Bulloch County. We have people still without power, like Reggie, who I met today in Effingham County. Local pecan farmers today asked me, “How do you harvest with trees down all around the pecan trees?” People are hurting. On a federal level, I have been in constant contact with FEMA and the Red Cross to make sure our counties are taken care of. I will do all in my power to ensure those who are in need receive the timely assistance they deserve. To those in Georgia-12, my office is here to help. If you are in need of assistance with FEMA or another federal agency, have questions, or are just unsure of where to even start—please call any of my offices. Robin and I are continuing to pray for those lost and hurt by Hurricane Matthew. I am grateful for all in the community that opened up their hearts, homes, businesses, churches and resources to help those affected by this storm.” ### Rep. Allen’s Office Contact Information: AUGUSTA OFFICE DUBLIN OFFICE STATESBORO OFFICE VIDALIA OFFICE 2743 Perimeter Parkway Bldg. 200, Suite 225 Augusta, GA 30909 Phone: (706) 228-1980 Fax: (706) 228-1954 101 N. Jefferson St. Dublin, GA 31021 Phone: (478) 272-4030 Fax: (478) 277-0113 50 E. Main Street Statesboro, GA 30458 Phone: (912) 243-9452 Fax: (912) 243-9453 107 Old Airport Road, Suite A Vidalia, GA 30475 Phone: (912) 403-3311 Fax: (912) 403-3317 FEMA: 800-621-3362 or https://www.fema.gov/.
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON, DC-- U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement after the House passed a comprehensive legislative measure to provide needed resources for our veterans and military construction projects and fund the government through December 9, 2016. “Without question, this bill brings much needed resources to VA facilities around the country—including the two in Georgia-12, the Charlie Norwood VA Medical Center and Carl Vinson VA Medical Center. Additionally this legislation funds Military Construction for Fiscal Year 2017. With two Army installations in Georgia’s 12th District, including one of the fastest growing bases in the country, Fort Gordon, construction funds are direly needed so our troops can accomplish their mission. I will gladly support legislation that cares for our veterans and funds vital construction for our troops.” ###
09.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12), voted in favor of H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act. This bill was the House’s legislative response to the Administration’s cash ransom payment to Iran last year. The bipartisan measure passed the House late last night by a vote of 254- 163. “For years and years, the United States government has held a long-standing policy of not paying ransom for prisoners—but our legacy has quickly been diminished by the President. On the same day his reckless Iran Deal was implemented, we now know that a $400 million cash ransom was given to Iran in a prisoner exchange releasing several American hostages. The Administration continuously denies that a ransom was paid, but acknowledges the cash was used as ‘leverage.’ The American people are smarter than that. Either way the media or the Administration try and spin it, a ransom was paid. The President continues to invest our trust and money into Iran— a country that is the world’s leading state sponsor of terrorism. This shady transaction sets a dangerous precedent and is a threat to our national security. That is why I was proud to vote for legislation to ensure this never happens again. I will not stand for this type of deceit by our Commander-in-Chief that endangers American citizens here and abroad, and urge my colleagues in the Senate to act swiftly and pass this legislation.” Background: On the same day that the President's Iran Deal was implemented, he also announced that the U.S. had agreed to a prisoner exchange. In this swap, the U.S. would pay Iran $1.7 billion and Iran would release several innocent American hostages in exchange for the U.S. to grant clemency and release seven Iranians who were serving sentences or awaiting trial for serious crimes (like aiding Iran’s illegal weapons program). We have since learned that there was a $400 million cash payment to Iran that was used as ‘leverage’ to ensure that the prisoners were released. H.R. 5931: Makes clear that the Obama Administration violated longstanding U.S. policy by releasing prisoners and paying ransom for the return of Americans hostages held by Iran Prohibits all cash payments to Iran Demands transparency on future settlements with Iran to ensure they are not used to pay ransom Rep. Rick Allen recently spoke in strong support of this legislation on the House Floor. Click HERE to watch his speech. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced the opportunity for young Georgians in the 12th Congressional District to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to high school students, grades 9-12, who live or attend school in the 12th District. The winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year, alongside other winning entries from across the country, and will also be invited to attend a special ceremony in Washington, D.C. The first, second, and third runner up winner’s artwork will be showcased in Congressman Allen’s Washington, D.C. and district offices from May 2017 – May 2018. In addition, there will be a “People’s Choice Award” winner, which constituents will choose by visiting Congressman Allen’s Facebook page and voting on submitted entries. Congressman Allen will announce all winners at an awards ceremony at the Georgia Carolina State Fair on October 20, 2016. “The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity to highlight the creativity and artistic talents of high school students in Georgia and across the country,” said Congressman Allen. “I look forward to seeing submissions from our young artists and the special ways they have chosen to highlight the 12th District of Georgia. I encourage all interested high school students to take part in this special tradition.” Artwork submitted must represent images that depict a scene such as a landscape, industry, etc. from the 12th District of Georgia, must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate U.S. copyright laws. For more specific guidelines for competition entries, please visit Congressman Allen’s website HERE. Students may submit one piece of artwork for entry in the competition from October 3rd-5th at one of the following drop-off locations. Entries should have the student’s release form attached to the back of his or her artwork when submitted. Congressman Allen’s District Office in Augusta: 2743 Perimeter Parkway, Bldg. 200, Suite 225, Augusta, GA, 30909 (9am-5pm) Dublin High School: 1127 Hillcrest Parkway, Dublin GA 31021 Appling County High School: 482 Blackshear Highway, Baxley, GA 31513 Vidalia Heritage Academy Upper School: 207 East Second Street, Vidalia, Georgia 30474 Statesboro High School: 10 Lester Rd, Statesboro, GA 30458 (front office from 8am-3pm) Emanuel County Institute: 102 S. College St, Twin City, GA 30471 Please note: Artwork must adhere to the policy of the House Office Building Commission. In accordance with this policy, exhibits depicting subjects of contemporary political controversy or a sensationalistic or gruesome nature are not allowed. It is necessary that all artwork be reviewed by the panel chaired by the Architect of the Capitol and any portion not in consonance with the Commission’s policy will be omitted from the exhibit. If an entrant is unsure about whether a piece of artwork is acceptable, he or she should contact the staff of his or her Member of Congress; the congressional staff can speak with personnel who can determine whether the artwork would be accepted. For more information, constituents can call Congressman Allen’s office at (706) 228-1980. ###
09.21.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) received the Friend of Farm Bureau Award by the American Farm Bureau Federation (AFBF). AFBF gives the award at the end of each Congress to legislators who have at least a 60 percent voting record in agreement with AFBF priority issues. Allen currently serves on the House Agriculture Committee. In awarding the Friend of Farm Bureau Award, AFBF considered the votes legislators cast on legislation pertaining to food security and safety, regulatory reform, technology and trade. The AFBF Board of Directors, on which Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long serves, established these priority issues. "We're extremely grateful for the support we receive from our members of Congress, which is essential to the continued success of Georgia farmers" Georgia Farm Bureau President Gerald Long said. "These members voted with Farm Bureau's position on numerous key agricultural issues during the 114th Congress." “I am honored to be named a Friend of Farm Bureau by the American Farm Bureau Federation,” said Rep. Allen. “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry and I will always work to strengthen and support policies for the men and women who provide for our nation.” The first recipients of the Friend of Farm Bureau Award were announced in September 1996 and have been announced every other September thereafter near the end of subsequent congresses. Founded in 1937, Georgia Farm Bureau is the state's largest general farm organization and has 158 county offices. Its volunteer members actively participate in local, state and national activities that promote agriculture awareness to their non-farming neighbors. GFB offers its members a wide variety of benefits, including insurance, but enrollment in member benefits is optional and not a requirement for membership. Read more: http://www.gfb.org/agnews/story.asp?RecordID=6269#ixzz4KpFEvESb ###
09.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB), the nation’s leading advocate for small businesses, awarded Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) with its biennial Guardian of Small Business Award for his outstanding support of America’s small business owners in the 114th Congress. “Many elected officials claim that they are champions of small business, but our Guardian Award shows our members and other small business owners who is really fighting for them,” said NFIB President and CEO Juanita Duggan. “Based on his voting record, Rep. Allen is one of the most reliable advocates for small business in Washington.” The Guardian of Small Business is NFIB’s most prestigious award. It is reserved for lawmakers who vote consistently with NFIB on the key issues identified by small business owners. NFIB tracks the votes of every member of Congress. House members and Senators who vote with NFIB members at least 70 percent of the time are eligible for the Guardian Award. “As a former small business owner for over 40 years, I know the struggles that our small businesses face every day,” said Rep. Allen. “I know the impact small businesses have on our local economies and communities, which is why I continuously fight for policies that strengthen our nation’s job creators. I am proud to receive this award and I thank the National Federation of Independent Business.” Allen received a 100 voting record during the 114th Congress. “NFIB is honored to present Rep. Allen with this award,” Duggan said. ###
09.15.2016	Washington, DC—Today, the House of Representatives passed legislation to prohibit the transfer of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. H.R. 5351 temporarily prohibits funds from being used to transfer or release individuals detained at Guantanamo Bay to the United States or a foreign country until the end of the year or the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal year 2017. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in support: “We have a solemn responsibility to protect and defend our country and its citizens, but that appears to have slipped the President’s mind. In an effort to make good on his campaign promises, the President has been releasing Gitmo prisoners one after the next. Lest he forget, these prisoners were sent to Gitmo for a reason and letting them go back into the world is reckless and irresponsible. Not only that, but it is known some former detainees have returned to terrorism and their evil ways. This President needs to stop putting his own failed political legacy before the safety of the American people. I am proud to support this bill and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to immediately take up this measure in the interest of national security.” Click HERE for more information on H.R. 5351. Click HERE for more information FY17 NDAA. ###
08.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) announced he is hosting a Service Academy Day for Georgia-12 students in grades 8th - 12th, on Saturday, August 27, 2016 at Augusta University’s Summerville Campus from 10:00 am to 12:00 pm. This event is designed to provide students with information about our nation’s Military Service Academies and the educational and career opportunities they provide. There will be representatives from each academy present. The five Service Academies are: the United States Military Academy, United States Naval Academy, United States Air Force Academy, United States Merchant Marines Academy, and United States Coast Guard Academy. “It is a privilege to be able to nominate outstanding young folks from Georgia’s 12th district to attend our nation’s military service academies,” said Congressman Allen. “These institutions offer those interested in serving our country a first class education and unique opportunities for students to gain knowledge, tools and leadership skills that prepare them both for military and civilian life. I look forward to meeting students with a passion for selfless service.” The honor of attending a service academy comes with an obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. To be eligible, the applicant must be 17 years of age as of July 1, in the year of admission to a service academy. The applicant must not have passed his or her 23rd birthday. The applicant must also be a United States citizen, unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. WHAT: GA-12 Service Academy Day WHEN: Saturday, August 27, 2016 10:00 am - 12:00 pm WHERE: Augusta University Summerville Campus University Hall (Room 170) 2500 Walton Way Augusta, GA To access the application and learn more about the nomination process visit: /constituent-services/military-academy-nominations.htm or please contact Congressman Allen’s Service Academy Coordinator Paul Lynch at paul.lynch@mail.house.gov or (912) 243-9452. ###
07.14.2016	WASHINGTON, DC-- Today, on the one year anniversary of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, more commonly known as the Iran Deal, the House passed legislation to reinstate sanctions on Iran’s human rights abuses and state sponsorship of terrorism, legislation preventing the United States from buying heavy water from Iran and legislation prohibiting the Department of the Treasury from allowing US currency in transactions outside the United States financial system involving Iran. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) gave the following speech on the House floor this afternoon: Click HERE to watch Rep. Rick Allen’s speech. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Mr. Speaker, July 14th 2015— the day our President went against Congress and the wishes of the American people and signed a nuclear agreement with Iran. The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, more commonly known as the Iran Deal, provided Iran sanctions relief in exchange for Iran to dismantle their nuclear program. One year later, America has upheld its part of the bargain, but Iran continues to violate the terms of the agreement with little to no consequence. That’s why today, on the one year anniversary of the Iran Deal—the House is voting on legislation to reinstate sanctions on Iran. History has proven Iran cannot be trusted. I thought it was a bad deal for America and Israel from the beginning and I still do. Mr. Speaker, no one can predict the future, but it is foolish to turn a blind eye to history. I voted to stop the Iran deal because I could not support any agreement that puts the security of Americans and our allies at risk and emboldens the Iranian regime. A year later, I feel the same way.” ###
07.11.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 3179, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act. This legislation works to make students financially aware by improving the timing and frequency of loan counseling so they can make smart decisions when it comes to paying for their higher education. As a member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement: “Acceptance into college is one of life’s greatest achievements. This feeling of achievement can be short-lived when you realize just how much your dream school can cost you. Even though a number of students receive scholarships in their financial aid packages and work while earning their degree, that is not always enough to cover growing costs. Currently there is over $1.2 trillion in outstanding student loan debt and the average undergraduate debt is around $35,000 upon graduation. Knowing these statistics and the negative effects vast debt can have on those just starting out, we must ensure that all students embarking on higher education are fully informed of the debt they are taking on and encourage them to explore ways to pay for college other than incurring debt. That is why I am so pleased to see this legislation pass the House in a bipartisan manner. This bill provides annual financial counseling to those who accept financial aid annually throughout their college careers so they are fully aware of the commitment they are making. Additionally, it provides exit counseling for students to help those who have already received federal aid make wise decisions upon graduation. Ensuring our students have the tools they need to be financially aware and make smart choices when it comes to their education is crucial. Knowledge is power, and informing students will help empower their futures.” ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Rick Allen (R- Ga.-12), a member of the House Agriculture Committee, released the following reminder to Georgia-12 farmers regarding the Cotton Ginning Cost-Share Program announced by the USDA in early June: I want to share news from Washington regarding cotton production in Georgia’s 12th Congressional District. Eligible producers for the 2015 cotton crop year have been extended a Cotton Ginning Cost-Share program from the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). This one time program is based on a producer’s 2015 cotton acres reported to the Farm Service Agency (FSA) multiplied by 40 percent of the average ginning cost for our production region. The Cotton Ginning Cost-Share Program was announced by USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack in early June 2016 and the deadline to apply is August 5, 2016, the program is already open to applicants. Be sure to contact your local FSA county office or visit www.fsa.usda.gov/cgcs and have your paper work completed and submitted by the August 5, 2016 deadline. If you require additional assistance, my staff in our local offices are here to help! Please feel free to use us as a resource. Check below for the office closest to you: AUGUSTA OFFICE DUBLIN OFFICE STATESBORO OFFICE VIDALIA OFFICE 2743 Perimeter Parkway Bldg. 200, Suite 225 Augusta, GA 30909 Phone: (706) 228-1980 Fax: (706) 228-1954 101 N. Jefferson St. Dublin, GA 31021 Phone: (478) 272-4030 Fax: (478) 277-0113 50 E. Main Street Statesboro, GA 30458 Phone: (912) 243-9452 Fax: (912) 243-9453 107 Old Airport Road, Suite A Vidalia, GA 30475 Phone: (912) 403-3311 Fax: (912) 403-3317 ###
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s 4-4 decision in the United States v. Texas, commonly referred to as the legal case against Obama’s Executive Amnesty. Due to this tie, the lower court’s decision will be upheld: the President’s attempt to use executive action to grant amnesty is unlawful. “Today’s decision is a victory for the Constitution, which specifically grants Congress the power to write our laws. This President has a long history of ignoring the laws he does not like and attempting to unilaterally write his own—but try as he might, the Constitution does not give him this power. The President’s Executive Amnesty has been a long battle. The House, with my support, passed an amicus brief on behalf of the entire House of Representatives to further explain how the President overstepped his constitutional limitations. In addition to Texas, my home state of Georgia joined a total of twenty-six states in a lawsuit challenging the President on his executive actions on immigration. Clearly, the President’s agenda was not the peoples’ agenda. I am glad that the President’s acts were rightfully ruled unlawful, and the integrity of our nation’s most fundamental document, the Constitution, was restored. This decision should be a reality check for our out-of-control executive branch.”
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 5293, the Defense Appropriations Bill for Fiscal Year 2017. This bipartisan legislation serves as the vehicle to provide funding for the Department of Defense and funds critical programs regarding national security, military operations abroad and health and quality of life services for those in the Armed Forces and their families. H.R. 5293 passed the House by a vote of 282-138. Rep. Allen released the following statement after its passage: “Strong national security begins with a strong defense. I was proud to vote in favor of this legislation and was glad to see my colleagues on both sides of the aisle come together on a bill that works for the good of the country. The Defense Appropriations Bill provides our armed forces with needed resources to ensure military readiness, from a pay raise, to increased funding for cyber capabilities, the future of modern warfare, to funding the global war on terrorism. Voting against this bill was not an option—it is our duty to provide for our nation’s military men and women and their families. In the wake of Orlando we need to be doing all we can to protect our citizens and our country from all who seek to destroy us and our way of life—that begins with the passage of this legislation. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act quickly and pass this vital appropriations bill.” FY2017 DOD Appropriations Act: Fully funds the authorized 2.1% pay raise for the military, instead of the 1.6% requested by the President Maintains prohibitions on transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, prevents construction of facilities in the U.S., and prohibits closure or transfer of Naval Station Guantanamo Bay Provides $58.6 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations Account, including the global war on terrorism Increases spending to $992 million above FY16 levels for Cyber Defense, bolstering cyber defensive and offensive capabilities across the Department of Defense and directly affecting Fort Gordon Provides $282 million for cancer research, $450 million for medical facility upgrades, $125 million for traumatic brain injury and psychological health research, and $296 million for sexual assault prevention and response Prevents the Administration’s proposed troop reductions ###
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement after the terrorist attack in Orlando: “Robin and I were shocked and saddened to learn of the horrendous attack in Orlando over the weekend. As we continue to learn more, currently 49 innocent people were murdered at the hands of radical Islamic terrorism. This is another attack on humanity, when will enough be enough? When there is another massacre on American soil? When America leads, the world is safe—and we must step up to wipe out this threat, because radical terrorists will stop at nothing to destroy all who do not agree with them. Robin and I pray for the victims, their families, loved ones and friends. We pray for the wounded and our first responders and we lift up the Orlando community and the state of Florida. America must stand united in the face of terrorism.” ###
06.10.2016	WASHINGTON, DC-- Today, the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health held a hearing on Rep. Rick Allen’s (R-Ga.-12) bill, H.R. 4262, the Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act and other legislation, which work to advance a patient centered and cost-effective approach to our healthcare system. Allen issued the following statement in support of the hearing: “I thank the House Energy and Commerce Committee for their discussion of my bill during the subcommittee hearing today. I was pleased to see that there was no opposition to my bill. Each witness testifying, two republican and one democrat, spoke in support of H.R. 4262. As we’ve seen in places like Oregon, Hawaii, Nevada and others, Obamacare state exchanges are faulting, and many are on shaky grounds. We need a strategy in place to recoup the billions of no strings attached taxpayer dollars doled out by the President to establish these state exchanges. My bill is simple--it brings transparency to the taxpayer and accountability to state exchanges by providing clear steps to recoup federal funds when they ultimately fail. I am glad to see the committee taking an interest in my legislation, because with more state exchanges on the verge of failure, we need policy and a plan in place now.” Background: When Obamacare was signed into law, the President freely gave money away to states to establish the state exchanges— however they forgot one piece of the puzzle. They provided no solution for recovering these funds when the state exchanges failed. Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent since and state exchanges in multiple states have failed. The Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act provides two important steps in recovering taxpayer assets and ensuring transparency: Conducts an audit to see how and where money was spent Requires all unused funds to be returned to the Treasury Department for deficit reduction and any real property purchased be returned to the General Services Administration
05.23.2016	GEORGIA.—Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced that he has received the “Hero of Main Street” award from the National Retail Federation for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. Rep. Allen is part of a bi-partisan group honored for their support of a wide range of issues including infrastructure investment, tax reform and labor issues. “As a small business owner for over 40 years, I am proud to receive this award. Small businesses are the backbone of our local communities and economies. In Washington, I will continue to fight for policies that are pro-growth and pro-business because that is how we will grow the economy and get people back to work. I thank the National Retail Federation for this recognition,” said Rep. Allen. “Rep. Allen has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small, and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “Rep. Allen is an advocate for his thriving Main Street and to the long-term growth of the retail industry -- our nation’s largest job creators and the catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.” The Hero of Main Street award was created by NRF in 2013 to recognize members of Congress for support of the retail industry’s public policy priorities. Eligibility is based on NRF’s Retail Opportunity Index, bill sponsorship and advocacy to advance the industry’s priorities. The “heroes” have supported policies and initiatives defined by NRF that recognize the contributions of the retail industry, and have worked to encourage a “vibrant, sustained and healthy” retail sector. NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Retail is the nation’s largest private sector employer, supporting one in four U.S. jobs – 42 million working Americans. Contributing $2.6 trillion to annual GDP, retail is a daily barometer for the nation’s economy. NRF’s This is Retail campaign highlights the industry’s opportunities for life-long careers, how retailers strengthen communities, and the critical role that retail plays in driving innovation. nrf.com ###
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2017. The NDAA is annual legislation which authorizes defense spending and sets priorities for the U.S. military. Congressman Allen issued the following statement in strong support after the House’s passage today: “The NDAA is singlehandedly one of the most vital pieces of legislation that comes before Congress. Not only does it fulfill our Constitutional responsibility to protect this nation and its citizens, but also reaffirms our commitment to supporting our men and women in uniform. Nothing is more important to me than securing the needed resources for our troops so that they can be ready at a moment’s notice to defend our nation. This is the least we can do for our servicemen and women who sacrifice so much. I have worked diligently with my colleagues on the Armed Services Committee to ensure our military capabilities remain the greatest in the world. As warfare continues to modernize, our tools to fight must continue to evolve as well. We are very fortunate to have Fort Gordon in the Augusta area, a leading base in Army Cyber warfare. Specific to Georgia’s 12th district, this year’s NDAA authorizes full funding for projects to aide in the expansion of Ft. Gordon, as requested by the Army. I was proud to offer an amendment to the NDAA to expand the Army Cyber ROTC program in the base bill to universities working with Cyber Institutes at the Service Academies. The passage of my amendment will help bring cyber ROTC programs to universities across the country looking to train our future military leaders, including Augusta University. Cyber is the future of modern warfare and these projects are vital to establishing a 21st century military. By supporting this year’s NDAA, I hope to ensure that our soldiers are properly equipped with the resources they need and deserve to defend our great nation. During a time of such turmoil and unrest, the NDAA is key to restoring Americans’ confidence in not only their futures, but the future of this country. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to act immediately and pass this legislation—our national security depends on it.” Specific to Georgia’s 12th District, this year’s NDAA: Authorizes full funding for projects to aid in the expansion of Ft. Gordon including: New access control point, or gate, to alleviate traffic and provide quicker access to Ft. Gordon Second round of authorized funding for completion of the U.S. Army Cyber Command on Ft. Gordon Cyber protections ops facility Medical clinic replacement Authorizes full funding for the Savannah River Site (SRS) to: Ensure SRS continues to operate in a safe and efficient manner Provide funding for nuclear material management, environmental cleanup, and community support. Additionally, this funding will ensure the construction of the only mixed oxide fuel (MOX) manufacturing plant in the U.S. stays on track. ###
05.10.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce released a report which found that a top Center for Medicare and Medicare Services Administrator had provided misleading testimony to Congress regarding state-run Obamacare exchanges and the grant money used to establish them. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) recently introduced legislation, H.R. 4262, the Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act, to address this problem by establishing a plan to recoup federal funds when state exchanges fail and protect taxpayers from footing the bill. Rep. Rick Allen issued the following statement in response to the committee’s findings: “Clearly, state exchanges have even more problems than we know about if a CMS Administrator cannot speak correctly or accurately on what they have already cost the American people. When Obamacare was signed into law, money was freely given to states to establish state exchanges with no further instructions. Since then, we have seen states like Hawaii, Oregon and New Mexico fail and others are currently struggling. I think I speak for American taxpayers when I ask, what happened to the money if the exchange failed? Taxpayers should not be left paying back the balance due to poor planning on the Administration’s part. We need a policy in place to solve this problem, because with more states failing, it is clear this is not going away. My legislation addresses this problem through a two-step process in which an audit is conducted to see how and where the money was spent and then requires any unused funds be returned back to the federal government to pay down the national debt. I urge my colleagues to support this measure so that we can provide accurate and honest answers to the American public about where their tax dollars are being spent—not lies like the Administration has told us.” Rep. Rick Allen’s H.R. 4262, Legislation to Protect Americans from Failed State Exchanges: 1. Ensures states have kept records and properly reported how federal funds were spent by requiring states to submit records of expenses to Congress as well as the Department of Health and Human Services 2. Requires all unused funds to be returned to the Treasury Department for deficit reduction and any real property purchased be returned to the General Services Administration Click HERE to read the full Energy and Commerce Committee report. ###
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 4903 by voice vote. This legislation prohibits the use of funds by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to target citizens for exercising their First Amendment rights, and was authored by Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12). H.R. 4903 works to protect taxpayers from unconstitutional scrutiny and discrimination by the IRS based on their beliefs and views. "Americans have not forgotten the targeting scandal at the IRS, when known Tea Party and other conservative groups were singled out when trying to apply for tax-exempt status. The Obama Administration may have chosen not to prosecute the ring leader, Lois Lerner, for her unconstitutional actions, but Congress has a responsibility to speak for the people of this country. I was proud to introduce legislation to protect Americans’ constitutional rights and prevent the IRS and its rogue agency bureaucrats from further abusing their power. Every year, Americans pay their taxes. They should not be further burdened with the fear that they may be singled out for their strongly held beliefs and convictions. It is disappointing that it takes an act of Congress to remind the IRS that the Constitution is the law of the land – and that they must abide by it. I thank my colleagues for their bipartisan and unanimous support of this legislation. Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) has introduced a companion bill in the Senate and I urge them to quickly take up this measure. Congress holds the purse strings and we must tighten our grip before the IRS strikes again,” said Rep. Rick Allen. Click HERE to watch Rep. Rick Allen discuss H.R. 4903 on the House floor. ###
04.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) introduced legislation to prohibit the use of funds by the Internal Revenue Service to target citizens for exercising their First Amendment rights. H.R. 4903 upholds Americans’ constitutional freedoms and checks the IRS’ power, thereby preventing the agency from discriminating against certain groups for their beliefs and views. “Americans have seen federal agencies abuse their power—and the IRS is one of the worst offenders. In seasons past, the IRS has specifically targeted conservative groups simply for being conservative. This is a direct violation of the First Amendment. I am proud to introduce legislation to preserve the integrity of the First Amendment by ensuring its protections are never compromised by unelected federal bureaucrats. My legislation protects Americans by prohibiting the use of funds by IRS and its bureaucrats to carry out government abuse on citizens for exercising their God given constitutional rights. I can think of nothing more despicable. Tax Day is stressful enough with the tax code we have in place. The IRS has no business in striking fear into the hearts of Americans for expressing their strongly held beliefs and convictions. The Constitution is the law of the land, whether the IRS likes it or not.” ###
04.07.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) recently announced the opportunity for young Georgians in the 12th Congressional District to participate in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to high school students, grades 9-12, who live or attend school in the 12th District. The winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year, alongside other winning entries from across the country, and also be invited to attend a special ceremony in Washington, D.C. The first, second, and third runner up winner’s artwork will be showcased in Congressman Allen’s Washington, D.C. and district offices. In addition, there will be a “People’s Choice Award” winner, which constituents will choose by visiting Congressman Allen’s Facebook page and voting on submitted entries from April 20-27. The “People’s Choice Award” artwork will also be displayed in one of Congressman Allen’s offices. Congressman Allen will announce all winners on Sunday, May 1, 2016 at 3:00 pm at an awards ceremony and reception, which will take place at the City of Waynesboro Ice Plant in Waynesboro, Georgia and invites all students and families of students who submitted applications to attend. “The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful opportunity to highlight the creativity and artistic talents of high school students in Georgia and across the country,” said Congressman Allen. “I look forward to seeing submissions from our young artists in the 12th district and encourage all interested high school students to take part in this special tradition.” Artwork submitted must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate U.S. copyright laws. For more specific guidelines for competition entries, please visit Congressman Allen’s website HERE. Students may submit one piece of artwork for entry in the competition from April 13-15 at one of the following drop-off locations. Entries should have the student’s release form attached to the back of his or her artwork when submitted. Congressman Allen’s District Office in Augusta: 2743 Perimeter Parkway, Bldg. 200, Suite 225, Augusta, GA, 30909 (9am-5pm) Dublin High School: 1127 Hillcrest Parkway, Dublin GA 31021 Appling County High School: 482 Blackshear Highway, Baxley, GA 31513 Vidalia Heritage Academy Upper School: 207 East Second Street, Vidalia, GA 30474 Statesboro High School: 10 Lester Road, Statesboro, GA 30458 Emanuel County Institute: 102 South College Street, Twin City, GA 30471 For more information, constituents can call Congressman Allen’s office at (706) 228-1980.
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, FRC Action hosted its annual True Blue Award ceremony honoring members of Congress who received 100 percent scores on FRC Action's Vote Scorecard for demonstrating an unwavering commitment and consistent support of faith, family, and freedom during the first session of the 114th Congress. Scores of House members -- including U.S. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) -- and Senators were in attendance to receive their True Blue award. Votes in the U.S. House included: • Eliminating Taxpayer funding for Abortion • Repealing Obamacare • Repealing the Death Tax • Banning abortion on five month-old pain-capable unborn children • Short Term Government Funding without Defunding Planned Parenthood • Defunding Planned Parenthood and Repealing Key Elements of Obamacare Family Research Council Action President Tony Perkins made the following comments: “We thank Representative Allen for consistently voting to uphold the fundamentals of faith, family and freedom. Rep. Allen voted to repeal key parts of Obamacare, protect the unborn, end the forced partnership between taxpayers and Planned Parenthood, and protect state marriage laws before the Supreme Court changed the historic definition of marriage. “We can be encouraged by elected officials who are willing to be criticized by some in the media and the intolerant voices of secularism as they stand for family values. Congress as a whole is often criticized, and rightfully so, but there are individual Members, like Rep. Allen, who deserve praise for their unwavering commitment to stand for life, family, marriage, and religious liberty. “Family Research Council Action and the hundreds of thousands of families we represent are proud to recognize these men and women for their faithful work. Our hope is that in the next Congress, he will be joined by many more like him,” Perkins concluded. To view a copy of the Vote Scorecard, visit http://www.frcaction.org/scorecard -30- ###
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.—The U.S. Chamber of Commerce today honored U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) with its annual Spirit of Enterprise Award, given in recognition of Rep. Allen’s support for pro-jobs, pro-growth policies in the first session of the 114th Congress. This marks the 28th year that the U.S. Chamber has formally honored the accomplishments of this select group of members of Congress. “We are pleased to recognize Rep. Allen for engaging in pro-business policymaking that helps strengthen our nation’s spirit of enterprise,” said Tom Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The Spirit of Enterprise Award honors those members of Congress who are committed to ensuring that American businesses can continue to operate and succeed in a free enterprise system.” The Chamber’s prestigious Spirit of Enterprise Award is given annually to members of Congress based on their votes on critical business legislation as outlined in the Chamber publication, How They Voted. Members who supported the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of those votes qualify to receive the award.
03.10.2016	STATESBORO, GA—Today, Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) hosted the 2016 Georgia-12 Youth Leadership Summit. Over 400 junior and senior high school students and educators from across the 12th district came to Georgia Southern University for a day of fun, learning and fellowship. Students heard from special guests: COL Sam Anderson, Garrison Commander at Ft. Gordon, Stephanie Miller, Y96 radio, Tyson Summers, Head Football Coach of Georgia Southern University and Congressman Tom Graves, representing the 14th District of Georgia. “I was completely blown away by the turnout today,” stated Rep. Allen “Our district is so fortunate to have such bright students with a dedication to learning and a passion for leadership. It was evident that the young folks in Georgia-12 are an exceptional class of leaders who will step up to any occasion. This event was held to inspire our students as they gathered in a room among their peers and heard from leaders from all walks of life. I am excited by their energy and am so grateful to the educators who brought them. It was a wonderful day in Statesboro.”
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON, DC—Today, President Obama released his $4.1 trillion budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2017. In it includes a $3.4 trillion tax hike, $2.5 trillion in new spending over the next decade and a $10 tax on every barrel of oil. Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) issued the following statement in response: “This budget proposal is more of the same—more taxes, more spending and more harm done to the American people. The President is focused solely on grasping for a political legacy and the American people are left unaccounted for. Instead of using his last year in office to focus on real issues facing the country, the President has chosen to fund his pie-in-the-sky green energy plans. The President’s oil tax will not only be felt at the pump, but hurt American jobs and a major sector of our economy. The President needs to reassess his out-of-touch priorities. As parents, we teach our children to be smart with money, the President is no exception. A phrase I heard a lot as a small business owner for over 40 years, was, ‘can we afford it?’ Washington needs to start asking this question, because the answer is no. More and more reckless spending is more and more debt to be piled onto younger generations. The best hope we have for fiscal responsibility lies at the ballot box in November—with the next President.”
02.03.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Over 100 Members of Congress including many members of the House Committee on Agriculture, including Rep. Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12), joined Chairman Mike Conaway of Texas, on a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (UDSA) Secretary Tom Vilsack seeking assistance for American cotton farmers and communities that rely heavily on the cotton industry to designate cottonseed as ‘other oilseed’. This designation, in accordance with the 2014 Farm Bill, could allow cotton farmers, if fully implemented, access to farm programs like Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) or Price Loss Coverage (PLC). Media reports have recently indicated Secretary Vilsack will deny the request from over 100 Members of Congress. Rep. Allen issued the following statement in response: “Agriculture is Georgia’s number one industry, and our number one economic driver. Cotton is a major factor in Georgia’s Ag economy and is a way of life for many in my district. Foreign countries like China and India have gravely affected the global cotton market—passing subsidies to their farmers while stockpiling cotton, driving up supply and decreasing global prices. These actions simply aren’t fair and we must ensure American farmers can compete. The American cotton industry is struggling and does not have any tools to help cope with devastatingly low prices. Designating cottonseed as an ‘other oilseed’ would be a great first step to putting cotton farmers back on a level playing field. As I await an official response from Secretary Vilsack, I urge him to look at the damage being done to cotton country. While he may question the intent of Congress, the many signatures prove strong Congressional support and intent, including those of the lead author and many conferees of the 2014 Farm Bill. The current cotton crisis deserves immediate action. These farmers are the backbone of the state of Georgia and the United States.” ###
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) issued the following statement on the House’s vote to override the President’s recent veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. This vote needed a 2/3 majority to pass, and failed by a vote of 241-186. “Over the past year, I have consistently heard from Georgians of the 12th District about the burdens Obamacare has inflicted. I have heard from families who lost their coverage, small business owners whose premiums have doubled and individuals who predict a large and growing percentage of their income will go towards their healthcare plan. Recently, the Congressional Budget Office showed deficits rising due to expanding costs of federal healthcare. When will this Administration wake up? This law is crushing economic growth and even worse—it is crushing Americans and American families. The President should ask himself if the sake of a political legacy was worth all of this. It’s not. After six long years of Obamacare, Americans deserve better. Despite the partisanship shown in today’s vote, I was still proud to stand up and be a voice of those I represent. It’s time that the legislative and executive branches stand united for a common cause: the American people, and once and for all establish healthcare policy that is cost-effective and patient-centered.” H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Reconciliation Act repeals key provisions of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood for one year through the budget reconciliation process. This measure passed both chambers earlier this Congress and was then vetoed by the President. Rep. Allen recently spoke in support of this legislation, click HERE to watch.
02.02.2016	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act. This legislation prevents sanctions from being lifted from banks and individuals who are connected to terrorism or Iran’s weapons development program. H.R. 3662 passed the House by a vote of 246-181. “Iran has continually demonstrated they cannot be trusted. In December, Iran made headlines by conducting two ballistic missile tests—already violating the deal that the President forced on the American people earlier this Congress. This is the same Iran that funnels money to Hezbollah to carry out terrorist attacks, is the world’s leading State Sponsor of Terrorism and awards medals for the capture of U.S. soldiers. Yet, as Iran continues down this destructive path, the Administration has remained silent. We do not need to be rewarding bad actors nor should we be sitting on our hands. How many times does Iran have to violate this deal or denounce America before this Administration will reverse its course? In the interest of national security and in the interest of our ally Israel, sanctions are absolutely necessary. I urge my colleagues in the Senate to immediately take up this legislation that holds Iran accountable.” H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act: Enhances Congressional oversight and ties the hands of the Administration on their ability to implement the Iran Deal Ensures that the Obama Administration cannot lift sanctions against individuals or banks that support Iranian weapons development or those involved in carrying out acts of terrorism Congressman Allen recently spoke in favor of H.R. 3662. Click HERE to watch.
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Rick Allen (R- Ga.-12) issued the following statement in response to the President’s final State of the Union address: “Tonight, Americans heard the same flowery language as they have for the last seven years, but it’s all the same—empty words. Americans, myself included, are tired of words. Words will not secure our border, words will not create jobs or grow the economy and they definitely will not protect our nation and defend our citizens. It has been an incredibly frustrating seven years and after tonight, it is evident that year eight will be no different. While I hoped the President would take this time to finally provide the country with a strategy on combatting ISIS, one of the most pressing issues facing our country, he again failed to do so. Not only that, but his continued effort to try and shutdown Guantanamo Bay jeopardizes the safety of our country. This Administration needs to stop trying to only keep campaign promises and pander to the left, but listen to the will of the American people. The American people want the Keystone Pipeline, but this Administration formally rejected it. The American people are concerned about their security and supporting our troops, yet this President vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act. The American people are crying out because of the cost of their healthcare plans, yet the President continues to choose his political legacy over the middle class. And yet tonight, the President bragged about his climate change agreement, reinventing our energy sector and creating more government programs in the name of growing an economy that works better for everybody. This only further proves how out-of-touch this President is and remains. It was made clear tonight that there will be no new leaf turned over in the final year of this Administration. Refusing to admit failure, President Obama will stay the course championing his political legacy over each and every American. As long as the President has his pen and his phone, with unelected, agency bureaucrats on speed-dial, he will continue to legislate around Congress and ignore the Constitution and the will of the people. Thus it is blatantly evident that the best way to end gridlock in Washington is with a new president. Georgians of the 12th District, you can rest assured that although the President’s history of working with Republicans is bleak, I will not let his veto power dictate my agenda or priorities. I will fight hard for an agenda that is built from the bottom up where the American people drive the political calendar, not Washington.”
01.08.2016	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) issued the following statement on the President’s veto of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act: “For the greater part of the Obama Administration, the President has pushed an activist agenda that is out-of-touch with the views of the American people. Today, Americans heard loud and clear that this President values protecting his own political legacy over alleviating the burden of his costly and flawed healthcare law and defending society’s most innocent—the unborn. Rather than admit fault, the President turns a blind eye and continues down his own path towards more failed policies. I support overriding this veto and it is my hope that our next President will chose to work with and not around Congress to represent the will of the people.” H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Reconciliation Act repeals key provisions of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood for one year through the budget reconciliation process. This measure passed both chambers earlier this Congress.
01.06.2016	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which repeals key provisions of Obamacare and defunds Planned Parenthood for one year through the budget reconciliation process. H.R. 3762 previously passed the House where it was amended in the Senate due to parliamentary procedure. After today’s passage, the bill will go straight to the President’s desk. H.R. 3762 passed the House today by a vote of 240-181. “Since Obamacare was forced on the American people, premiums have increased, deductibles have become unreachable, millions have been dropped from their insurance plans and access to physicians has been diminished. After five years of this disaster, Americans deserve better. I was proud to cast my vote in favor of this important bill. Not only does this legislation alleviate the burden of a disastrous healthcare law, but it protects the most innocent in our society—the unborn. I have consistently heard from Georgians of the 12th district who are depending on Congress to get rid of Obamacare and the strain and hardships it causes. Not only that, but I—and Americans from all across the country—have been absolutely outraged by the lack of humanity shown in the Planned Parenthood videos. This legislation ensures taxpayer money is not given to abortion clinics and funds are instead given to community health centers. Now, it’s the President’s turn to act. He will have to choose between dismantling a costly and disastrous law and preventing disregard for human life or protecting his own political legacy.” Reconciliation is a powerful, filibuster-proof budget procedure to expedite spending reform. H.R. 3762 guts Obamacare’s individual and employer mandates, repeals the costly Cadillac and medical device taxes and eliminates the federal government’s authority to run the exchanges. In addition to this, it defunds Planned Parenthood for one year and provides additional funding for community health centers so that women can continue to have access to quality care. This is the first time that Congress is sending a broad repeal of Obamacare to the President’s desk. This bill also reduces the deficit by over $500 billion. Rep. Rick Allen recently spoke in favor of this legislation. Click HERE to watch.
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON, DC--Today, U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today released the following statement on the President’s proposed executive actions on gun control: “The Second Amendment ensures Americans the right to bear arms, and Congress has been committed to preserving those constitutional rights. However, this President has a history of going around Congress and legislating through executive orders and regulatory overreach to get his way—and this time he has chosen to champion gun control. As we have seen in recent events, the threat of terror is more real than ever, and stripping law abiding citizens’ Second Amendment rights does nothing to promote safety and protection. We have the Constitution for a reason, and I will work to always ensure that our right to bear arms is not infringed upon. President Obama needs to abandon his radical, anti-constitutional agenda and direct his focus on the real issues facing our country, including radical Islamic Terrorists. ”
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement on H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, commonly known as the Omnibus. “Last week, the House passed H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016, or as it’s more commonly known—the Omnibus. While this legislation was far from perfect, it provided critical funding for the expansion of Ft. Gordon, allocated funds to deepen the Port of Savannah, lifted the ban on U.S. oil exports, worked to protect our state and industries from harmful water regulations and provided critical funding for our nation’s military. Especially now, national security must be a top priority. If the House did not pass the Omnibus, the next option would have been a Continuing Resolution, which would not have funded any of the previously mentioned programs and would have gutted military funding.” H.R. 2029, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2016: For Georgia: Includes critical funding for defense and nondefense programs, such as the Cyber Command, and Fort Gordon will receive $90 million for military construction Reauthorizes the Augusta Canal for two years Includes $21 million in federal funding for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project Provides needed funding for a new poultry lab at the University of Georgia Made harmful language null and void that would have cost the state of Georgia millions of dollars and involved the federal government in the use of Georgia’s waters For the Country: Ends the 1975 ban on the export of American oil, which in turn will grow our economy and create jobs Strengthens the Visa Waiver Program to protect the safety of our country and citizens by denying visa waiver status to any individual who has traveled to certain terrorist hotspots, including Syria and Iraq in the last five years Prohibits new funding for Obamacare Repeals mandatory country-of-origin labeling (COOL) requirements on American meats, ensuring our country is not burdened with more than $1 billion in trade penalties Prevents the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to American soil
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON, DC--Today, U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today introduced H.R. 4262, the Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act. This legislation ensures that American taxpayers are not left paying for the failures of Obamacare by holding states that have set up state exchanges accountable and providing clear steps to recoup federal funds when they ultimately fail. “After five years of failed policies and higher cost of care, it has become crystal clear that Obamacare was not well thought out. When this legislation was signed into law, the President freely gave money away to states to establish the state exchanges— however they forgot one piece of the puzzle. They provided no solution for recovering these funds when the state exchanges failed. Billions of taxpayer dollars have been spent since—and the taxpayers should not be on the hook for subsidizing these failed exchanges. My legislation fixes the problems by providing a plan to recover federal funds when the state exchanges fail and requires unused funds to be returned back to the federal government to pay down the national debt. The shortcomings of Obamacare should not be placed on the backs of American taxpayers.” The Transparency and Accountability of Failed Exchanges Act provides two important steps in recovering taxpayer assets and ensuring transparency: Ensures states have kept records and properly reported how federal funds were spent by requiring states to submit records of expenses to Congress as well as the Department of Health and Human Services Requires all unused funds to be returned to the Treasury Department for deficit reduction and any real property purchased be returned to the General Services Administration Congressman Allen recently spoke on his legislation, to watch his speech click HERE. This legislation has been endorsed by Americans for Tax Reform, National Taxpayers Union, Council for Affordable Health Coverage and Citizens Against Government Waste. ###
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) voted in favor of H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015. This bill works to strengthen the security of the Visa Waiver Program (VWP), a program that allows citizens from 38 participating countries to travel to the U.S for up to 90 days without a visa. This bill passed by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 407-19. “Terrorists rely heavily on their travel documents. These papers are a critical piece in their evil plight, just as important as weapons. This legislation comes at a crucial time when terrorists seek to destroy us and our way of life. I was proud that the House supported this legislation with an overwhelming majority earlier today. As we have seen in France, terrorists will take advantage of any policy or program that allows them to mobilize and spread radical terrorism. Bottom line, this legislation works to prohibit individuals seeking to inflict harm upon Americans and America from gaining access into our country. By requiring oversight from the Department of Homeland Security to hold the participating countries accountable, this legislation bolsters the defense of the United States. The House will continue to pass legislation that increases our national security and I will continue to act with the safety of the American people in mind.” Background on the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) Created in 1986 and allows nationals from 38 participating countries to travel to the U.S. for up to 90 days for business or tourism without obtaining a U.S. visa, by presenting a valid passport, and by meeting certain other requirements To be designated as a VWP country, the country must meet certain requirements and participate in security reviews every other year Background on H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 Requires countries participating in our VWP to continuously share terrorism and foreign traveler data with the United States and requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to suspend their participation if they do not meet this requirement Removes the ability for people to use VWP who hold multiple passports from countries like Syria, Iran, Iraq and Sudan or those who have been to those countries within the last 5 years, who could have radicalized Requires people who fall under the previously mentioned categories to apply for a visa just like citizens of most nations already have to do in order to come to the United States Prevents the VWP from being used as a fast-track for terrorists to enter the United States ###
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted to support the bipartisan, bicameral Every Student Succeeds Act. This legislation was approved first by a House and Senate conference committee to replace No Child Left Behind. This legislation passed the House by a vote of 359-64. “Today the House voted to scale back the presence of Washington in our classrooms by restoring authority to those who know our students best. As we have seen, the current top down and ‘one size fits all’ approach to education is not working. The Every Student Succeeds Act stops federal micromanagement and places new restrictions on the Secretary of Education, but most importantly it allows states and local school districts to address the needs of their students. Teachers, school officials and parents have an ear to the ground each day; they are the ones who know what our schoolchildren need to succeed—not Washington. This legislation is a great step forward from the current, unworkable and ineffective policies of No Child Left Behind, and although this legislation may not be perfect, it is a vast improvement to our current education system. I am honored to serve on the House Education and Workforce Committee, where I worked with my colleagues to pass the Student Success Act (H.R. 5), which laid the framework for conservative principles in the Every Student Succeeds Act . ” Key points from the Committee on Education and Workforce for S. 1177 include: This legislation reduces the federal role in K-12 education by: Repealing the one-size-fits-all federal accountability system; Ending the era of federally-mandated high-stakes testing; Prohibiting the secretary of education from dictating national education policy or requiring states to adopt Common Core; and Repealing 49 ineffective and duplicative programs, as well as reducing the size of the federal bureaucracy. This legislation restores local control by: Returning responsibility for accountability and school improvement to state and local leaders; Providing school districts more funding flexibility to help school leaders better target federal resources on local needs and priorities; Protecting the right of state and local leaders to determine what standards, assessments, and curriculum are best for their students; and Preserving the right of states to opt-out of federal education programs. The legislation empowers parents by: Providing parents information about local school performance so they can hold their schools accountable; Strengthening the charter schools program and the magnet schools program to offer parents greater school choice; Preventing any federal interference in private schools and home schools; Prohibiting – for the first time in the history of federal K-12 education policy – the use of federal education funds for abortions; and Establishing an equitable per-pupil funding program to provide eligible school districts the ability to allocate federal, state, and local education funds to follow students to the school they attend. Congressman Allen recently spoke in support of this legislation, to watch his speech click HERE.
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of two resolutions disapproving of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) rules to regulate carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from new and existing plants. These resolutions are a response to harmful regulations established by the EPA under the President’s Clean Power Plan. S.J. Res. 23 passed by a vote of 235-188, while S.J. Res 24 passed by a vote of 242-180 and will be sent directly to the President’s desk. “Today the people’s House voted to keep electricity affordable and reliable for Americans. Our forefathers never intended for faceless bureaucracies to write our laws. The EPA’s power grab is out of control, some experts have even said that the Clean Power Plan may be one of the most expensive regulations ever imposed on Americans. This plan will do nothing but raise the cost of energy for consumers and persuade employers to take their businesses elsewhere. I strongly support the passage of these two resolutions and will continue to defend Americans from frivolous regulations that trample the rights of our citizens, hurt our economy and hinder job growth. Currently a majority of states, including Georgia, have filed suit against the EPA for unconstitutional executive overreach. As these cases move through the courts, I am happy that Congress spoke to provide for Congressional disapproval of each rule.” Congressman Allen spoke on the floor in support of S.J. Res 23 and S. J. Res 24. See video of his speech by clicking HERE .
11.19.2015	WASHINGTON, DC--U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015. This legislation protects our national security by establishing the most robust refugee vetting process in our history. The refugee process would be put on hold until the FBI and intelligence community can develop a thorough vetting process for Syrian refugees. This legislation passed the House by a vote of 289-137. “This week, the world was reminded that the threat of terror is not going away. The senseless and inhumane attacks in Paris by ISIS terrorists have stirred the world. No longer can the President continue without a plan of action. We must step up and lead the world in wiping out radical extremism. I was proud to support this bipartisan legislation that creates an extensive vetting process; this is what we need to make sure dangerous individuals do not slip through the cracks. Protecting Americans is the responsibility of the federal government. Rest assured that I will continue to make your safety my top priority.” American SAFE Act of 2015 No refugee from Iraq or Syria will be admitted into the U.S. unless: The FBI Director certifies the background investigation of each refugee The Secretary of Homeland Security, FBI Director and Director of National Intelligence certify to Congress that each refugee is not a security threat to the U.S.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC –Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives passed by voice-vote H.R. 2583, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Process Reform Act - legislation authored by Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Congressman Adam Kinzinger (R-IL). H.R. 2583 includes additional legislation introduced earlier this year by Kinzinger and Congressman Rick Allen (R-GA). That legislation, the FCC Transparency Act, would require the FCC to publish the draft of any item that is circulating on a vote onto the internet before the Commission is able to vote on its final passage. “The House passed important bipartisan legislation today to ensure transparency of the FCC,” said Congressman Allen. “Too often we see bureaucratic agencies making secretive decisions that affect Americans. This is just not right. All Americans should be able to review and voice their concerns on FCC rules. After all, these rules impact everyday Americans and their voice should be heard.” “I am glad that the House of Representatives has come together to pass this legislation that will increase transparency, efficiency, and accountability at the FCC,” said Congressman Kinzinger. “We can all support the notion that all American people, and not just the lobbyists and corporations, should have access and input on the FCC rules that impact our daily life. I appreciate Congressman Allen’s work on this effort to ensure the American public has a voice in their own government.” Background Information: On June 1, 2015, Congressmen Kinzinger and Allen introduced H.R. 2592, the FCC Transparency Act, to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to require the Federal Communications Commission to publish on the website of the Commission documents to be voted on by the Commission. On June 3, 2015, H.R. 2583, the FCC Process Reform Act, was passed out of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce by a bipartisan vote of 30-18. More information about the legislation, authored by Communications and Technology Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), can be found here.
10.27.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today supported the Retail Investor Protection Act, which blocks the Department of Labor’s proposed fiduciary rule. Specifically, H.R. 1090 prohibits the Secretary of Labor from finalizing the rule until the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issues a final rule regarding the fiduciary standard, and requires the SEC to submit a report to Congress considering alternatives. This legislation passed the House with bipartisan support on October 27, 2015 by a vote of 245-186, and now goes to the Senate for passage. Congressman Allen issued the following statement after the House passed the bill earlier today: “In a time when fiscal responsibility and retirement planning is of the utmost importance, this Administration is making it harder for Americans to receive financial advice to plan for the future. The 1,000 page fiduciary rule raises costs and reduces access to financial advice for Americans with low and moderate incomes as well as small businesses. By requiring financial advisors to adhere to a strict, burdensome, and unworkable regulation, retirement advice will no longer be available to those in most need of retirement security. After questioning the Secretary of Labor on this proposed rule, I remain unconvinced that further regulation will help our taxpayers seeking financial advice or eliminate bad actors. I came to Washington to fight regulatory overreach by unelected bureaucrats in government agencies, and the fiduciary rule is a prime example of how the President’s red tape would hurt the people he is claiming to help. The Retail Investor Protection Act will help protect the millions of hardworking taxpayers who rely on financial advisors to assist in planning for their future, and fight this President who wants to send more folks to the government trough.” Allen questioned the Secretary of Labor in the “Restricting Access to Financial Advice: Evaluating the Costs and Consequences for Working Families and Retirees” hearing for the House Education and Workforce Subcommittee on Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions. Video of his questioning can be found here: https://youtu.be/xv8J8zSBJqA?t=1h33m48s Allen also urged his colleagues to vote in favor of this legislation earlier today. Video of his remarks can be found here: https://youtu.be/TwlImsrvEI8.
10.23.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which repeals key provisions of Obamacare through the budget reconciliation process. H.R. 3762 combines legislation from three house committees to repeal provisions in Obamacare, and passed the House by a vote of 240-189. “Having spent almost 40 years in business, I know what it takes to balance a budget—and our House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price did a great job by building consensus and passing the first budget since 2001 that balances in less than 10 years without a single tax increase. Part and parcel with balancing the budget is repealing key job-killing provisions of Obamacare that are burdening our families and businesses. This important legislation repeals the individual and employer mandates, the medical device tax, and the outrageous Cadillac tax; thereby unburdening families and businesses from these harmful mandates. Georgians throughout the 12th district are depending on Congress to repeal these oppressive mandates. This act is a necessary step toward implementing real, patient-centered health care reform, getting our economy back on the right track, and empowering the American people instead of Washington, D.C.” Reconciliation is a powerful, filibuster-proof budget procedure used to expedite spending reform. House Ways & Means, Energy & Commerce, and Education & the Workforce Committees submitted legislation that were combined into H.R. 3762, pursuant to the reconciliation instructions in this year’s balanced budget resolution. This important legislation is projected to reduce deficits by $130 billion over the next ten years.
10.22.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today condemned the President for vetoing the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which gained bipartisan and bicameral support. The final NDAA House and Senate conferenced bill passed both chambers of Congress earlier this month. Congressman Allen issued the following statement after the President vetoed the bill earlier today: “The President’s decision to veto the National Defense Authorization Act, which authorizes critical funding for our troops, is nothing more than a cheap political ploy for his legacy. The U.S. military is no place for political games. In a time of fighting and turmoil, protecting our military is essential. We must fulfill our duty to support our troops and their families who sacrifice so much to protect our nation, and I am appalled by the President’s behavior in vetoing this important legislation. I will continue to be a voice of fiscal reason in Washington, and a strong defender of our military.” The National Defense Authorization Act has been vetoed four times in its history, and in each case, the President vetoed because of a specific provision. President Obama is the first President to veto the bill for his larger domestic, political agenda. The NDAA also included authorization for construction funding at Fort Gordon, which was authorized at the full Army-requested level. Click HERE to read more about Congressman Allen’s support of NDAA and our national defense, and watch his recent video HERE.
10.21.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today supported the reauthorization of the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results Reauthorization Act, or SOAR Act, which would reauthorize scholarships to low-income students to attend private school in the District of Columbia through September 30, 2021. This legislation passed the House on October 21, 2015 by a vote of 240-191. H.R. 10 now goes to the Senate for passage. Congressman Allen issued the following statement after the House passed the bill earlier today: “By providing school choice to low income families, we give parents the flexibility they need to ensure their child is able to attend a school that best meets their academic needs. This program has a proven track record of graduating our students and preparing them for the future.” Allen also urged his colleagues to stand up for school choice by voting in favor of this legislation. Video of his remarks can be found below. https://youtu.be/KAPxrfjdzgo
10.07.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today expressed strong support for action by Congress to approve the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which authorizes critical funding and priorities for the U.S. military. The bill now goes to the President, who recently threatened to veto the legislation. Allen called on the President to abandon his veto threat and instead sign the legislation to support our troops. Excerpts and video of his remarks can be found below. https://youtu.be/DmTP1z9m6b0 “Mr. Speaker, I come to the floor today to commend my colleagues in the House and Senate for passing the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 and to call on the President to sign this vital bill into law. “It is the constitutional responsibility of Congress to provide for the common defense. “Right now, our nation faces growing and very serious threats. “Unrest continues to escalate in the Middle East, and our troops are fighting terrorism around the world. “Yet, the President has threatened to veto this legislation providing our men and women in uniform with the resources they need to defend themselves and America’s national security at home and abroad. “The President’s veto threat is dangerously irresponsible. “We must fulfill our duty to support our troops and their families who sacrifice so much to protect our nation. “Congress has acted in a bipartisan fashion to pass this legislation, equip our military, and bolster national defense. “Instead of putting our national security at risk, the President should sign this bill into law, so we can keep our military strong and Americans safe.”
09.18.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today supported two pieces of legislation to protect innocent life. H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, of which Allen is a cosponsor, puts a moratorium on all federal funding to Planned Parenthood and its affiliates for one year as Congress moves forward with a thorough investigation into the organization and its horrific practices. In addition, Allen supported passage of H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which strengthens protections for babies who survive abortion. Allen applauded passage of these bills in the House and released the following statement: “As a parent and grandparent, the practices described in the Planned Parenthood videos are unconscionable. We have a moral responsibility to act to investigate this organization’s horrific actions and hold all those involved accountable. The Defund Planned Parenthood Act will ensure taxpayers are not forced to support the organization’s appalling practices and allow funding to go towards the many other deserving organizations that provide women’s health services. Three House committees are using every means possible to conduct a full investigation into Planned Parenthood. As these efforts continue, I believe it’s critical we strengthen current laws to protect innocent lives from these despicable acts. These two bills are an important part of the ongoing fight to enforce the law and defend the sanctity of life.” Congressman Allen has been outspoken about his support of Congressional investigation into Planned Parenthood and withdrawing federal funding to the organization. He also questioned Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell on whether the department would investigate the organization’s activities, yet she refused to provide a commitment. Video of his questioning can be viewed HERE.
09.16.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) is currently accepting applications from young Georgians across the 12th district for nominations from his office to attend a United States Service Academy. As a member of Congress, Allen has the opportunity to nominate a limited number of constituents who meet the eligibility requirements to attend the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy, or U.S. Merchant Marine Academy. “It is a privilege to be able to nominate outstanding young people from Georgia’s 12th district to attend our nation’s military service academies,” said Congressman Allen. “These institutions offer those interested in serving our country a first class education and unique opportunities for students to gain knowledge, tools and leadership skills that prepare them both for military and civilian life.” The honor of attending a service academy comes with an obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. To be eligible, the applicant must be 17 years of age as of July 1, in the year of admission to a service academy. The applicant must not have passed his or her 23rd birthday. The applicant must also be a United States citizen, unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation to support children or other dependents. All applications for a nomination through Rep. Allen’s Augusta office are due by 5:00pm on Friday, October 9, 2015. Please note no applications received after the deadline will be considered and no exceptions can be made. Service academy nomination applications can be downloaded HERE. The application along with additional information about the service academies, application and nomination process are available on Congressman Allen’s website at /constituent-services/military-academy-nominations.htm. Applications should be sent to Congressman Allen’s Augusta office at the following address: Congressman Rick Allen ATTN: Paul Lynch, Military Liaison 2743 Perimeter Parkway Bldg. 200, Suite 225 Augusta, Ga 30909 (912) 243-9452 Office (912) 243-9453 Fax The Military Service Academy Board that Congressman Allen appointed will review all applications and select candidates that will be invited to an in-person interview. This invitation will be made in late October for a November interview date. The nomination decisions will be made and announced before the end of the calendar year. Service academies will extend offers of appointments through May of the application year. For any questions, please contact Congressman Allen’s Service Academy Coordinator Paul Lynch at paul.lynch@mail.house.gov or (912) 243-9453.
09.11.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today acted again to stop the President’s disastrous nuclear deal with Iran. Allen voted with his colleagues in the House to reject legislation approving the Iran nuclear agreement and also supported separate legislation, H.R. 3460, to suspend until January 21, 2017, the President’s ability to move forward with any removal of sanctions outlined in the deal. Allen issued the following statement: “The more the American people find out about this terrible deal, the more they are against it. The President’s dangerous agreement gives Iran a clear path to a nuclear weapon within a matter of years, and in the meantime, Iran will have access to billions of dollars to promote terrorism and endanger our nation, Israel and the world. What’s more, details of secret side deals Iran has made still have not been provided to Congress. I cannot support any agreement that puts the security of Americans and our allies at risk and emboldens the Iranian regime. Iran has proven over and over they cannot be trusted, and we should not be lifting sanctions, our biggest source of leverage to hold Iran accountable. That is why I voted to reject this agreement, prevent the President from moving forward with sanctions relief, and will continue to fight to stop this bad deal.” Click HERE to read more about Congressman Allen’s efforts to stop the Iran deal this week and watch his remarks on the House floor opposing the Iran deal HERE.
09.10.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today continued his work to stop President Obama’s dangerous nuclear deal with Iran by supporting House passage of H. Res. 411. This legislation states President Obama has not complied with the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015, passed by Congress and signed by the President this year, requiring the President to submit to Congress the text of any potential agreement and all related materials prior to a 60-day Congressional review period. Last month, news reports surfaced revealing side agreements between Iran and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). One of these side deals reportedly allows Iran to use its own inspectors to investigate a site of suspected nuclear activities. To date, the President has not provided information about these side deals to Congress. H. Res. 411 establishes that Congress must be provided with all agreement materials for the 60-day Congressional review period to begin, as required by federal law. Congressman Allen supported the measure and released the following statement: “From the start, it has been clear Iran is not a trustworthy negotiator, and the secret arrangements between Iran and the IAEA are one of the many reasons this agreement is a disastrous and dangerous deal. I supported the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act to ensure Congress would have the opportunity to fully review this deal and vote on it. The American people deserve to know all the facts about this agreement, and the President has not produced them. I am committed to using every tool to keep this bad deal from moving forward and will continue to fight to stop it.” Tomorrow, the House is also expected to vote both on the Iran agreement directly and on legislation that would suspend the President’s ability to lift sanctions imposed on Iran. Allen spoke on the House floor today calling on Congress to stop the President’s deal and stressing the agreement’s serious consequences for our nation, Israel, and international security. Watch his remarks HERE.
08.13.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) invites constituents in the Appling County area to join him for “Coffee with the Congressman” on Monday, August 24, at 10:00am in Baxley, Ga. This event provides an opportunity for constituents to speak personally with Congressman Allen and ask questions regarding issues at the federal level and legislation before Congress. “Hearing from Georgians in the 12th district is the most important part of my job. I hope constituents in Appling County will join me to share what is on their minds and the issues facing families, individuals and businesses in the community,” said Congressman Allen. WHAT: Coffee with Congressman Rick Allen WHEN: Monday, August 24, 2015 10:00 a.m. – 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Sarah’s in the City 1686 Golden Isle W Baxley, GA 31513
08.13.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced an open house and ribbon cutting at his district office in Dublin, Ga. The office is currently open to assist Georgians in the 12th district, and Congressman Allen looks forward to visiting with constituents at the open house event on Friday, August 28, at 11:00am. “Constituent service is a top priority of mine, and my staff and I stand ready to serve the great people of Georgia’s 12th district. I encourage anyone who may need assistance with a federal agency or would like to share their views on important issues or legislation to contact my Dublin office. I look forward to seeing folks in the district at the Dublin office open house on August 28,” said Congressman Allen. The general public is welcome to visit the office any time during the open house event and speak personally with Congressman Allen and members of his staff. Contact information for the Dublin office and details for the ribbon cutting and open house are below. DUBLIN DISTRICT OFFICE 101 N. Jefferson St. Dublin, GA 31021 Phone: (478) 272-4030 Fax: (478) 277-0113 DUBLIN OFFICE OPEN HOUSE EVENT Friday, August 28, 2015 Ribbon Cutting at 11:00am on the Laurens County Courthouse Steps Open House to Follow at the Laurens County Commissioners Boardroom until 11:45am Full contact information for Congressman Allen’s offices in Washington, D.C., and the 12th district are available on his website HERE.
08.13.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) invites constituents in the Effingham County area to join him for “Coffee with the Congressman” on Wednesday, August 26, at 9:30am in Springfield, Ga. This event provides an opportunity for constituents to speak personally with Congressman Allen and ask questions regarding issues at the federal level and legislation before Congress. “Hearing from Georgians in the 12th district is the most important part of my job. I hope constituents in Effingham County will join me to share what is on their minds and the issues facing families, individuals and businesses in the community,” said Congressman Allen. WHAT: Coffee with Congressman Rick Allen WHEN: Wednesday, August 26, 2015 9:30 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. WHERE: Effingham County Chamber of Commerce 520 W. Third Street Springfield, GA 31329
08.08.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced he will soon depart on an educational trip to Israel with a bipartisan group of colleagues in the House of Representatives. The trip includes a rigorous schedule of valuable opportunities for members to meet with top Israeli and Palestinian leaders, learn more about the U.S.-Israel partnership, and be briefed on important security and economic issues impacting the country and region. This working trip will allow Allen to gain firsthand knowledge and hear directly from top officials on critical foreign policy issues, including the Iran nuclear agreement Congress will be voting on in the coming weeks. The trip is also expected to explore issues related to security, technology, defense, and agriculture, and the role of the U.S.-Israel relationship in each of these areas. “I look forward to this opportunity to visit Israel and gain an even deeper understanding of the partnership the United States shares with our great ally,” said Congressman Allen. “I am particularly eager to learn more about security threats in the region and hear from Israel’s leaders about the Iran nuclear deal and the danger it poses to international security. At such a critical time, this trip will provide greater insight into the vital role of the U.S.-Israel relationship and the challenges before us.” Allen is a cosponsor of H. Res. 367, a resolution expressing the House’s disapproval of the Iran nuclear agreement. He has also expressed his concerns with the Iran deal on the House floor; his remarks can be viewed HERE. The trip is sponsored by the American Israel Education Foundation (AIEF) and is privately funded at no expense to U.S. taxpayers. For security purposes, a specific itinerary and details of the trip currently remain classified.
08.04.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today issued the following statement on the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) finalized “Clean Power Plan” rule: “EPA’s new energy regulations are yet another example of regulatory overreach by the Obama Administration that undermines the rights of states, raises energy costs for families and businesses, and damages our economy. The Administration’s national energy tax will result in higher electricity bills in Georgia while failing to make any meaningful impact on reducing global emissions. In June, the House passed reasonable legislation allowing states to opt out of the Administration’s federally mandated plan if it adversely impacts electricity reliability or ratepayers. I will continue to fight this power grab and work to protect consumers, families and businesses in Georgia from more ineffective, overreaching regulations that hurt our state and the economy.” More information on the bipartisan Ratepayer Protection Act approved by the House on June 24, 2015, is available HERE. Congressman Allen has supported several pieces of legislation to fight executive overreach, including the REINS Act passed by the House last week which would require new major regulations with an impact of $100 million or more to be submitted to Congress for approval.
07.29.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today applauded House passage of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive In Need Of Scrutiny (REINS) Act, which provides regulatory relief to American families and job creators while restoring congressional accountability to the regulatory process. In 2014 alone, 3,554 new federal regulations were imposed on American businesses, costing an estimated $1.9 trillion. The REINS Act would limit unnecessary major regulations from executive agencies by requiring new rules with an impact of $100 million or more to be submitted to Congress for approval. Congress must take action on proposed regulations within 70 legislative days with an up-or-down vote in both the House and the Senate. Allen is a cosponsor of the legislation, which the House passed yesterday evening, and issued the following statement: “As a small business owner for more than 30 years, I know firsthand the unnecessary burdens federal overregulation places on our nation’s job creators. All too often, new regulations are issued by unaccountable federal agencies without regard for the significant costs they pass on to hardworking Americans. The result is a mountain of red tape weighing down our economy, slowing innovation, and holding back job creation. The REINS Act brings much-needed commonsense and accountability back to the regulatory process. This legislation will fight against executive overreach burdening taxpayers, households, and businesses in Georgia’s 12th district, and it will ensure the American people have a say in regulations impacting them.” Allen spoke on the House floor today to commend his colleagues for passing the REINS Act and called on the Senate to quickly take up the legislation. Click HERE to view his remarks.
07.29.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act of 2015, which gives the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) greater authority to remove or demote VA employees based on misconduct or poor performance. Allen cosponsored the legislation and issued the following statement: “It has been more than a year since the scandal at the VA revealing the level of dysfunction and mismanagement, and today, far too many VA employees who have failed our veterans still have not been held accountable. In order to effectively reform the VA, there needs to be a culture of accountability. This legislation will give the VA Secretary authority to fire any employee for wrongdoing or incompetency. Our nation’s heroes deserve the best treatment possible, and this bill will help remove VA employees hurting our veterans and promote a system of accountability.” For more information on H.R. 1994 and legislative text, click HERE.
07.28.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12), member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, today questioned Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Sylvia Burwell on whether the department would investigate the horrific practices of Planned Parenthood brought to light in several recent videos. When asked by Allen whether HHS, which provides federal funding to Planned Parenthood, intends to investigate the organization’s disturbing practices, Burwell declined to provide a commitment that the department would take action to look into the allegations and referred the matter to the Department of Justice. Video of Congressman Allen’s questioning can be viewed HERE. Excerpts can also be found below. Rep. Rick Allen (R-GA): “I would like some commitment from you here today on when your department will conduct an investigation on this very, very serious matter…Can you tell me when we're going to do something about that?” Sec. Burwell: “This is an important issue and one that there is passionate and emotion and belief on many sides of the issue and want to respect that … With regard to investigating or looking into those issues, as I said, because it is a statutory legal issue, the Department of Justice and the Attorney General has said she has taken those issues under review and will determine what the appropriate next step is.” Allen recently supported congressional investigation of Planned Parenthood on the House floor and in a letter to House committee leaders. He is also a cosponsor of H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act, to withdraw all federal funding to the organization.
07.22.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) this week joined 126 of his colleagues in sending a letter to express support for the efforts of two House committees that have launched investigations into the allegations surrounding Planned Parenthood possibly selling the body parts of unborn children. The letter, written to Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee Fred Upton, and Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Bob Goodlatte, points to the recent videos that surfaced featuring top Planned Parenthood officials, condemns the alleged practices and urges swift action to look into the activities of all parties involved. The letter can be read in full HERE and reads in part: “[We] are deeply disturbed by new allegations that Planned Parenthood abortion clinics not only profit from the intentional destruction of unborn children, but also sell children’s organs piece by piece to fetal tissue brokers. These actions are unconscionable and these horrific abuses must be stopped.” The letter continues, “These revelations give good reason for Congress to take a serious look at the practices of Planned Parenthood and the companies that buy and sell the body parts and organs of unborn children who are dismembered in Planned Parenthood clinics.” Congressman Allen also spoke on the House floor yesterday evening, saying he would work with his colleagues to get to the bottom of these allegations and hold those responsible accountable. Click here to view his remarks. Excerpts can also be found below. “The practices brought to light in these videos and reports are shocking and sickening. “When such reports come forward, it is our moral responsibility to act. We must take action on behalf of the most vulnerable and precious lives among us. “I commend the House Energy and Commerce and House Judiciary committees who have begun efforts to investigate these heinous practices, and I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure we get to the bottom of these allegations. “Planned Parenthood – and all those involved – must be held accountable.”
07.10.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today supported bipartisan legislation to promote health care innovation and accelerate the development and delivery of cures to fight thousands of diseases impacting millions of Americans. The 21st Century Cures Act, H.R. 6, updates the medical innovation infrastructure, cuts red tape by streamlining the regulatory process, and supports advancements in personalized medicine and future research. Congressman Allen applauded the bill’s passage in the House with a bipartisan vote of 344-77 and released the following statement: “Breakthroughs in technology and science continue to transform medical innovation, and we need policies that promote a 21st century approach to health care. Currently, there are 10,000 known diseases, yet we only have treatments for 500 of them. The 21st Century Cures Act will help the medical community in their efforts not only to develop but deliver lifesaving treatments. By cutting red tape and modernizing health care, this legislation can help improve the lives of individuals and families while supporting jobs in the 12th district and nationwide.” Congressman Allen spoke on the House floor today in support of the legislation and shared the story of a constituent from Evans, Ga., who is affected by autism and faces obstacles receiving medication caught up in bureaucratic red tape. Congressman Allen stressed that the 21st Century Cures Act will improve access to treatments that help patients, their families, and future generations. You can watch the video HERE. More information on the 21st Century Cures Act is available on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s website HERE. Legislative text can also be found HERE.
07.08.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today released the following statement after Dr. Brooks Keel was named the new president of Georgia Regents University (GRU): “I congratulate Dr. Brooks Keel on being selected as President of Georgia Regents University. He has served as a dedicated leader as president of Georgia Southern University, and I look forward to seeing him continue his great work in higher education through this new role at GRU. As a graduate of Augusta College and the Medical College of Georgia, President Keel is well-suited to build upon GRU’s ongoing growth and the unique opportunities the university has long created for students, faculty and the Augusta community.”
07.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12), member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, today supported the Student Success Act (H.R. 5), legislation to replace No Child Left Behind, restore local control of education, and expand opportunities in K-12 schools. The legislation was passed by the House, and Congressman Allen released the following statement: “Current federal mandates and one-size-fits-all accountability standards are holding back teachers and limiting opportunities for students. No one knows the individual needs of students better than the parents, teachers, and local education leaders who spend time with them every day. That’s why students are best served when education reforms are developed at the state and local level, not by federal bureaucrats in Washington.” Congressman Allen continued, “While not perfect, the Student Success Act is a strong step forward in restoring local control and putting education back in the right hands. The bill implements bottom-up reforms that promote innovation at the local level and stop top-down education mandates. It allows states to create their own systems to assess school performance and empowers parents and local education leaders with information to hold schools accountable. We all agree that every child deserves access to a quality education. The Student Success Act will create more opportunities for students by returning responsibility to the parents, teachers and education leaders who know them best.” Congressman Allen spoke on the House floor today on how the Student Success Act will strengthen K-12 schools. You can watch the video HERE. Text of the Student Success Act can be found HERE. The legislation: · Replaces the current national accountability system with a system led by states to give responsibility for measuring school performance back to states and school districts. · Prevents the Secretary of Education from coercing states into adopting programs like Common Core, as well as other common standards. · Empowers parents with information to hold schools accountable for effectively teaching while expanding school choice options. · Eliminates nearly 70 unnecessary programs and replaces them with a Local Academic Flexible Grant, providing more flexibility for states to meet the needs of their students.
06.25.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) issued the following statement on the Supreme Court ruling in King v. Burwell and renewed his call to repeal and replace ObamaCare with patient-centered reforms: “While the Supreme Court’s ruling upholds the law’s subsidies, it does not affirm ObamaCare as the right health care solution for the American people. The fact remains that ObamaCare has made health care more expensive and continues to hurt families, individuals and businesses in Georgia and across the country. Over the last five years, millions of patients have seen their premiums increase and have lost the plans and doctors they were promised they could keep. Small businesses have been forced to cut back on hiring, while hardworking employees have seen their hours and paychecks cut. “Health care solutions should empower patients and families – not Washington – and give them the freedom to choose a plan that meets their needs. I’ve cosponsored legislation the House has passed to repeal ObamaCare, as well as several bills to protect Americans from many of its harmful provisions. I’ve also signed onto plans offering free-market alternatives that put patients and doctors back in charge of health care decisions with more flexibility and choices. I will continue to fight at every opportunity for better health care solutions by repealing and replacing ObamaCare with patient-centered reforms.”
06.23.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today applauded House passage of H.R. 1190, the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act. The legislation repeals the Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) established under ObamaCare. Allen is an original cosponsor of the legislation and issued the following statement: “The IPAB is yet another example of how ObamaCare is flawed. By giving a board of unelected bureaucrats the authority to make significant changes to Medicare, the law gives seniors less control over their health care decisions and jeopardizes their access to care. I will continue to support any effort to fight bureaucratic overreach and remove the burdens of ObamaCare on families, individuals and businesses. Repealing IPAB represents another step to protect Americans from the consequences of this broken law.” IPAB is an unelected panel of 15 political appointees given substantial authority under ObamaCare to reduce the growth of Medicare spending. The Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act repeals IPAB to ensure such critical decisions aren’t made by unelected bureaucrats without proper accountability to the American people and Congress.
06.18.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today applauded passage of H.R. 160, the Protect Medical Innovation Act, which eliminates ObamaCare’s 2.3% excise tax on the sale of medical devices. Allen is an original cosponsor of the legislation, which was passed with a bipartisan vote of 280-140, and released the following statement: “As the fight continues for full repeal of ObamaCare, the medical device tax is an area of this law both sides of the aisle agree needs to go. It destroys jobs and holds back innovation of technology that helps patients and can even save lives. America leads the world in medical device innovation. We should be supporting growth in this industry that provides good-paying jobs and lifesaving products such as ventilators and pacemakers, not hitting it with unnecessary tax burdens. Repealing the medical device tax will provide relief for job creators and eliminate one more area of this law holding back our economy and hurting patients’ access to care.” More than 8,000 medical device firms throughout the United States employ more than 400,000 Americans nationwide. Since taking effect in 2013, the medical device tax has cost more than 33,000 jobs and is expected to eliminate thousands more.
06.10.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today released the following statement after U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson announced he has been diagnosed with the early stages of Parkinson’s disease: “Throughout his time in Congress and the time I have known him, Johnny Isakson has always been one of the hardest working public servants in Washington who devotes his all to representing the people of Georgia. He has my utmost respect and support as he bravely confronts this challenge, and I remain grateful for his strong leadership in the Senate and our state’s delegation as he continues to fight every day on behalf of Georgians.”
06.02.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced he has introduced the Better Agriculture Resources Now (BARN) Act, H.R. 2588, bipartisan legislation to improve efficiency of the H-2A visa program. The H-2A program allows agriculture employers to hire non-immigrant workers for temporary labor. However, bureaucratic red tape that has frequently stalled or prevented efforts by employers to apply for and hire H-2A workers has made the program difficult for farmers in Georgia and across the country. The BARN Act addresses these shortcomings by shifting responsibility for H-2A certification from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and implementing reforms to streamline the program and give farmers more certainty. “The H-2A program provides workers that many farmers in Georgia and across the nation rely on. However, the program’s current structure is preventing the H-2A program from working as intended,” said Congressman Allen. “For too long, the Department of Labor has ignored or needlessly delayed H-2A applications from farmers and not understood the timely manner in which crops must be planted or harvested. The BARN Act transfers responsibility for H-2A certification to the Department of Agriculture, which is better suited to meet the needs of farmers and their operations in a time-sensitive fashion. The bill also offers reasonable reforms to address areas of the program that have failed farmers and strengthen accountability of H-2A workers and employers.” Similar legislation was previously introduced in the 112th Congress by former U.S. Rep. Jack Kingston and Rep. Lynn Westmoreland (Ga.-03), who is also an original cosponsor of Allen’s BARN Act. Congressman Allen stated, “I’m pleased to introduce this bipartisan legislation that continues and builds upon the reforms offered by Rep. Westmoreland and former Rep. Jack Kingston. The BARN Act will improve the H-2A program to better serve farmers and provide a more reliable labor supply for the agriculture industry.” Specifically, the BARN Act: · Transfers responsibility for certification of H-2A need from DOL to USDA to improve efficiency in the processing of requests. · Keeps jurisdiction over all immigration status issues at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS). · Lowers the maximum filing deadline for employers to request H-2A labor from 45 days to 30 days in order to accelerate the certification process. · Eliminates the 50% Rule, providing farmers greater certainty by allowing them to retain H-2A workers who have been employed on their operations for less than 50% of the duration of their visas. · Requires that wages of H-2A workers not exceed 115% of the minimum wage rate at the federal or state level (whichever is higher). · Requires non-immigrant workers to return to their home country after their H-2A status has expired or face penalties from DHS, unless USDA grants the worker an extension. · Sets clear housing requirements for H-2A workers. · Responsibly changes necessary grounds for claims filed by Legal Services Corporation to reduce burdens on H-2A employers caused by frivolous lawsuits. · Includes strong reforms to combat H-2A overstays and fraud. · Prevents non-immigrant workers with previous criminal offenses from participating in the H-2A program, while holding employers responsible for adhering to H-2A hiring requirements as well. Legislative text for the BARN Act can be found HERE. In addition to Rep. Westmoreland, original cosponsors of the bill include U.S. Reps. Sanford Bishop (Ga.-02), Mike Bost (Ill.-12), Ken Buck (Colo.-04), Kevin Cramer (N.D.-AL), Doug LaMalfa (Calif.-01), Luke Messer (Ind.-06), Tom Rice (S.C.-07), and Joe Wilson (S.C.-02). The BARN Act is also supported by the Georgia Farm Bureau. Zippy Duvall, Georgia Farm Bureau president, commended Congressman Allen’s introduction of the legislation: “If BARN were to pass in its current form, the H-2A program would be much improved,” said Duvall. “We believe better H-2A rules would allow more farmers to utilize the program. BARN is clearly a step in the right direction.”
05.27.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers released its final “waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule. The rule significantly expands the federal government’s authority under the Clean Water Act to regulate state and local waters. “The Obama Administration’s new rule is a direct effort to expand the federal government’s control over our nation’s waters. This overreach undermines the rights of states, local governments and landowners, while creating costly bureaucratic red tape that hurts economic growth and jobs, particularly in the agriculture industry. The House has already passed legislation I cosponsored to stop the rule from taking effect. This legislation would also require the federal agencies to develop a new proposal in consultation with states, local officials and stakeholders, which should have been done in the first place. Instead, the Administration chose to ignore their input and the public’s. I will continue to work in Congress to voice their concerns, fight against this overreach, and protect the role of states and citizens in managing their water resources.” Allen is a cosponsor of The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which the House passed earlier this month and is now awaiting action in the Senate. The legislation allows the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers 30 days to withdraw the WOTUS rule. It also directs the agencies to create a revised rule under a more transparent process that includes input from states, local officials and affected stakeholders. Congressman Allen recently spoke on the House floor against the Administration’s attempted overreach in proposing its WOTUS rule and urged his colleagues to pass The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act. Video of his remarks is available HERE.
05.15.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016. The NDAA is annual legislation which authorizes defense spending and sets priorities for the U.S. military. Congressman Allen issued the following statement after the House passed the legislation earlier today: “Today the House acted to carry out Congress’ first constitutional responsibility of providing for the common defense by approving this year’s National Defense Authorization Act. It was an honor to cast my first vote in favor of this legislation to support our brave service members around the world. “This NDAA provides resources for our troops at the levels outlined in Congress’ balanced budget plan to ensure taxpayer dollars are used wisely and effectively. It reaffirms our commitment to supporting our men and women in uniform by enhancing pay and benefits for our service members and their families. “As America continues to fight terrorism around the world, we must remain vigilant against a wide array of threats. This bill equips our military with critical resources to defeat ISIL and enforces stronger oversight and restrictions on the detainment and transfer of terrorists. In addition, this legislation recognizes the importance of a strong cyber defense by approving all U.S. Cyber Command and Military Service programs. “I was also pleased this NDAA provides full funding for construction at Fort Gordon that was requested by the Army. With recent growth and the future addition of Cyber Command Headquarters in Augusta, ensuring Fort Gordon has the infrastructure support it needs is a top priority. “This NDAA will help keep our military strong and Americans safe. Americans deserve to feel secure in their homes. This bill supports our military to bolster national defense at home and abroad. I hope the Senate and President will act quickly to approve this legislation which is vital to our troops and national security.” Specifically, the FY 2016 NDAA will support Fort Gordon and its missions by: · Providing full funding in the President’s budget request for cyber for the Army, as well as the other Military Service programs and CYBERCOM. · Providing an additional $25 million for the defense-wide deployment of cyber defense tools, which will support Army cyber defenders, as well as other service cyber defenders. · Providing liability protection for companies reporting network cyber intrusions, which will provide valuable intelligence to support Army and Department of Defense network defenders.
05.13.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today supported H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which would prohibit abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy. Research shows this is the point at which unborn children are capable of feeling pain. Allen, a cosponsor of the measure, released the following statement after the legislation passed the House: “We have a responsibility to defend innocent lives of the most vulnerable, and that’s exactly what the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act does. This bill protects unborn children from abortion after five months, the point at which they have the ability to experience pain. I will always fight for the right to life and am grateful the House approved this bill to stop painful late-term abortions, save lives, and give a voice to those who cannot speak for themselves.” According to multiple public polls, including surveys conducted by Quinnipiac, Washington Post, and Huffington Post, a majority of Americans support a ban on abortions after 20 weeks.
05.12.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today applauded passage of The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act (H.R. 1732) in the House. Allen is a cosponsor of the legislation, which would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Army Corps of Engineers’ proposed “Waters of the United States” (WOTUS) rule from taking effect. If finalized, the WOTUS rule would significantly expand the federal government’s authority to regulate state and local waters. “The Administration’s flawed WOTUS rule would give the federal government regulatory authority over virtually any place where water flows in the United States. If not stopped, this federal overreach will undermine the rights of states, local governments and landowners, while creating costly bureaucratic red tape that hurts economic growth and jobs. The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act stops this expansion of federal authority and requires a new rule to be proposed in consultation with states, local officials and stakeholders. I am pleased the House acted to pass this important legislation and protect the role of states and citizens in managing their water resources.” Earlier today, Congressman Allen spoke on the House floor to stress the consequences of the WOTUS rule, including its negative impacts on the agriculture and business communities. To watch his remarks click HERE. The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act allows the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers 30 days to withdraw its proposed WOTUS rule. The legislation also directs the agencies to create a revised rule under a more transparent process that includes input from states, local officials and affected stakeholders. WOTUS Background: In April 2014, the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers proposed a rule redefining “waters of the United States” under the Clean Water Act (CWA). The rule would significantly broaden the definition to extend the federal government’s regulatory authority over nearly all bodies of water, including creeks, streams, and groundwater as well as drainage ditches, irrigation pipes and farmland ponds. The Administration failed to properly consult state and local governments in developing its rule, which undermines the federal-state partnership Congress intended to establish under the Clean Water Act.
04.30.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement after the House passed the Conference Report to S. Con. Res. 11, the budget agreement reached by the House and the Senate for Fiscal Year 2016: “For the first time since 2001, the House and Senate have come together to put forth a budget that balances within 10 years, and it does so without raising taxes. While there is still much work ahead, this agreement represents a meaningful first step towards restoring fiscal responsibility in Washington. I came to Congress to advance policies that grow our economy and empower all Americans with more opportunities. This budget makes real progress towards achieving these goals by reining in government spending and cutting waste to promote economic growth. “Families and businesses across Georgia’s 12th district sit down and balance their budgets – and rightfully expect the federal government to do the same. This plan sets needed priorities for Washington and makes our government more efficient and accountable to the American people. With this new direction, I look forward to continuing to fight for solutions that put our country back on track and create a better future for our children and grandchildren.” According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, the FY 2016 Congressional budget resolution will generate $400 billion in additional economic growth and create 1.2 million additional jobs over the next 10 years. The agreement, which achieves $5 trillion in savings, creates more opportunities for Americans by: · Balancing the budget in less than 10 years with no tax increases to grow the economy and protect economic opportunity for future generations. · Repealing ObamaCare, along with its burdensome mandates and tax increases, and allowing Congress to replace it with patient-centered reforms that make health care more affordable and expand patient choice. · Simplifying the tax code to eliminate burdens on hardworking families and job creators. · Providing a strong national defense with immediate increases in funding for the military to ensure needed resources for our men and women in uniform. · Preserving Medicare and protecting seniors’ access to health care by extending the life of the Medicare Hospital Insurance Trust Fund. · Cutting government waste and promoting regulatory reform to save taxpayer dollars and improve efficiency and accountability of the federal government. · Calling on Congress to pass a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution, which will help forge a more fiscally responsible path forward (Click HERE to see Congressman Allen’s previous efforts to support a balanced budget amendment). Legislative text of the FY 2016 Budget Conference Report can be found HERE.
04.16.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today praised passage of H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015, in the House of Representatives. The legislation permanently repeals the unpopular estate tax, also known as the “death tax.” Allen was a cosponsor of the measure and released the following statement upon the bill’s passage: “The death tax is one of the top concerns I hear from family farmers and small business owners in the 12th district. It wrongly punishes people who have spent years working to grow and maintain a business or a farm and want to pass that business on to the next generation. Not only have many family businesses been forced to close altogether as a result of this incredibly high tax rate, but the costs and resources associated with planning for the death tax have prevented growth and investment and caused business owners to cut back on hiring. Death should not be a taxable event, and by repealing the unfair death tax, we can protect the American dream for hardworking families and remove one more tax burden hurting our economy. I hope the Senate will quickly pass this legislation so we can eliminate the death tax once and for all.” The Death Tax Repeal Act of 2015: · Fully repeals the estate tax and generation-skipping transfer taxes for all future transfers, allowing families to keep their lands and businesses. · Permanently lowers the maximum gift tax rate from 40% to 35%. The estate tax is a 40% tax on an individual’s transfer of an estate, often a small business or family farm, to the next generation at the time of his or her death.
03.25.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today issued the following statement after voting in favor of the House-passed FY2016 budget resolution, H. Con. Res. 27, which balances in less than 10 years, includes meaningful spending cuts, and promotes greater economic opportunity for hardworking Americans and future generations. “I believe a balanced budget is the first step towards restoring fiscal responsibility in Washington and putting our country on the right track. That’s why one of my first acts in Congress was to cosponsor a balanced budget amendment to our Constitution, and that’s why I supported the House Republican budget resolution today. This budget plan takes action to rein in government spending and address our nation’s unacceptable debt crisis. Unlike the President’s budget, which never balances despite $2 trillion in tax increases, this plan will balance the budget in less than 10 years without a single tax increase. “The House budget eases burdens on American families and businesses by fully repealing ObamaCare and promoting a simpler, fairer tax code. I’m also pleased by provisions in this budget that bolster defense spending to train and equip our men and women in uniform and protect our national defense. “I thank House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price for his leadership on this plan to help hardworking Americans today and strengthen our economy for the future. With the great economic challenges our country faces, it’s imperative we make the difficult budgetary decisions now to ensure opportunity for our children and grandchildren. This budget moves our country in the right direction and builds a stronger economy that empowers the American people rather than Washington, D.C.” The House FY2016 Budget Resolution includes key provisions to: · Balance the budget in less than 10 years without raising taxes · Cut $5.5 trillion in government spending – the most significant spending reduction included in a House Budget Committee proposal · Promote a simpler, fairer tax code to foster economic growth and job creation · Call on Congress to pass a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution (Click HERE to see Congressman Allen’s previous efforts to support a balanced budget amendment) · Fully repeal Obamacare, along with its burdensome mandates and tax increases, and start over with patient-centered reforms that make health care more affordable and expand patient choice · Increase defense spending above the President’s proposed levels to provide the military with needed training and resources to fulfill its missions · Preserve and improve Medicare through structural reforms · Give greater authority and flexibility to states over critical programs, including Medicaid, nutrition assistance and education programs
03.20.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced the opportunity for young Georgians in the 12th Congressional District to participate in the 2015 Congressional Art Competition. The competition is open to high school students, grades 9-12, who live or attend school in the 12th District. The winner will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for a year, alongside other winning entries from across the country, and also be invited to attend a special ceremony in Washington, D.C. The first, second, and third runner up winner’s artwork will be showcased in Congressman Allen’s Washington, D.C. and district offices. In addition, there will be a “People’s Choice Award” winner, which constituents will choose by visiting Congressman Allen’s Facebook page and voting on submitted entries from April 27-May 1. The “People’s Choice Award” artwork will also be displayed in one of Congressman Allen’s offices. Congressman Allen will announce all winners on Sunday, May 3, 2015 at 3:00 PM at an awards ceremony and reception, which will take place at 600 Broad Street in Augusta Ga. “The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful opportunity to highlight the creativity and artistic talents of high school students in Georgia and across the country,” said Congressman Allen. “I look forward to seeing submissions from our young artists in the 12th district and encourage all interested high school students to take part in this special tradition.” Artwork submitted must be original in concept, design and execution and may not violate U.S. copyright laws. For more specific guidelines for competition entries, please visit Congressman Allen’s website HERE. Students may submit one piece of artwork for entry in the competition from April 20-22 at one of the following drop-off locations. Entries should have the student’s release form attached to the back of his or her artwork when submitted. · Congressman Allen’s District Office in Augusta: 2743 Perimeter Parkway, Bldg. 200, Suite 225, Augusta, GA, 30909 (9am-5pm) · Dublin High School: 1127 Hillcrest Parkway, Dublin GA 31021 · Appling County High School: 482 Blackshear Highway, Baxley, GA 31513 · Toombs County High School: 600 Bulldog Rd, Lyons, GA 30436 (front office) · Statesboro High School: 10 Lester Rd, Statesboro, GA 30458 (front office from 8am-3pm) · Emanuel County Institute: 102 S. College St, Twin City, GA 30471 For more information, constituents can call Congressman Allen’s office at (706) 228-1980.
03.19.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today applauded House passage of S.J. Res. 8 to stop the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) from enforcing its misguided “ambush election” rule, which is scheduled to go into effect April 14, 2015. The rule shortens the duration in which labor union elections are held, undercutting a fair election process for workers, employers and union members. “NLRB’s ambush election rule undermines the rights of both workers and employers and creates more challenges for businesses when our economy can least afford it,” said Congressman Allen. “Just as troubling, it is a threat to the privacy of workers and their families, as employers would be required to disclose the names, addresses, phone numbers and emails of employees to the NLRB and then the union. I’m pleased Congress has acted on this bicameral effort to protect fairness in the workplace and the rights of hardworking Americans and job creators.” The “ambush election” rule, which NLRB finalized in December, would shorten the length of time in which labor union certification elections are held from the current duration of 38 days to as little as 11 days. This change severely limits the time employers have to communicate with their employees about a union election and undermines employees’ ability to gather information and make an informed decision. The rule also jeopardizes employee privacy by requiring employers to disclose the personal information, including email addresses, work schedules, phone numbers, and home addresses, of workers and their families to union leaders. S.J. Res. 8 previously passed the Senate and will now go to the President. Congressman Allen also spoke on the House floor about the negative impact of this rule for businesses and their employees and urged his colleagues to support S.J. Res. 8. Watch video of his remarks HERE.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) this week voted for two pieces of legislation passed by the House that improve transparency in the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulatory process and strengthen opportunities for public input. The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015, H.R. 1029, which passed yesterday, would boost accountability at the panel responsible for evaluating the science behind EPA’s regulatory decisions. The legislation takes steps to restore independence of the Board and promote more public participation. Today, the House also passed H.R. 1030, the Secret Science Reform Act of 2015, which makes studies EPA uses to create new regulations available to independent scientists and the public. Congressman Allen stated upon voting in favor of these bills, “For too long, heavy-handed regulations from the EPA have placed enormous burdens on Georgia families and business owners, particularly in agriculture, our state’s top industry. What’s more, these regulations are often formed behind closed doors and without input from those subjected to their high costs and onerous compliance requirements. These bills passed by the House improve transparency at an agency facing a huge trust deficit by giving Americans a voice in EPA’s rulemaking and ensuring the science behind these rules is open and unbiased. We all want a healthy environment, and this legislation strengthens scientific integrity at the EPA while protecting Americans from misguided regulations.” Additional background information The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 1029): · The Science Advisory Board was established by Congress in the 1970s to evaluate the science behind EPA’s regulatory decisions and offer advice to Congress and the agency. · Yet, over the course of recent years, public participation and input from state and private sector experts during the Board’s meetings has been limited. Meanwhile, members of the panel have often voiced specific policy views, despite the fact that the Board was designed to provide impartial scientific advice. · H.R. 1029 would enhance transparency by strengthening public comment opportunities. It also takes steps to improve the make-up of the Board through peer review requirements and reducing conflicts of interest. The Secret Science Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 1030): · When proposing previous major and costly new regulations, the EPA has often used undisclosed research and studies. · H.R. 1030 simply prohibits EPA from introducing or enforcing rules based upon science and research that is not available to the public, which ensures independent scientists have the opportunity to examine EPA’s research and prevents the agency from forming new regulations based on secret data.
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today met with Commanding General of the U.S. Army Cyber Center of Excellence (Cyber CoE) at Fort Gordon, Major General Stephen Fogarty, and Command Sergeant Major Travis Cherry of the Cyber CoE. During their meeting on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., Maj. Gen. Fogarty, CSM Cherry, and Congressman Allen discussed ongoing missions at Cyber CoE and Fort Gordon’s critical role in protecting national defense. In addition, they spoke about recent and continued growth at Fort Gordon with the addition of U.S. Army Cyber Command Headquarters and the military installation’s positive impact in the community. Congressman Allen was also presented with the official seal of the Department of the Army by Major General Fogarty and Command Sergeant Major Cherry. The seal is traditionally presented by the U.S. Army to congratulate new members of Congress on their election to office. Congressman Allen stated, “I thank Major General Fogarty and Command Sergeant Major Cherry for their dedicated service to our nation and their leadership at Fort Gordon. Fort Gordon is an invaluable asset both to the Augusta community and the U.S. military, and it’s a tremendous honor to receive the Army’s official seal representing the values of the greatest military in the world and the men and women who serve bravely to protect our nation.” Photos of the meeting are below. Major General Stephen Fogarty (left) and Command Sergeant Major Travis Cherry (right) present Congressman Allen with the official seal of the Department of the Army on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. Congressman Allen meets with Major General Stephen Fogarty on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C.
03.03.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s joint address before Congress earlier today: “It was an honor to welcome Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to the House chamber and attend his joint address to Congress this morning. As our closest ally in the region, Israel and the United States have a longstanding partnership, and it was important to hear directly from Prime Minister Netanyahu about the unacceptable threat of a nuclear Iran. The Prime Minister’s address reinforced my firm belief that we must stand strongly with Israel at this critical time and work together to prevent Iran from continuing its dangerous efforts that threaten the safety of our nation, our allies, and the world.”
02.24.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) released the following statement after President Obama’s veto of bipartisan legislation approving the Keystone XL pipeline: “It’s extremely disappointing that the President turned his back on the opportunity to approve a shovel-ready infrastructure project that will grow jobs, help lower energy prices for families and businesses and strengthen America’s energy security. Congress approved this legislation with bipartisan support. Reports by the President’s own State Department have found that building the Keystone XL pipeline will create tens of thousands of jobs. Yet, the President chose to ignore these facts and instead look out for his own political interests by vetoing this commonsense jobs bill. Despite the President’s actions, this fight will continue, and hopefully we can work to move this project forward for the American people.”
02.20.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) on Wednesday toured Georgia Regents University (GRU) and spoke with faculty members about GRU’s cyber education program and future plans for university facilities. In addition to the GRU campus, Allen also visited Georgia Regents Medical Center’s Emergency Department and spoke with medical staff about initiatives they are implementing to strengthen emergency care and address challenges in rural health. Congressman Allen and GRU Provost Gretchen Caughman issued the following statements following the visit: “Augusta is fortunate to have a strong institution like Georgia Regents University in our community,” said Congressman Allen. “I was very impressed by the vision of GRU’s faculty members who are building excellent programs in important areas like cyber education that will contribute to our country’s national defense as well as our local economy with the addition of Cyber Command headquarters at Fort Gordon.” Congressman Allen continued, “I’m also grateful to the faculty and health care professionals of Georgia Regent’s medical arm who are training health care providers for the future as well as providing quality care to families and individuals. They are implementing exciting health initiatives to better serve patients and all communities, and I’m committed to ensuring these types of critical programs are developed at the local level rather than in Washington. GRU’s ongoing work in health care further shows that we need to return control from the federal government back to local communities and health care professionals, who understand the needs of patients and the medical community best.” “We are grateful to Congressman Allen for taking the time to learn more about the ways Georgia Regents University is rising to meet challenges of the future on issues as diverse as cyber security education and rural healthcare,” said GRU Provost Gretchen Caughman. “We look forward to continued dialogue with Congressman Allen in the future.” High resolution photos of Congressman Allen’s visit are available to view and download on his Flickr page by clicking HERE.
02.13.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced the opening of his district office in Augusta, Ga. The office is currently open to assist Georgians in the 12th district, and Congressman Allen looks forward to visiting with constituents at the grand opening event on Monday, March 9, from 5:00pm-6:00pm EST. “Constituent service is a top priority of mine, and I’m grateful to have an office in Augusta with dedicated staff who share my commitment to helping the people of Georgia’s 12th district. I encourage anyone who may need assistance with a federal agency or would like to share their views on important issues or legislation to contact me and my staff directly. We stand ready to serve, and I look forward to seeing folks in the district at the grand opening of the Augusta office,” said Congressman Allen. The general public is invited to visit the office any time during the grand opening event and speak personally with Congressman Allen and members of his staff. Contact information for the Augusta office and details for the grand opening are below. Any media wishing to attend the grand opening should RSVP to Virginia.Dent@mail.house.gov. AUGUSTA DISTRICT OFFICE 2743 Perimeter Parkway Bldg. 200, Suite 225 Augusta, GA 30909 Phone: (706) 228-1980 Fax: (706) 228-1954 AUGUSTA OFFICE GRAND OPENING Monday, March 9, 2015 5:00pm-6:00pm 2743 Perimeter Parkway Bldg. 200, Suite 225 Augusta, GA 30909 In addition to Augusta, Congressman Allen will soon be opening district offices in Dublin, Statesboro, and Vidalia. Constituents in Georgia’s 12th district can also contact Congressman Allen by calling his Washington, D.C., office at 202.225.2823, or sending him an email through his website HERE.
02.13.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today joined many House Republicans in writing Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) to demand that he and his Democrat colleagues allow debate on a critical bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security through Fiscal Year 2015 and defund President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. In their letter, they note that Senate Democrats have repeatedly obstructed even debating this bill in order to protect President Obama’s unconstitutional acts and shield Senate Democrats – many of whom have publicly stated that they oppose the President’s unilateral actions – from voting on the substance of the House-passed bill. Congressman Allen and his colleagues write, “It is utterly appalling that you and other Senate Democrats believe that protecting the President’s unconstitutional actions is more important than funding a Department tasked with keeping Americans safe. By preventing the Senate from taking up the House-passed bill, you are also denying the American people a fair debate on this issue. And a fair debate is what the American people want…” Full text of the letter to Senator Reid is below. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. Dear Minority Leader Reid, We write to express our strong concern that Senate Democrats are blocking debate on a critical bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security’s operations for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund unconstitutional programs created unilaterally by President Obama. Three times, you and other members of your caucus have prevented even a debate of the House-passed Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. While we understand that you and many of your Democrat colleagues are opposed to the provisions in the House-passed bill that would defund President Obama’s effective rewriting of our immigration laws, you should at least support debating the merits of such an important funding bill and offer amendments to the provisions you wish to change. By preventing the Senate from taking up the House-passed bill, you are also denying the American people a fair debate on this issue. And a fair debate is what the American people want – they fundamentally disagree with President Obama’s actions and believe that he has unlawfully acted alone. For example, a Washington Post/ABC News poll last month found that 57% of registered voters believe that President Obama’s grant of deferred action should be blocked. However, you have repeatedly obstructed even debating this bill in order to protect President Obama’s unconstitutional acts and shield Senators of your party – many of whom have publicly stated that they oppose the President’s unilateral actions – from voting on the substance of the House-passed bill. It is utterly appalling that you and other Senate Democrats believe that protecting the President’s unconstitutional actions is more important than funding a Department tasked with keeping Americans safe. By preventing the Senate from taking up the House-passed bill, you are also denying the American people a fair debate on this issue. And a fair debate is what the American people want – they fundamentally disagree with President Obama’s actions and believe that he has unlawfully acted alone. For example, a Washington Post/ABC News poll last month found that 57% of registered voters believe that President Obama’s grant of deferred action should be blocked. President Obama’s actions are tilting the scales of our government in the executive’s favor, threatening to unravel our system of checks and balances and imperiling all our liberties. The House of Representatives has acted decisively to defend the Constitution from this clear and present danger by voting to defund the president’s executive actions. For the sake of our nation, our two bodies must stand together on a bipartisan basis. But in order to do this, the Senate Democrat caucus must cease to play politics with the Constitution. You must end your filibuster of the House-passed bill and allow it to proceed to the floor for consideration. History will record our actions and how we honor the trust placed in all of us by the American people. Sincerely,
02.11.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today applauded action by the House to pass S.1, the Keystone XL Pipeline Approval Act. The legislation immediately authorizing construction and operation of the Keystone XL pipeline recently passed the Senate and will now be sent to the President, who has threatened to veto the measure. Congressman Allen released the following statement: “For more than six years, the Keystone XL pipeline has been stalled, and today Congress acted to approve this bipartisan infrastructure project for America’s economy and energy security. At a time when millions of Americans are struggling, the Keystone XL pipeline will create tens of thousands of jobs and help lower energy prices for families. In addition to the growth and billions in revenue it will spur for our economy, this project is critical to enhancing America’s energy resources and reducing our dependence on oil from the Middle East. This is a real opportunity for the President to work with Congress on a bipartisan solution that benefits Americans, boosts our economy and strengthens our energy independence. I hope he will reconsider his threat to veto this jobs bill when it comes to his desk and instead sign it into law so construction of the Keystone XL pipeline can finally begin.” Prior to the House’s passage of the bill, Congressman Allen spoke on the House floor about the numerous benefits of the Keystone XL pipeline. He also called on the President to reconsider his threat to veto legislation approving the project. Video of his remarks can be viewed HERE or by clicking the following link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RZeOgnBisYA&feature=youtu.be The Keystone XL pipeline would move 830,000 barrels of oil per day from the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, and U.S. crude from the Bakken oil fields being developed in North Dakota and Montana. The project is estimated to support approximately 42,000 jobs in the construction phase and yield $2 billion in earnings throughout the United States, while also reducing oil imports from the Middle East. The project has been under review for more than six years, with five favorable environmental reports by the U.S. State Department completed to date.
02.03.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) applauded action by the House today to pass legislation fully repealing ObamaCare. Allen was a cosponsor of the measure, H.R. 596, which the House approved with a vote of 239-186. The legislation fully repeals ObamaCare while also directing the chairmen of relevant committees in the House to craft alternative solutions to strengthen the nation’s health care system that foster growth, lower premiums and empower patients with more choices. Allen issued the following statement upon the bill’s passage: “From skyrocketing premiums to canceled health plans and lost access to their doctors, Georgians across the 12th district have felt the devastating effects of ObamaCare. Its burdens on small businesses continue to destroy jobs and have cut the hours and paychecks of millions of hardworking Americans. Simply put, ObamaCare is an unworkable law that is wrong for Americans and disastrous for our economy. I’m proud to act on behalf of my constituents who overwhelmingly oppose this law by supporting its full repeal. Importantly, the legislation passed by the House today allows Congress the opportunity to work on commonsense, patient-centered solutions to improve our health care system. We need reforms that truly lower the cost of care while enhancing competition and putting the American people back in charge of their health care decisions.”
01.28.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today announced his efforts to tackle several of his priorities for Georgians in the 12th district during his first month in office. Allen is cosponsoring legislation recently introduced to rein in federal spending, fully repeal ObamaCare and establish term limits for politicians in Congress. Balanced Budget Amendment: To curb wasteful government spending and address the national debt, Congressman Allen is cosponsoring H.J. Res. 2, a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution introduced by Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA-6). “As we work to get our country’s fiscal house in order, efforts to balance the federal budget should be the first place we start,” said Allen. “CBO’s projection this week that our national debt could surpass $27 trillion over the next decade was yet another reminder that we must take action to address Washington’s out-of-control spending and start budgeting responsibly. The federal government simply cannot continue to spend more than it takes in. Families across the country sit down and balance their budgets; it’s time for Washington to do the same and work seriously to reduce our currently dangerous level of national debt.” The measure would require the President to propose a balanced federal budget to Congress every year. It also provides that total spending by the government for any fiscal year cannot exceed total receipts unless approved by 3/5 of each chamber of Congress. Any increase in the debt limit must also be approved by a 3/5 vote. ObamaCare Repeal Act: As part of his continued efforts to repeal and replace ObamaCare, Congressman Allen is cosponsoring H.R. 132, the ObamaCare Repeal Act, introduced by Rep. Steve King (R-IA-4). “I promised my constituents I would fight to repeal ObamaCare, and I’m proud to cosponsor legislation to provide Americans relief from this unaffordable and unworkable law,” said Allen. “Higher health care costs and fewer care options resulting from ObamaCare continue to hurt hardworking families. Business owners have been forced to cut back on hiring and lower the hours and wages of employees because of the law’s costly mandates. ObamaCare is a law that is broken beyond repair, and I look forward to continuing the fight with my colleagues to repeal and replace it with what the American people deserve – real reforms that lower health care costs and expand access.” Constitutional Amendment For Congressional Term Limits: Honoring his pledge to institute term limits for politicians, Allen is cosponsoring a constitutional amendment, H.J.Res. 11 introduced by Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY-6), that would limit members of the House to six consecutive two-year terms and members of the Senate to two consecutive six-year terms. “I stand with the majority of Georgians in the 12th district who strongly support congressional term limits to hold politicians accountable,” said Allen. “The American people want to see change from the status quo in Washington, and term limits are a needed step to encourage elected leaders to prioritize the needs of their constituents over politics.”
01.20.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) tonight issued the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address. To watch video of Congressman Allen’s reaction click HERE or the image below. “I had hoped the President would use his State of the Union address to discuss how he would work with Congress on solutions that empower all Americans through more opportunities and a strong economy. Unfortunately, what we heard tonight were more of the same failed policies of the past that grow the size of government instead of growing our economy. The President's agenda of higher taxes to pay for more Washington spending is not the way to foster an environment that helps the middle class or creates jobs. Instead, we should focus on creating a simpler, fairer tax code that lifts burdens off hardworking taxpayers and business owners and encourages growth in the private sector. “I was also disappointed to hear the President propose more government regulations and increased spending. Working families already face a mountain of federal rules and mandates stifling job creation and increasing Washington’s control over their decisions on important issues like health care and education. Rather than expanding bureaucracy with more red tape and federal programs, we should be implementing proposals that expand opportunities for Americans by lowering their costs and increasing their choices. “Georgians in the 12th district sent me to Congress to solve these problems impacting them and get our country on the right track. The House has already passed a number of bipartisan bills this year that will put people back to work with good-paying jobs, build a stronger economy and limit the growing reach of the federal government. I will continue to work with my colleagues on these efforts and fight for legislation that empowers hardworking Americans while getting Washington out of the way. I hope the President will leave his ineffective policies of the last six years in the past and pursue areas where he can work with us on new, better solutions to move our country forward.” Follow Congressman Allen on Twitter and Facebook for more updates on how he’s working for Georgia’s 12th District in Congress.
01.14.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, H.R. 240. The legislation funds the Department of Homeland Security through the remainder of the current fiscal year and defunds President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in its entirety. The bill passed the House by a vote of 236-191 and will now go to the Senate. Congressman Allen released the following statement: “The President’s executive overreach violates our Constitution’s separation of powers and disregards the will of the American people who strongly oppose his efforts to act unilaterally on immigration,” said Congressman Allen. “A long-term solution to fix our immigration system will only be achieved if the President works with – not around – Congress on meaningful reforms. This bill sends a clear message that the President’s continued efforts to ignore our nation’s laws will not be tolerated. Importantly, it also takes necessary steps to strengthen border security, bolster immigration and law enforcement, and enhance oversight and transparency within the Department of Homeland Security. The legislation passed today helps protect America’s security in a fiscally responsible manner and prevents the President from bypassing Congress, the American people and our Constitution."
01.09.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted in favor of H.R. 3, legislation to immediately authorize construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. The House passed the measure with a bipartisan vote of 266-153, marking the 10th time the House has voted to approve the project. Upon voting in favor of the legislation, Congressman Allen released the following statement: “The Keystone XL pipeline is a shovel-ready project that will create tens of thousands of jobs, strengthen America’s energy security, and generate billions in revenue to boost economic growth,” said Congressman Allen. “Today’s vote represents another effort by Congress to move forward on its construction, which will get Americans back to work and help revitalize our ailing economy. The President has stalled the Keystone pipeline for far too long, and it’s long past time he stop standing in the way of the good-paying jobs and enhanced energy resources this project will unleash for our country. I urge the President to finally work with Congress to approve this bipartisan, job-creating initiative. The American people agree it’s time to build.” The Keystone XL pipeline would move 830,000 barrels of oil per day from the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada, and U.S. crude from the Bakken oil fields being developed in North Dakota and Montana. The project is estimated to support approximately 42,000 jobs in the construction phase and yield $2 billion in earnings throughout the United States, while also reducing oil imports from the Middle East. The project has been under review for more than six years, with five favorable environmental reports completed to date.
01.08.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today voted to pass the Save American Workers Act of 2015 (H.R. 30), legislation that would repeal the 30-hour definition of full-time employment under the Affordable Care Act (ACA), commonly referred to as ObamaCare, and redefine a full-time employee as one who works at least an average of 40 hours a week. The legislation passed the House with bipartisan support in a vote of (252-172). “Businesses and families in the 12th district are unfairly suffering under ObamaCare, and the 30-hour rule is another way this broken law is destroying jobs and weighing down our economy,” said Congressman Allen. “Restoring the 40-hour work week will help get the federal government out of the way of the business community and protect workers who have seen cuts to their hours and paychecks. These are the types of measures Congress should be putting on the President’s desk to get our country moving in the right direction. I look forward to working on more sensible solutions to fuel job growth, reduce costly burdens ObamaCare is placing on businesses and provide relief for hardworking Americans.” ObamaCare requires employers with 50 or more employees or full-time equivalents to offer health care coverage to those working more than 30 hours per week. As a result, businesses are reducing the hours of their employees, causing workers to face lost wages and decreased opportunity due to the burdensome requirement. Text of the Save American Workers Act is available HERE.
01.07.2015	U.S. Congressman Rick Allen (R-Ga.-12) today was sworn in to the 114th Congress as the new representative for Georgia’s 12th district. Upon his swearing in, Allen released the following statement: “It is the greatest honor of my life to serve the people of Georgia’s 12th district. At this critical time in our nation’s history, we now have the opportunity to change the direction of this country and ensure America remains the hope of the world. This charge is a responsibility that I cherish and take very seriously. Through God’s continued blessing and with the help of the great people of Georgia’s 12th district, I believe we can truly move this country forward. I look forward to working each and every day on behalf of my constituents on commonsense solutions to grow our economy, rein in the federal government, strengthen our communities and make our nation a better place for future generations.” Last month, Congressman Allen was assigned to the House Committee on Agriculture and the House Education and Workforce Committee. These committees will position him to advocate for Georgia’s farmers in Washington and promote greater opportunities for workers and families in the 12th district. As a member of the House Committee on Agriculture, Congressman Allen will play a role in crafting legislation that bolsters Georgia’s number one industry and will work to provide needed regulatory relief for the agriculture community. On the House Education and Workforce Committee, he will be involved in policy to strengthen local control of our nation’s schools, equip American workers with tools they need to succeed and foster innovation and entrepreneurship in today’s workforce. Congressman Allen arrives in Washington as a conservative, small business owner with years of real-world experience in the private sector. Prior to his election to Congress, Allen spent his career starting and building his own business from the ground up. At the age of 25, he founded the construction company R.W. Allen & Associates, which has enhanced economic development in Georgia and created thousands of jobs in the Augusta and Athens communities for more than 35 years.
