01.09.2019	“President Trump repeated the same fear-mongering talking points and exaggerated, misleading half-truths that he’s pitched over and over again since the beginning of his campaign..Most Americans aren’t buying it. "The only crisis we’ve got is the one that President Trump has created. The shutdown is doing more to undermine Americans' safety than the situation along the US-Mexico border. Everybody knows that our immigration system is broken and ought to be fixed -- and I certainly support smart, effective improvements in our nation’s border security -- but the shutdown should end now. Once we’ve got the government up and running again, and all our government workers are back serving the American people, we can work as long as it takes to find common ground on improving border security.” ###
12.11.2018	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative MIke Doyle gave the following opening statement at the hearing on Ray Baum's Act that was held today by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. "Thank you to the witnesses for coming before us today, and thank you to Chairman, soon to be Senator, Blackburn for holding this hearing. Congratulations. "The Ray Baum’s Act was the result of bipartisan, bicameral negotiations and good faith efforts by both sides. I’m glad that many Democratic priorities were included in this legislation, including Ranking Member Pallone’s Viewer Protection Act and Sandy Act, as well as bills led by Reps McNerney, Loebsack, Eshoo, Engel, Ruiz, Lujan, and Matsui. "However, much work remains to be done to ensure that this legislation is carried out as Congress intended. "For instance, while I’m glad that we were able to come together and ensure that broadcasters would have the resources they need to complete the Incentive Auction Repack, I’m disappointed that the FCC still has not started up the consumer education program that was authorized and funded by this legislation. "As Mr. Zachary points out, consumers are in desperate need of education about how the repack impacts them. While I understand that broadcasters have an incentive to inform their viewers, Mr. Zachary’s testimony shows that consumers often must be guided through the process of rescanning their local stations. These are problems viewers are facing now, the FCC needs to get it into gear. "Ray Baum’s Act also consolidated a number of reports at the FCC into the Consolidated Communications Marketplace Report, and the Commission is planning to vote on this report at their open meeting tomorrow. "The draft report says that nearly one hundred percent of our country is served by one or more LTE wireless providers, which is a joke. Madam Chairman, I’d like to add this draft report to the record, so that our colleagues can see what the FCC thinks about wireless coverage in their districts. "With data like this, it’s no surprise the Commission put its Mobility Fund Two auction on hold. The Commission needs better data in order to proceed with this auction. They can’t put the onus on rural bidders to verify or dispute another carrier’s claims of coverage in any given area. "So, while I am pleased the FCC has delayed this auction, I am sorely disappointed they took so long to do it. This auction will fund wireless rural broadband deployment for the next 10 years. We need to get it right. "Another aspect of the Ray Baum’s Act that I think requires more oversight is the C-Band report that the FCC and NTIA are required to submit to Congress by September of 2019. This report will examine the feasibility of allowing licensed, unlicensed, and shared use of this band. Currently, cable operators, broadcasters, and public radio use this band to distribute programing using satellite downlinks. The satellite providers have proposed a private market transaction that would sell off two hundred megahertz of spectrum to wireless companies and consolidate satellite operations into the upper three hundred megahertz of the band. "Finding creative solutions to meet our spectrum needs is crucial, and I think there is merit to this plan. However, I am very concerned about the specifics, or lack thereof, as they have been proposed so far. This band is among those that has been identified as key to deploying 5-G service. Allowing a small group of foreign companies to hand-pick which wireless carriers get access to this critical spectrum raises incredible questions about competition, rural deployment, transparency, and the public interest. Our nation cannot afford to have the FCC sit on the sidelines while our nation’s 5-G future is being decided. "Finally, my community in Pittsburgh was impacted by a terrible tragedy at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Squirrel Hill. It was the deadliest attack on the Jewish community in US history. Our community is deeply grateful for the efforts of the first responders who stopped the attack, including the 911 call center operators who received calls from the people inside. They helped dispatch the first units that responded to the scene. The Ray Baum’s Act authorized important changes to the way 911 systems work in hotels and large buildings, and Representative Eshoo and Shimkus’s leadership on this issue has been critical. We need to do more, particularly as we look at next generation systems and the funding challenges we face in deploying this technology nationwide. "Thank you again madam chair for convening this hearing, and I look forward to the testimony of our witnesses." ###
11.19.2018	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement announcing the local winners of his 2018 Congressional App Challenge. “I am pleased to announce the winners of this year’s Congressional App Challenge for Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “Congratulations to Alexander Biglan, Nick Zana, and Jason Vasko from Shady Side Academy. These students created an app which provides the current air conditions at any location and helps to estimate rocket launch performance. It provides the necessary information used to adjust launch angles, engine configuration, and rocket size to improve the launch. “I also want to recognize our runners-up. Congratulations to Ethan Busch, Ram Timsina, Michael Bennett, and Dallas Zagrocki from Baldwin-Whitehall School District. These students created an app that allows Pennsylvanians to search for and find more information about the animals in our state. “Finally, I would like to recognize James Luttringer from Baldwin-Whitehall School District. He created a game featuring Frankenstein overcoming pumpkin obstacles. “I commend these young coders for dedicating their time and skills to this competition. I also commend the parents and teachers of these students who encouraged them to participate. “I also want to thank our judges who contributed their time and expertise to evaluate our app entries, the University of Pittsburgh who hosted our award reception, and Carnegie Mellon University who will welcome our winners for a tech experience on campus in the coming weeks. “The Congressional App Challenge encourages students to explore STEM education hands-on. It is important that students are engaged in the growing STEM fields, and this competition provides them with an opportunity to pursue their interests and continue to grow their skills.” ###
11.13.2018	Washington, DC – November 13, 2018 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that earlier this evening, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.Res. 1138, legislation he introduced to condemn the October 27 anti-Semitic attack on the Tree of Life Synagogue building in Pittsburgh and honor the memory of the victims of the attack. “This attack happened because one man had a dark hatred in his heart for the Jewish people, but the Jewish community in Pittsburgh -- and the city as a whole -- have proven to be stronger than that hate,” Congressman Doyle said after approval of the bill. “We all must do more to combat this hate in our neighborhoods and to stop these tragedies from happening. This resolution is just a step in the healing process that our City, and our country, need.” H.Res. 1138 condemned the attack and all anti-semitism, honored the memory of those who were lost, expressed hope for a full and speedy recovery of those injured, offers condolences to the congregations and individuals affected by the attack, expressed gratitude for the actions of first responders and hospital personnel, rejected all forms of terror and hate, and reaffirmed the right of all Americans to freely exercise their beliefs. Click here to read the full text of the resolution. The victims in the attack were: Joyce Fienberg, Richard Gottfried, Rose Mallinger, Jerry Rabinowitz, Cecil Rosenthal, David Rosenthal, Bernice Simon, Sylvan Simon, Daniel Stein, Melvin Wax, and Irving Younger. The Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat Anti-Semitism helped draft H.Res. 1138 and were original cosponsors of the bill: (Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL)). Click here to see House Floor consideration of the bill. ###
11.06.2018	Pittsburgh, PA – November 6, 2018 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that earlier today, he and the Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat Anti-Semitism introduced legislation to condemn the October 27 anti-Semitic attack on the Tree of Life Synagogue building in Pittsburgh and honor the memory of the victims of the attack. “The Pittsburgh Jewish Community and the city at large have all shown what it means to come together after a tragedy,” Congressman Doyle said after introducing the bill. “I hope that this resolution will continue the healing process, bring honor to the victims, and offer some comfort to their families, friends, loved ones, and community. I appreciate the support of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat Anti-Semitism, and look forward to this resolution’s quick passage.” The Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Taskforce to Combat Anti-Semitism are: (Nita Lowey (D-NY), Chris Smith (R-NJ), Eliot Engel (D-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ted Deutch (D-FL), Kay Granger (R-TX), Marc Veasey (D-TX), and Peter Roskam (R-IL)). Click here to see the full text of the resolution. ###
11.02.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) of Pennsylvania, delivered the Weekly Democratic Address. In this week’s address, Congressman Doyle addressed the horrific shooting at the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh and the need for Congressional action to stop gun violence and hate crimes. Click here to watch the video. The full text follows below. “Hi, I’m Mike Doyle and I have the privilege of representing the city of Pittsburgh in the United States Congress. “Pittsburgh is a big small city with some of the friendliest people you’ll ever meet. As a lifelong resident there, I can tell you that we take great pride in our city, and our sports teams! “One of the best neighborhoods in our city is Squirrel Hill. It is the center of the Jewish community in Pittsburgh, but it’s also a neighborhood where people of all races, colors, and faith traditions coexist in a friendly and peaceful atmosphere. “Last Saturday morning started like any other in this peaceful little neighborhood, and then something unimaginable happened. A shooter entered the Tree of Life Synagogue and brutally murdered 11 congregants, and wounded 4 police officers who confronted him as he was attempting to leave. This beautiful, friendly little neighborhood had now become the scene of the deadliest anti-Semitic attack in the history of our country. “We were in shock and our hearts were broken. How could this happen here? But as we all know, this can happen anywhere. “In the midst of this darkest day in our history, rays of light began to shine through. Our first responders who ran towards the shooter to stop him and rescue and care for those still in the Synagogue. High school students who organized a vigil just hours after the attack that was attended by thousands. Muslims, Christians, Hindus, Buddhists – every faith community in every neighborhood – standing shoulder to shoulder in support of their Jewish brothers and sisters. And the Jewish community of Pittsburgh, who throughout their history have had to confront anti-Semitism, saying loud and clear, ‘We will not let hate close this Synagogue. Hate and violence have no place here. Love will conquer hate.’ “But it doesn’t end there. “Pittsburghers have been moved and comforted by the outpouring of love and support we have received from all over the Country and around the world. Acts of kindness and generosity from people with no connection to Pittsburgh have touched our hearts and given us strength. On behalf of the people of Pittsburgh, I want to say thank you. We deeply appreciate the gestures of love and support we’ve received. “A dear friend of mine in the Jewish Community said to me, ‘This week, we mourn the loss of our friends and neighbors. Next week, we act.’ “And act we must. Americans must get to work and be willing to confront the symptoms of this violence. “The first problem we need to address is the hate-filled language dominating our politics and public discourse. As Americans, we cherish our freedom of speech, but just because we can say something doesn’t mean that we should. I believe that Americans in the public arena must tone down their rhetoric, exercise restraint, and treat those with different viewpoints with respect – because we’ve got to work our way through some difficult conversations. “This starts at the top, but all of us in public life need to look in the mirror and ask ourselves, ‘Will we speak words that unite our country or divide it?’ “We desperately need to talk about problems like prejudice, mental illness, and gun violence – but more importantly, we need to act. “For starters, we need a stronger public response to the hate speech on social media that demonizes others, reinforces prejudice, and very likely incites some individuals to violence. We all have a responsibility to speak up and condemn hate speech when we see it. Moreover, we have a responsibility to let law enforcement know if we think a crime is about to be committed. “We also need to do more to treat mental illness in this country. Of course, not everyone who commits a crime is mentally ill, and few Americans with mental health issues ever commit a violent act. “Nevertheless, in several deadly hate crimes over the last decades, the shooters suffered from mental illness. That shouldn’t be surprising. Mental health has historically been neglected and under-funded. This is the richest Country in the world. Surely, we can afford to provide mental health care to our neighbors who need it. Put another way, can we afford not to? “And finally, we need to come together to reduce the gun violence that’s ripping our country apart. You would think that after all of the tragedies in Connecticut, Florida, Colorado, Nevada, and now here in Pittsburgh, that Congress would finally come together to pass common-sense gun safety legislation. “The sad reality is that this Congress has done nothing to address gun violence in this country. Not a single one of the many bills introduced to combat gun violence has been allowed to come to the Floor for a vote by the Republican leadership. “This has to change! Americans have a right to know where their Member of Congress stands on these important issues. Congress has to act! To stand by and do nothing – as innocents are murdered in our communities – seems like a crime in its own right. We owe it to those we have lost to make our communities safer, healthier and more civil. “Democrats in Congress are ready to work - and more importantly vote - on these issues. We welcome the opportunity to work with our Republican colleagues to enact bipartisan legislation to reduce hate crimes, gun violence and mental illness in this country. “That would be the best way to honor the lives lost in Pittsburgh this week. “Thank you, and God Bless our country.” # # #
10.27.2018	Pittsburgh, PA – October 27, 2018 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in response to the shooting this morning at Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh. “I was shocked and saddened by the atrocious hate crime committed this morning against worshippers at Tree of Life Synagogue. I am praying for the victims and their families, as well as the police officers who were wounded while working to stop the shooter. I am grateful to all of the first responders who rushed to the site and did their jobs without regard for their own safety. We know at this point, that the shooter was motivated by hate and anti-Semitism. We’ve got to find a way to prevent such hate from festering in our society. While that is a tall order, there are steps Congress can and should take to reduce gun violence and make this hate less deadly. Today is a time for mourning and praying as a city and community, and soon we will need to come together to heal and ensure this doesn’t happen again.” ###
10.11.2018	Washington, DC – US Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and Dwight Evans (PA-02) held a press call with reporters this morning to “pre-but” President Trump’s stump speech this evening in Erie. “Before the President comes to Pennsylvania and tries to convince everybody what a bang-up job Republicans have done over the last year and a half, we wanted to take a look at the how most Pennsylvanians are doing,” Congressman Doyle said on the call. “The Republican agenda hasn’t really helped the “forgotten men and women” the President promised to help. The report we’re releasing today documents those broken promises.” The three Congressmen released a report prepared by House Democrats documenting the challenges still facing millions of Pennsylvanians. Click here to read the report. Doyle added, “Republicans promised they’d create new jobs, raise wages, rebuild our country’s crumbling infrastructure, and make high-quality, reliable health care available at a much lower cost. How’re they doing on those goals? Frankly, not so great. “The fact of the matter is, however, that while corporations and the rich are doing great, thanks to the GOP agenda, tens of millions of Americans are still struggling to get by. “A million taxpayers in Pennsylvania will get no tax cut in 2019; and some of them will actually see their taxes go up. “The President will brag about unemployment at 4 percent and wage growth of 2.8 percent. What he doesn’t mention is that unemployment number’s so low because lots of people are so discouraged they’ve given up looking for work – and that many others are working 2 or 3 jobs in order to make ends meet. “But it’s not enough just to have a job, or two, or three. People have to make enough money to live on. We’re all glad to see wages go up 2.8 percent, but don’t think it’s some kind of Trumpian miracle. Wage growth has averaged between 2% and 3% nationwide over the last 5 years. ““Unfortunately, in Pennsylvania, real average hourly wages have fallen more than 2 percent since President Trump took the oath of office. What’s more, from a longer perspective, after adjusting for inflation the average wage today has about the same purchasing power as it did 40 years ago – while the prices of many essentials have risen faster than wages for most of that time. “Millions of Americans are faced with the challenge of stagnant wages and soaring health care costs; millions of young people are saddled with student loan debt; and our communities’ roads and schools and water systems are crumbling. “Congressional Republicans have done little to address these challenges and help out the millions of hardworking Americans barely making it from paycheck to paycheck. “Democrats have a much better deal for the American People. We want to help the majority of Americans that the GOP has left behind. Our agenda for the American people will create new jobs and raise wages by rebuilding our country, while getting health care and prescription drug costs under control so all Americans can afford the medical care they need.” Click here to read about the House Democrats’ “A Better Deal” agenda.
10.10.2018	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Robert Brady (PA-01), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Dwight Evans (PA-02), and Conor Lamb (PA-18) released a report detailing how people in Pennsylvania would be hurt by the Trump Administration’s action to invalidate protections for people with pre-existing conditions that were guaranteed by the Affordable Care Act (ACA). “More than 5 million people in Pennsylvania who have pre-existing conditions could see their premiums increase dramatically if the Affordable Care Act’s protections are undermined,” Representative Doyle said in releasing the report. “Some Pennsylvanians with pre-existing conditions could even be denied health insurance at any price. That’s unacceptable. Americans don’t want to go back to the bad old days when insurance companies cherry-picked customers and charged women, older Americans, and people with pre-existing conditions more. I helped to enact the Affordable Care Act, and I am fighting to preserve its coverage expansion and patient protections. ” “Almost 624,000 people in Pennsylvania will be severely impacted if the Trump administration is able to gut protections for people with per-existing health conditions now provided by the ACA,” Representative Brady observed. “Those who would be most at risk under this proposed Trump hatchet job are the most vulnerable Americans, not the privileged one percent. We cannot allow this wrong headed proposal to happen.” “Creating instability for people with pre-existing health conditions is a step back,” said Representative Cartwright. “We need to be taking steps forward, like lowering the costs of prescription drugs.” “Allowing insurance companies to deny someone health coverage or raise rates because of a pre-existing condition is nothing short of cruel,” said Representative Boyle. “The health and financial stability of more than 5 million Pennsylvanians hangs in the balance. Some of these people are denied coverage with a “pre-existing condition” like childhood acne, pregnancy, or for just being a woman. This is absurd. As much as the Trump Administration tries, I refuse to go back to bad old days when these people were left in jeopardy.” Representative Evans said, “In 2016, President Trump promised Pennsylvanians ‘quality, reliable, affordable health care’ and ‘at a much less expensive cost.’ He and his Republican enablers in Congress have failed Pennsylvanians on that. In 2016, President Trump also said big pharmaceutical companies are ‘getting away with murder’ and that ‘We’re going to negotiate like crazy’ on Medicare Part D prescription drug prices. He and Republicans in Congress have failed Pennsylvanians on that too.” “People suffering from cancer, or diabetes, or asthma or any other preexisting condition shouldn’t have to live in fear of losing their coverage or seeing their premiums go through the roof,” Congressman Lamb stated. “We should be working together to make health care and prescription drugs more affordable, not taking away protections that have made such an enormous difference in the lives of so many people in our state and all over the country." At Congressman Doyle’s request, Democratic staff on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform prepared a report on the threat posed to Pennsylvanians by the Trump Administration’s actions to weaken the ACA’s protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. The report estimates that: As many as 624,000 people in the individual market in Pennsylvania may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of their pre-existing health conditions, gender, or age. Individuals with Pre-Existing Health Conditions: As many as 399,000 people in the state who purchase insurance through the individual market have pre-existing health conditions and may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of the Administration’s actions. Of these individuals, 196,000 have pre-existing health conditions severe enough that insurers might deny them coverage altogether. Women: As many as 368,000 women in the state who purchase coverage through the individual market may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases because of their gender as a result of the Administration’s actions. Before current protections were put in place, a 40-year-old Pennsylvania woman paid 20% to 47% more for coverage than a man of the same age as a result of discrimination by insurance companies. Older Adults: If current statutory protections are eliminated, older Americans could be charged many times more than the amount younger adults pay for their insurance premiums. As many as 281,000 individuals between 50 and 64 years old in the state who purchase health insurance through the individual market may lose federal protections against coverage denials or premium increases as a result of the Administration’s actions. Although this report focuses primarily on individuals who purchase insurance through the individual market, 6,335,000 individuals in Pennsylvania with employer-sponsored insurance may also be at risk of losing these federal protections. According to a recent Kaiser Family Foundation poll, nearly three-quarters of the American people believe it is “very important” to retain these protections in the law. Click here to read today’s report. ###
09.27.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in reaction to the testimony of Dr. Christine Blasey Ford today before the Senate Judiciary Committee regarding the past actions of Judge Kavanaugh. “Today, the nation watched as an extremely courageous woman, Dr. Christine Blasey Ford, discussed in detail her recollections of a traumatic event over thirty years ago. I found her – and her testimony – to be extremely credible. I can’t see any advantage to her or her family from subjecting herself to this excruciating public exposure. “The Senate should pause the confirmation proceedings until the FBI can complete a thorough investigation into these allegations. The American people deserve to know the whole story before we put Judge Kavanaugh on the bench for life.” ###
08.03.2018	Washington, DC – August 3, 2018 – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle announced that Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District is participating in the 2018 Congressional App Challenge. This competition is held in many Congressional districts throughout the country as an opportunity for middle school and high school students to create their own apps for computer and digital systems to receive feedback from leading experts in the field. “The Congressional App Challenge invites middle and high school students to develop their coding skills and discover their potential in the growing tech industry,” Congressman Doyle said in announcing the competition. “I hope our students take this opportunity to use their great ideas to create the next best app.” Registration The Congressional App Challenge is open to all middle and high school students residing or attending school in PA-14. Students are welcome to register individually or in teams of up to four individuals, but please note that students may only register in one congressional district. If you are uncertain whether you reside or attend school in PA-14, please visit the House of Representatives website. Students are required to enter by October 15 2018. In order to register, students should visit the Congressional App Challenge website and submit a registration form. Participation Entries must be submitted by the closing date, October 15, 2018. Apps must be original and must have been created within one year of the closing date. Apps will be evaluated based on demonstrated excellence of computer programming skills, quality and creativity of idea, and implementation of idea. Students must submit a summary as well as a YouTube or VIMEO video describing their app and their learning process throughout the competition. A panel of judges from prominent tech programs in PA-14 will evaluate these apps and select the winner. Prizes Apps will be judged throughout October and November, and the winning app will be announced during Computer Science Education Week, December 3-7, 2018. There will be one winner, individual or team, selected from PA-14. The winning app will be displayed in the United States Capitol and shown on the United States House of Representatives website. The winner will be invited to the House of Code Demo Day Reception in Washington, D.C., but please note that the winner will be responsible for transportation and other expenses. All participants will be invited to a reception in Pittsburgh after the closing date. Additional prizes will be announced throughout the competition. If you have any questions, please contact Natalie Young in the Washington DC office at natalie.young@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-2135.
07.16.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in reaction to President Trump’s meeting and press conference today with Vladimir Putin: “The President’s behavior today was outrageous. “The President should have told Putin in no uncertain terms that Russian interference in any future US elections will not be tolerated. Unfortunately, he did nothing of the sort. “He should have pressed Putin about supporting a brutal genocidal regime in Syria. He did not. “He should have insisted that Russia stop destabilizing countries along its border – like Ukraine – and reverse its recent seizure of Crimea in violation of international norms; he did nothing like that. “He should have insisted that Putin stop killing journalists, his critics, and his political opponents; apparently he didn’t get to that, either. “Instead, he accepted Putin’s denial of Russian interference in the 2016 elections, and he denigrated our law enforcement and intelligence agencies for investigating it. “He blamed the United States for the poor relations between our two countries, rather than Russia’s many violations of international law – from imprisoning and assassinating critics to undermining foreign governments and invading other countries outright. “Donald Trump advanced Russia’s international agenda today, not our country’s. He disgraced the United States and betrayed the values our country holds dear – democracy, human rights, and a government of laws, not money and power. His behavior was nothing short of shocking and shameful.” ###
06.21.2018	Washington, DC – US Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in response to the police-related shooting death of Antwon Rose Tuesday night. “I want to offer my deepest condolences to the family and friends of Antwon Rose. I’m deeply sorry for your sudden and unexpected loss. “The video of Antwon’s shooting is extremely troubling, and it raises many questions. There must be a thorough and transparent investigation of this incident. “Antwon’s family deserves to know what happened - and to see local officials take the appropriate actions when the investigation is over. So do the rest of us. That’s the only way to address this tragedy if we’re going to unite and heal this community.” ###
06.18.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement today condemning the Trump Administration’s “Zero Tolerance” policy separating undocumented children from their parents. “The Trump Administration’s policy of separating families at the border is abhorrent, not to mention possibly illegal and unconstitutional. Families with children shouldn’t be treated this way. “I strongly oppose the Trump Administration’s policy of separating children from their parents. I’m outraged that the Administration would adopt this policy, and I’m angry that the Administration is trying to mislead the public about why so many children are being separated from their parents now. “The separation of children from their parents at the border began in May when the Trump Administration announced its ‘Zero Tolerance’ policy of arresting and prosecuting all adults who crossed the border without the proper papers. It’s Trump’s policy – and his policy alone – that’s separating children from their parents. “At first, I think it was, as [former DHS Secretary and now White House Chief of Staff] John Kelly said, an attempt to deter the immigration of undocumented families by making the consequences of crossing the border harsher. “But now that there’s been such a big backlash against the policy of separating children from their parents, it seems that the Trump Administration is trying to shift the blame for its own policy choices onto Democrats, and use the public outcry as leverage to force Democrats to accept a number of other harsh Trump anti-immigrant policies – just as it did earlier with DACA. “I’m a cosponsor of H.Res. 927, which condemns the Trump Administration’s Zero Tolerance policy for separating children from their parents, and calls for keeping the families of immigrants and asylum-seekers together.” ###
06.11.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) emphasized today that the fight to save Net Neutrality isn’t over, even though the FCC order ending the federal Net Neutrality policy takes effect today. “Americans lost an important right today when the FCC’s order nullifying the federal Net Neutrality policy went into effect,” Congressman Doyle observed. “People won’t see any major changes today, but unless Net Neutrality is restored, consumers, innovators, and small businesses will see their service deteriorate, their choices decrease, and their costs go up over time as Internet Service Providers start throttling internet speeds, blocking content, and prioritizing content to hurt their competitors.” “An overwhelming majority of Americans support Net Neutrality, but the FCC has nevertheless refused to be guided by the will of the people," he added. "It’s still possible to save Net Neutrality, however. The Senate has voted to overturn the FCC order that killed off Net Neutrality. Now the House must do the same. Since the Speaker opposes Net Neutrality, the only way to get a vote on it is with a ‘discharge petition’ that would force a vote in the House on the legislation to save Net Neutrality. 170 Representatives have signed the discharge petition so far. We just need to get 50 more to get a vote.” On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted along party lines to reverse the Open Internet Order, which regulates Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in order to ensure net neutrality. Net Neutrality means that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) can’t discriminate against different types of Internet content; the Open Internet Order prohibited ISPs from blocking, throttling, or discriminating against any internet content – as well as from charging more to deliver content faster. Repeal of the Net Neutrality rules will lead over time to higher prices for consumers and small businesses, slower internet traffic, and possibly even blocked websites. Under the Congressional Review Act, members of the House and Senate can offer a joint resolution of disapproval on any regulation recently issued by a federal agency. Earlier this year, Congressman Doyle introduced legislation (H.J.Res. 129) in the House to overrule the FCC’s action, and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced a counterpart bill in the Senate (S.J.Res. 52). The Senate bill was approved in May by a vote of 52 to 47. Congressman Doyle has filed a discharge petition to bring the legislation to save Net Neutrality up for a vote in the House, and if a majority of the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sign that discharge petition, House rules (specifically Rule XV, clause 2) mandate that it be voted on by the full House. Click here to see the list of Representatives who have signed the Net Neutrality discharge petition. ###
05.17.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that he has filed a petition to require a vote in the House on his bill to save Net Neutrality. “Now that the Senate has passed legislation to overrule the FCC order eliminating Net Neutrality, the next step is passing this legislation in the House,” Congressman Doyle said. “The discharge petition I’ve filed today would force a vote on the legislation to save Net Neutrality. Now we just need to get a majority of Representatives to sign it.” On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted along party lines to reverse the Open Internet Order, which regulates Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in order to ensure net neutrality. Net Neutrality means that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) don’t discriminate against different types of Internet content; the Open Internet Order prohibited ISPs from blocking, throttling, or discriminating against any internet content – as well as from charging more to deliver content faster. Repealing these net neutrality rules could lead to higher prices for consumers and small businesses, slower internet traffic, and even blocked websites. Under the Congressional Review Act, members of the House and Senate can offer a joint resolution of disapproval on any regulation recently issued by a federal agency. Earlier this year, Congressman Doyle introduced legislation (H.J.Res. 129) in the House to overrule the FCC’s action, and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced a counterpart bill in the Senate (S.J.Res. 52). The Senate bill was approved yesterday by a vote of 52 to 47. Congressman Doyle has filed a discharge petition to bring the legislation to save Net Neutrality up for a vote in the House, and if a majority of the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sign that discharge petition, House rules (specifically Rule XV, clause 2) mandate that it be voted on by the full House. “With the Speaker opposed to Net Neutrality, the only way to bring it before the full House for a vote is through a discharge petition,” Congressman Doyle explained. “Under the rules of the House, my bill to save Net Neutrality must be brought to the House Floor for a vote if a majority of Representatives sign this discharge petition.” ###
05.16.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) joined House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) at a press conference this afternoon in announcing that, with the passage of legislation to overrule the Federal Communications Commission’s order eliminating Net Neutrality in the U.S. Senate earlier today, the next step must be passage of this legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives. “The Senate vote is a major step forward in the fight to preserve Net Neutrality – and a great victory for the millions of Americans who use the internet," Congressman Doyle said this afternoon. “But the fight isn’t over. We’ve got to get this bill through the House as well in order to overturn the FCC’s repeal of Net Neutrality.” “With the Majority Leadership in the House opposed to this bill, the only way to bring it before the full House for a vote is through a discharge petition,” Congressman Doyle explained. “Under the rules of the House, a bill MUST be brought to the House Floor for a vote if a majority of Representatives sign a discharge petition demanding it.” “I’m filing a discharge petition to force a vote on the legislation to save Net Neutrality, and we just need to get a majority of Representatives to sign it,” Doyle added. “I’m sure that every Member of the House will want to know where their constituents stand on this issue.” On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted along party lines to reverse the Open Internet Order, which regulates Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in order to ensure net neutrality. Net Neutrality means that Internet Service Providers (ISPs) don’t discriminate against different types of Internet content; the Open Internet Order prohibited ISPs from blocking, throttling, or discriminating against any internet content – as well as from charging more to deliver content faster. Repealing these net neutrality rules could lead to higher prices for consumers and small businesses, slower internet traffic, and even blocked websites. Under the Congressional Review Act, members of the House and Senate can offer a joint resolution of disapproval on any regulation recently issued by a federal agency. Earlier this year, Congressman Doyle introduced legislation (H.J.Res. 129) in the House to overrule the FCC’s action, and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) introduced a counterpart bill in the Senate (S.J.Res. 52). The Senate bill was approved today by a vote of 52 to 47. Congressman Doyle has filed a discharge petition to bring the legislation to save Net Neutrality up for a vote in the House (H.Res. 873), and if a majority of the Members of the U.S. House of Representatives sign the Net Neutrality discharge petition, House rules (specifically Rule XV, clause 2) mandate that it be voted on by the full House. ###
04.16.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced today that H.J.Res. 129, legislation to overrule the Federal Communications Commission’s order repealing Net Neutrality, now has 160 cosponsors. “I’m pleased to announce that we’ve reached another milestone in the fight to preserve Net Neutrality,” Congressman Doyle said today in announcing more cosponsors. “I think grassroots pressure on Congress to support this bill will continue to grow until the public gets what it wants – an end to special interest efforts to kill Net Neutrality.” The Members of Congress who have cosponsored H.J.Res. 129 are: Adams, Alma S. [D-NC-12] Aguilar, Pete [D-CA-31] Barragan, Nanette Diaz [D-CA-44] Bass, Karen [D-CA-37] Bera, Ami [D-CA-7] Beyer, Donald S., Jr. [D-VA-8] Bishop, Sanford D., Jr. [D-GA-2] Blumenauer, Earl [D-OR-3] Blunt Rochester, Lisa [D-DE] Bonamici, Suzanne [D-OR-1] Bordallo, Madeleine Z. [D-GU] Boyle, Brendan F. [D-PA-13] Brown, Anthony G. [D-MD-4] Brownley, Julia [D-CA-26] Bustos, Cheri [D-IL-17] Capuano, Michael E. [D-MA-7] Carbajal, Salud O. [D-CA-24] Cardenas, Tony [D-CA-29] Carson, Andre [D-IN-7] Castor, Kathy [D-FL-14] Castro, Joaquin [D-TX-20] Chu, Judy [D-CA-27] Cicilline, David N. [D-RI-1] Clark, Katherine M. [D-MA-5] Clarke, Yvette D. [D-NY-9] Clay, Wm. Lacy [D-MO-1] Cohen, Steve [D-TN-9] Connolly, Gerald E. [D-VA-11] Cooper, Jim [D-TN-5] Courtney, Joe [D-CT-2] Crist, Charlie [D-FL-13] Crowley, Joseph [D-NY-14] Cummings, Elijah E. [D-MD-7] Davis, Danny K. [D-IL-7] Davis, Susan A. [D-CA-53] DeFazio, Peter A. [D-OR-4] DeGette, Diana [D-CO-1] Delaney, John K. [D-MD-6] DeLauro, Rosa L. [D-CT-3] DelBene, Suzan K. [D-WA-1] DeSaulnier, Mark [D-CA-11] Deutch, Theodore E. [D-FL-22] Dingell, Debbie [D-MI-12] Doggett, Lloyd [D-TX-35] Ellison, Keith [D-MN-5] Engel, Eliot L. [D-NY-16] Eshoo, Anna G. [D-CA-18] Espaillat, Adriano [D-NY-13] Esty, Elizabeth H. [D-CT-5] Foster, Bill [D-IL-11] Frankel, Lois [D-FL-21] Gabbard, Tulsi [D-HI-2] Gallego, Ruben [D-AZ-7] Garamendi, John [D-CA-3] Gomez, Jimmy [D-CA-34] Grijalva, Raul M. [D-AZ-3] Hanabusa, Colleen [D-HI-1] Heck, Denny [D-WA-10] Higgins, Brian [D-NY-26] Himes, James A. [D-CT-4] Hoyer, Steny H. [D-MD-5] Huffman, Jared [D-CA-2] Jackson Lee, Sheila [D-TX-18] Jayapal, Pramila [D-WA-7] Jeffries, Hakeem S. [D-NY-8] Johnson, Henry C. "Hank," Jr. [D-GA-4] Kaptur, Marcy [D-OH-9] Keating, William R. [D-MA-9] Kennedy, Joseph P., III [D-MA-4] Khanna, Ro [D-CA-17] Kihuen, Ruben J. [D-NV-4] Kildee, Daniel T. [D-MI-5] Kilmer, Derek [D-WA-6] Kind, Ron [D-WI-3] Krishnamoorthi, Raja [D-IL-8] Kuster, Ann M. [D-NH-2] Langevin, James R. [D-RI-2] Larsen, Rick [D-WA-2] Larson, John B. [D-CT-1] Lawrence, Brenda L. [D-MI-14] Lawson, Al, Jr. [D-FL-5] Lee, Barbara [D-CA-13] Levin, Sander M. [D-MI-9] Lewis, John [D-GA-5] Lipinski, Daniel [D-IL-3] Loebsack, David [D-IA-2] Lofgren, Zoe [D-CA-19] Lowenthal, Alan S. [D-CA-47] Lowey, Nita M. [D-NY-17] Lujan Grisham, Michelle [D-NM-1] Lujan, Ben Ray [D-NM-3] Lynch, Stephen F. [D-MA-8] Maloney, Carolyn B. [D-NY-12] Maloney, Sean Patrick [D-NY-18] Matsui, Doris O. [D-CA-6] McCollum, Betty [D-MN-4] McEachin, A. Donald [D-VA-4] McGovern, James P. [D-MA-2] McNerney, Jerry [D-CA-9] Meng, Grace [D-NY-6] Moore, Gwen [D-WI-4] Moulton, Seth [D-MA-6] Nadler, Jerrold [D-NY-10] Napolitano, Grace F. [D-CA-32] Neal, Richard E. [D-MA-1] Nolan, Richard M. [D-MN-8] Norcross, Donald [D-NJ-1] Norton, Eleanor Holmes [D-DC] O'Rourke, Beto [D-TX-16] Pallone, Frank, Jr. [D-NJ-6] Panetta, Jimmy [D-CA-20] Pascrell, Bill, Jr. [D-NJ-9] Pelosi, Nancy [D-CA-12] Perlmutter, Ed [D-CO-7] Peterson, Collin C. [D-MN-7] Pingree, Chellie [D-ME-1] Pocan, Mark [D-WI-2] Polis, Jared [D-CO-2] Price, David E. [D-NC-4] Quigley, Mike [D-IL-5] Raskin, Jamie [D-MD-8] Rice, Kathleen M. [D-NY-4] Richmond, Cedric L. [D-LA-2] Rosen, Jacky [D-NV-3] Roybal-Allard, Lucille [D-CA-40] Ryan, Tim [D-OH-13] Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho [D-MP] Sanchez, Linda T. [D-CA-38] Sarbanes, John P. [D-MD-3] Schakowsky, Janice D. [D-IL-9] Schiff, Adam B. [D-CA-28] Schrader, Kurt [D-OR-5] Scott, Robert C. "Bobby" [D-VA-3] Serrano, Jose E. [D-NY-15] Sewell, Terri A. [D-AL-7] Shea-Porter, Carol [D-NH-1] Sherman, Brad [D-CA-30] Sires, Albio [D-NJ-8] Slaughter, Louise McIntosh [D-NY-25] Smith, Adam [D-WA-9] Soto, Darren [D-FL-9] Speier, Jackie [D-CA-14] Suozzi, Thomas R. [D-NY-3] Swalwell, Eric [D-CA-15] Takano, Mark [D-CA-41] Thompson, Mike [D-CA-5] Titus, Dina [D-NV-1] Tonko, Paul [D-NY-20] Torres, Norma J. [D-CA-35] Tsongas, Niki [D-MA-3] Vargas, Juan [D-CA-51] Veasey, Marc A. [D-TX-33] Velazquez, Nydia M. [D-NY-7] Visclosky, Peter J. [D-IN-1] Walz, Timothy J. [D-MN-1] Wasserman Schultz, Debbie [D-FL-23] Waters, Maxine [D-CA-43] Watson Coleman, Bonnie [D-NJ-12] Welch, Peter [D-VT] Yarmuth, John A. [D-KY-3] ###
04.11.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today after participating in a House Energy and Commerce Committee hearing in which he questioned Facebook Founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg about recent disclosures relating to Cambridge Analytica. “Recent revelations about Cambridge Analytica’s illicit acquisition of data about millions of Facebook users have raised many troubling questions about the safety and security of our online data - and the steps that online companies like Facebook are taking to safeguard that information. “While Cambridge Analytica acted in ways that violated Facebook’s developer policies, Facebook itself was lax in enforcing these polices. Facebook has admitted that an untold number of user profiles from Facebook have been stolen and potentially sold by developers that operated Facebook applications. “I appreciate the actions taken by Facebook to correct these mistakes and guard against this type of disclosure in the future, but this latest episode highlights the long history of poor judgement at Facebook when it comes to users’ personal information. Facebook has consistently prioritized its growth over its responsibilities to its users. “While I’m pleased to see that Facebook has proposed new protections for its users in the United States, the EU, and around the globe, I remain concerned that the current U.S. regulatory structure is not sufficient. “The American people deserve better. We need to be able to assure them they have control of their data - and that their data is safe and secure. To achieve this, as Mr. Zuckerberg said, new regulations will be necessary. “That is why I think that new legislation to protect Americans’ privacy and personal data is needed. Until the federal government makes a major new commitment to protecting consumers’ privacy and personal data, no American can be sure that their personal information is safe or their privacy is assured.” Click here to watch video of Congressman Doyle questioning Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg. ###
04.03.2018	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that Haley Peretic from Cornerstone Christian Preparatory Academy won the First Place ribbon in the 2018 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Ms. Peretic’s artwork, a drawing in colored pencil and marker entitled “Happy Heart,” will be displayed in a place of honor in the tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for the next year. Her work was selected out of a field of 90 entries from 19 schools in the 14th Congressional District. The Second Place ribbon recipient was Laurel Black from Springdale High School for her oil painting “Sweet Innocence.” Her artwork will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s Washington, DC, office. The Third Place award went to Derek Kotecki from Baldwin High School for his charcoal drawing entitled “Self.” Mr. Kotecki’s painting will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s South Side Pittsburgh office. The Fourth Place ribbon went to Rachel Simcic from Springdale High School for her composition involving mixed media, digital art, and markers entitled “Thief.” Ms. Simcic’s painting will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s Penn Hills office. The Fifth place award recipient of the 14th District Congressional High School Art Competition was Taylor Rebyanski from Westinghouse Arts Academy for her colored pencil drawing “Iris.” Ms. Rebyanski’s artwork will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s McKeesport District Office for the coming year. “We received 90 impressive entries for this year’s competition, and I don’t know how the judges were able to pick a winner,” Congressman Doyle said. “The effort and dedication that these students put into their compositions is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be very proud of their work.” The winners were announced and all of the participants were recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union building this evening. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the twenty-fourth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are eligible to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event each year.” The judges awarded the following students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Summer Bernotas from Baldwin High School Nicole Ellwood from East Allegheny High School Julia Conway from Gateway High School Erin Douglass from Gateway High School Aliza Hamid from Gateway High School Shaina McKinney from Gateway High School Anwitha Sherigar from Gateway High School Jennifer Gustafson from Highlands High School * Sophie Gatesman from Oakland Catholic High School Madison Pastore from South Allegheny High School Kathleen Marsili from Springdale High School * Sophia Lebiere from Winchester Thurston School * individuals who received Honorable Mention awards last year as well ###
03.07.2018	Washington, DC – Today, all 24 Democrats on the House Energy and Commerce Committee sent a letter to Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) urging him to hold hearings as soon as possible to address gun violence in America. The Democrats’ letter includes a request for four hearings on gun violence, including: who gun violence hurts; whether mass shootings are becoming increasingly deadly; the distribution of guns, ammunition, and accessories through e-commerce, and whether federal agencies have the resources necessary to exercise effective oversight of such activity; and the extent to which social media may be increasing the hostility surrounding the gun debate. “The day after the Parkland shooting, Speaker Ryan said that he was not willing to discuss gun control at this time. The Trump Administration said the same thing after a gunman killed 58 people in Las Vegas, Nevada last October, albeit while promising that ‘one day’ such policy conversations would be appropriate,” the Democrats wrote to Chairman Walden. “Americans deserve better than empty promises and delaying tactics. ‘One day’ is now, and this debate has gone on long enough. The lives of our children and our constituents are at risk, and it is past time for us to take common-sense measures to protect them.” “The American people rightfully have questions about the ever-increasing capacity of guns to kill or seriously harm in large numbers and why these weapons are so easy to obtain in the marketplace,” the Democrats continued in their letter to Chairman Walden. “There are also legitimate questions this Committee must take up, including the ease of purchasing ammunition and gun accessories online and whether social media is contributing to the societal divisions on the topic of gun violence.” Today’s letter follows a February 16th letter from the Democratic Committee members to Chairman Walden and Subcommittee Chairman Michael Burgess (R-TX) calling on them to hold a hearing on gun violence prevention research. The Republican leaders have neither responded to that request nor scheduled a hearing on the subject. The Democrats are requesting four additional hearings be held to explore the following topics: Gun violence in America: Who does gun violence hurt? This hearing would examine who is most likely to be killed or injured in a firearm related incident, what proportion of gun deaths are attributable to suicide, accidents, or mass shootings, and the barriers to predicting where and when those shootings will take place. The lethality of guns in America: Where do you draw the line between sport, self-defense, and public threat? This hearing would examine if mass shootings have become increasingly deadly, whether there is a rising death toll attributable to particular guns, ammunition, or accessories, and the types of guns used for sport and self-defense and the ease with which they can be purchased. “Shoot Now, Pay Later”: Sales of guns, ammunition, and accessories over the Internet. This hearing would explore the ease of purchasing guns on the Internet, and what both companies and the government can do to close loop-holes that allow those that cannot purchase guns in person to purchase them online. What role does social media play in the divisions of the gun debate? This hearing would examine whether social media is increasing the hostility surrounding the gun control debate in response to the conspiracy theories, and bot and troll activity with both pro-gun and anti-gun messages, which inundated social media after the Parkland shooting. A copy of the letter is available here. ###
02.27.2018	Washington – Today, Net Neutrality National Day of Action,Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) and Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) introduced a Congressional Review Act (CRA) resolution to overturn the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) partisan decision on net neutrality. At a press conference this morning, Senator Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.) and Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced the introduction of House and Senate resolutions to fully restore the 2015 Open Internet Order. The Senate CRA resolution of disapproval stands at 50 supporters, including Republican Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine). Rep. Doyle’s resolution in the House of Representatives (H.J.Res. 129) currently has 152 co-sponsors. The FCC’s Open Internet Order prohibited internet service providers from blocking, slowing down, or discriminating against content online. Repealing these net neutrality rules could lead to higher prices for consumers, slower internet traffic, and even blocked websites. A recent poll showed that 83 percent of Americans do not approve of the FCC’s action to repeal net neutrality rules. “President Trump and FCC Chairman Ajit Pai might want to end the internet as we know it, but we won’t agonize, we will organize,” said Senator Markey. “The grassroots movement to reinstate net neutrality is growing by the day, and we will get that one more vote needed to pass my CRA resolution. I urge my Republicans colleagues to join the overwhelming majority of Americans who support a free and open internet. The internet is for all – the students, teachers, innovators, hard-working families, small businesses, and activists, not just Verizon, Charter, AT&T, and Comcast and corporate interests.”” “We’ve been chomping at the bit to introduce this bill and launch the effort to overturn the FCC’s repeal of Net Neutrality,” said Congressman Doyle. “Finally, that day is here, and we’re roaring to go. Millions of Americans from across the political spectrum want to preserve Net Neutrality. They couldn’t convince three FCC Commissioners to do the right thing last year, but I believe their elected Senators and Representatives will be responsive if those millions of voters make their voices heard and promise to hold opponents of Net Neutrality accountable for their actions.” A copy of the House CRA resolution can be found HERE. Here are the names of the original cosponsors: Alma S. Adams (NC-12), Karen Bass (CA-37), Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Ami Bera (CA-07), Don S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08), Sanford Bishop (GA-02), Earl Blumenauer (OR-03), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01), Madeleine Bordallo (GU-Del), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), Mike Capuano (MA-07), Salud Carbajal (CA-24), Andre Carson (IN-07), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Joaquin Castro (TX-20), Judy Chu (CA-27), David Cicilline (RI-01), Katherine M. Clark (MA-05), Yvette Clarke (NY-09), William Lacy Clay (MO-01), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Gerald Connolly (VA-11), Jim Cooper (TN-05), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Charlie Crist (FL-13), Joe Crowley (NY-14), Elijah Cummings (MD-07), Danny Davis (IL-07), Susan Davis (CA-53), Peter DeFazio (OR-04), Diana DeGette (CO-01), John Delaney (MD-06), Rosa DeLauro (CT-03), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Eliot Engel (NY-16), Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Adriano Espaillat (NY-13), Elizabeth Esty (CT-05), Lois Frankel (FL-21), Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), John Garamendi (CA-03), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Raul Grijalva (AZ-03), Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Denny Heck (WA-10), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Jim Himes (CT-04), Jared Huffman (CA-02), Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Bill Keating (MA-09), Joe Kennedy (MA-04), Ro Khanna (CA-17), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Ruben Kihuen (NV-04), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Ron Kind (WI-03), Raja Krishnamoorthi (IL-08), Ann Kuster (NH-02), James R. Langevin (RI-02), Rick Larsen ( WA-02), John Larson (CT-01), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), Al Lawson Jr. (FL-05), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Sander Levin (MI-09), John Lewis (GA-05), Daniel W. Lipinski (IL-03), Dave Loebsack (IA-02), Zoe Lofgren (CA-19), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Nita Lowey (NY-17) Ben Ray Lujan (NM-03), Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01), Stephen Lynch (MA-08), Carolyn Maloney (NY-12), Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Betty McCollum (MN-04), Donald McEachin (VA-04), James P. McGovern (MA-02), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Grace Meng (NY-06), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32), Richard E. Neal (MA-01), Richard Nolan (MN-08), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-Del), Beto O’Rourke (TX-16), Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), Jimmy Panetta (CA-20), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), Ed Perlmutter (CO-07), Collin Peterson (MN-07), Chellee Pingree (ME-01), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Jared Polis (CO-02), David Price (NC-04), Jamie Raskin (MD-08), Kathleen M. Rice (NY-04), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-Del), Linda Sanchez (CA-38), John Sarbanes (MD-03), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03), José E. Serrano (NY-15), Terri Sewell (AL-07), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Brad Sherman (CA-30), Albio Sires (NJ-08), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Adam Smith (WA-09), Darren Soto (FL-09), Jackie Speier (CA-14), Tom Suozzi (NY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Mark Takano (CA-41), Mike Thompson (CA-05), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), Norma J. Torres (CA-35), Niki Tsongas (MA-03), Juan Vargas (CA-51), Marc Veasy (TX-33), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Pete Visclosky (IN-01), Tim Walz (MN-01), Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23), Maxine Waters (CA-43), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Peter Welch (VT-AL), John Yarmuth (KY-03). Last week, the FCC’s rule repealing net neutrality was published in the Federal Register, leaving 60 legislative days to seek a vote on the Senate floor on the CRA resolutions. In order to force a vote on the Senate resolution, Senator Markey will submit a discharge petition, which requires a minimum of 30 Senators’ signature. Once the discharge petition is filed, Senator Markey and Senate Democrats will demand a vote on the resolution. ###
02.09.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today after the House approved a two-year bipartisan, bicameral federal budget plan (HR 1892). “I voted in favor of the budget agreement because it’s a reasonable compromise that keeps the government open and provides funding for important Democratic priorities. "For example, the agreement funded Community Health Centers for the next 2 years. There are 33 Community Health Center facilities in Pennsylvania’s 14th District, serving more than 44,000 people a year; they’re an essential part of Pittsburgh’s health care system. "The agreement also contains nearly $90 billion in disaster relief for regions of the country that were hit by devastating wildfires and hurricanes. "In addition, it included $6 billion for the treatment for opioid addiction, which is killing hundreds of people a year in Allegheny County alone. “Finally, the House and Senate Majority leaders made commitments on the record that they’ll bring up a DACA bill. I remain a proud cosponsor of the DREAM Act, and I will hold the Speaker to his word on DACA.” ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – US Representatives Leonard Lance (NJ-07) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) are introducing bipartisan legislation to help bring 5G wireless service closer to reality and close the digital divide. Lance and Doyle are Vice Chair and Ranking Member, respectively, of the House Energy and Commerce Committee's Communications and Technology Subcommittee. The Advancing Innovation and Reinvigorating Widespread Access to Viable Electromagnetic Spectrum (AIRWAVES) Act will encourage the federal government to free up more spectrum for commercial licensed and unlicensed use. More spectrum will improve data service from all providers and help close geographic gaps in coverage. Unlicensed spectrum will also help support the usage of Wi-Fi and Bluetooth technologies, among other innovations. “The bipartisan AIRWAVES Act is the kind of bill that will make a difference in the lives of Internet users. By opening up more federal spectrum for commercial usage we are helping lay the groundwork for 5G. The Internet is the lifeblood of the American economy – transforming countless industries and everyday life. To compete in the 21st century we must have a robust spectrum pipeline so we can win the race to 5G as we did with 4G LTE. We also have to close the connectivity divide and bring reliable Internet service to a larger segment of Americans – especially those in unserved areas. And with multi-device households on the rise we need more data to stay connected. All consumers need a system with faster speed, better reliability and affordable options and the AIRWAVES Act brings us one step closer,” said Lance, the Vice Chair of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee. “I’m proud to join with Congressman Lance in introducing the Airwaves Act in the House. This legislation builds upon the good work done by Senators Gardner and Hassan, which laid much of the foundation for the bill we have introduced. This bipartisan, bicameral legislation would establish a reliable pipeline for licensed and unlicensed spectrum. The pipeline will provide spectrum for robust and competitive deployments of 5G wireless broadband networks, which will build on the success of Wi-Fi by making additional, much needed, unlicensed spectrum available. Additionally, I’m very proud that this legislation requires that 10 percent of the proceeds from the spectrum auctions included in this bill would go toward the buildout of wireless broadband in rural America. These are much needed investments that would benefit unserved and underserved communities,” said Ranking Member Doyle. The AIRWAVES Act will encourage the federal government to auction more spectrum to wireless providers, which in turn will lead to greater capacity for existing services. The legislation includes requirements to make sure rural areas get attention by dedicating certain proceeds from spectrum auctions go directly into development for wireless broadband infrastructure to unserved and underserved areas. Original cosponsors of the legislation are Reps. Brett Guthrie (KY-02), Doris Matsui (CA-06), Susan Brooks (IN-05), Peter Welch (VT), Tim Walberg (MI-07) and Yvette Clarke (NY-09). The AIRWAVES Act is championed in the U.S. Senate by Senators Cory Gardner (CO) and Maggie Hassan (NH). ###
01.23.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that 110 Members of Congress have asked to cosponsor his legislation to overrule the FCC’s order eliminating Net Neutrality. “I’m pleased that we’ve been able to pick up nearly 30 additional cosponsors of our bill to save Net Neutrality in just a week,” Congressman Doyle said today. “It says to me that the momentum behind this legislation is building.” On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted along party lines to reverse the Open Internet Order, which regulated Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in order to ensure net neutrality. Later that day, Congressman Doyle announced that he would introduce legislation in the House to overrule the FCC’s action, and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) announced that he would do the same in the Senate. The Senate bill currently has 50 cosponsors. Under the Congressional Review Act, members of the House and Senate can offer a joint resolution of disapproval on any regulation recently issued by a federal agency. Such legislation can’t be introduced, however, until the regulation is “received by Congress.” As of today, the following Members of the US House of Representatives have agreed to cosponsor Congressman Doyle’s legislation to save Net Neutrality: 1. Alma S. Adams (NC-12) 2. Don S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08) 3. Sanford Bishop (GA-02) 4. Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) 5. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) 6. Madeleine Bordallo (GU-Del) 7. Julia Brownley (CA-26) 8. Mike Capuano (MA-07) 9. Andre Carson (IN-07) 10. Kathy Castor (FL-14) 11. David Cicilline (RI-01) 12. Katherine M. Clark (MA-05) 13. Yvette Clarke ((NY-09) 14. William Lacy Clay ((MO-01) 15. Steve Cohen (TN-09) 16. Joe Courtney (CT-02) 17. Charlie Crist (FL-13) 18. Joe Crowley (NY-14) 19. Danny Davis (IL-07) 20. Susan Davis (CA-53) 21. Peter DeFazio (OR-04) 22. Diana DeGette (CO-01) 23. John Delaney (MD-06) 24. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) 25. Suzan DelBene (WA-01) 26. Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) 27. Debbie Dingell (MI-12) 28. Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) 29. Keith Ellison (MN-05) 30. Eliot Engel (NY-16) 31. Anna Eshoo (CA-18) 32. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) 33. Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) 34. Jimmy Gomez (CA-34) 35. Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) 36. Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01) 37. Denny Heck (WA-10) 38. Brian Higgins (NY-26) 39. Jared Huffman (CA-02) 40. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) 41. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) 42. Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) 43. Bill Keating (MA-09) 44. Joe Kennedy (MA-04) 45. Ro Khanna (CA-17) 46. Derek Kilmer (WA-06) 47. Ann Kuster (NH-02) 48. James R. Langevin (RI-02) 49. John Larson (CT-01) * 50. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) 51. Barbara Lee (CA-13) 52. Sander Levin (MI-09) 53. John Lewis (GA-05) 54. Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) 55. Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) 56. Michelle Lujan Grisham (NM-01) 57. Stephen Lynch (MA-08) 58. Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) 59. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) 60. Betty McCollum (MN-04) 61. Donald McEachin (VA-04) 62. James P. McGovern (MA-02) 63. Jerry McNerney (CA-09) 64. Doris Matsui (CA-06) 65. Gwen Moore (WI-04) 66. Seth Moulton (MA-06) 67. Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) 68. Grace F. Napolitano (CA-32) 69. Richard E. Neal (MA-01) 70. Richard Nolan (MN-08) 71. Donald Norcross (NJ-01) 72. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-Del) 73. Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) 74. Frank Pallone (NJ-06) 75. Jimmy Panetta (CA-20) 76. Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) 77. Collin Peterson (MN-07) 78. Chellie Pingree (ME-01) 79. Mark Pocan (WI-02) 80. Jared Polis (CO-02) 81. David Price (NC-04) 82. Jamie Raskin (MD-08) 83. Kathleen M. Rice (NY-04) 84. Jacky Rosen (NV-03) 85. Tim Ryan (OH-13) 86. Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (MP-Del) 87. John Sarbanes (MD-03) 88. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) 89. Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) 90. José E. Serrano (NY-15) 91. Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) 92. Brad Sherman (CA-30) 93. Albio Sires (NJ-08) 94. Louise Slaugher (NY-25) 95. Adam Smith (WA-09) 96. Jackie Speier (CA-14) 97. Tom Suozzi (NY-03) 98. Eric Swalwell (CA-15) 99. Mark Takano (CA-41) 100. Mike Thompson (CA-05) 101. Paul Tonko (NY-20) 102. Niki Tsongas (MA-03) 103. Nydia Velazquez (NY-07) 104. Pete Visclosky (IN-01) 105. Tim Walz (MN-01) 106. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) 107. Maxine Waters (CA-43) 108. Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) 109. Peter Welch (VT-AL) 110. John Yarmuth (KY-03) * Congressman Larson signed on as a cosponsor prior to the January 16 announcement ###
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – January 22, 2018 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today after voting in favor of H.R.195, legislation funding the operations of the federal government through February 8. “In September, every House Democrat voted for the Continuing Resolution giving the President and the Congressional Leadership 90 days to agree on 2018 funding for the federal government. “Since then, Congress has approved three more CRs. “Today’s vote ends the shutdown and extends funding for the federal government through February 8, providing another three weeks for Congress and the White House to come up with spending levels for the rest of the year. “Congressional Republicans have made a commitment to hold votes on a number of key issues, that they have so far refused to consider. “I think Democrats are right to be skeptical – the GOP leaders have made promises they haven’t kept – but we’ll take our colleagues at their word one more time. “We expect the Speaker to give us votes on issues critical to the country, which have historically been bipartisan priorities: • government spending plan that better balances domestic priorities with defense spending • full funding for Community Health Centers • providing the necessary Disaster Relief to our fellow citizens in regions hit hard by hurricanes, floods, and fires • And fixing DACA to protect Dreamers; there are at least 3 different proposals for dealing with the Dreamers, and I think the House should have an up-or-down vote on each one. “We will hold Congressional Republicans to their promises. “Moreover, Members of Congress have a responsibility to take a stand – a publicly recorded vote – on each of these issues. Only then will the American People be able to see who’s playing straight with them – and who’s not." ###
01.22.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following information about the impact that the partial shutdown of the federal government will have. Frequently Asked Questions Will I continue to receive my Social Security and SSI checks? During a government shutdown, recipients will continue to receive their Social Security and SSI checks. However, a shutdown suspends the issuance of Social Security cards. On a typical day, approximately 60,000 Americans apply for Social Security cards, which they may need to be able to start a job, take out a loan, open a bank account, or conduct other financial transactions. During a shutdown, no Social Security cards are issued. Will my mail still arrive? Yes. The approximately 500,000 Postal Service employees are exempt from furlough because the Postal Service is self-funded. What is the impact on veterans’ services? During a government shutdown, all VA medical facilities and clinics will remain fully operational. However, VA call centers and hotlines cease to function, and Veterans Benefits Administration public contact services are not available. In addition, the 2013 16-day shutdown stopped progress in reducing veterans’ disability claims backlog, which had previously been progressing at a rate of almost 20,000 claims per week. In addition, during the 2013 16-day shutdown, many veterans lost access to vocational rehabilitation and education counseling services. Will I still be able to visit the national parks and monuments? During the 2013 16-day shutdown, national parks, national monuments, and the Smithsonian museums were closed. However, the Trump Administration has announced that it will work to keep national parks “as accessible as possible” in the event of a shutdown. Officials have said that the anticipated plan is to keep many national parks open for hiking, wildlife watching, snowshoeing and cross-country skiing. Open-air parks and monuments in Washington, D.C. will remain open. However, other services that require National Park Service staff, including campgrounds and concessions, will be closed. How will the shutdown affect FEMA natural disaster clean-up efforts? It’s unclear how ongoing FEMA recovery efforts in Texas, Florida, California, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands from recent hurricanes and wildfires will be impacted. FEMA staff would still respond to emergencies, but the Trump Administration has not clarified how many workers, if any, would continue with long-term projects. What is the impact on U.S. military personnel? The Defense Department issued guidance on January 20 saying that in the event of a shutdown, “Military personnel on active duty, including reserve component personnel on federal active duty, will continue to report for duty and carry out assigned duties.” Regarding their pay, the Washington Post reports, “There would be no gap in their pay unless the shutdown lasted past February 1, and otherwise they would continue on the job without getting paid until the shutdown ended or until Congress and the President agreed to cover their costs before it ended. The last time the government shut down, in 2013, the military remained on the job and legislation to pay service members during the shutdown was signed by President Obama.” What is the impact on small businesses? A shutdown halts federal loans to small businesses. During a shutdown, the Small Business Administration stops approving applications for small businesses to obtain loans and loan guarantees, typically $1 billion per month. During the 2013 16-day shutdown, the SBA was unable to process about 700 applications for $140 million in small business loans. What is the impact on federal housing loans? During a shutdown, the Federal Housing Administration stops approving applications for housing loans. During the 2013 16-day shutdown, the FHA delayed processing over 500 applications for loans to develop, rehabilitate, or refinance around 80,000 units of multifamily rental housing. What is the impact on medical research? During a shutdown, NIH shuts down most medical research taking place on its campus in Maryland, prevents the enrollment of patients in NIH Clinical Center studies, and stops reviewing medical research grant applications and making or renewing research grants. What is the impact on the Centers for Disease Control? During a shutdown, CDC has to greatly curtail its activities to conduct flu season surveillance and monitoring, promote immunization, support state and local health departments, and update disease treatment and prevention recommendations. What is the impact on food safety activities? During a shutdown, the FDA is unable to support the majority of its food safety activities. The 2013 16-day shutdown sharply curtailed critical FDA food safety inspections of domestic and international food facilities. Which federal employees keep working during a government shutdown? When there is a government shutdown, federal agencies are required to classify their employees as either “essential” or “non-essential.” The employees classified as “essential” continue to work during the shutdown. However, the employees classified as “non-essential” are put on unpaid furlough. In the 2013 16-day shutdown, about 800,000 of the 2.1 million civilian federal employees in the executive branch were classified as “non-essential” and furloughed. Do furloughed federal employees get back pay? That is up to the Congress and White House. The precedent has been that furloughed employees are later paid, through enactment of legislation. For example, that was done in the most recent shutdown in 2013. This information was compiled by House Democratic Leadership staff.
01.16.2018	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced the names of the Members of Congress who have asked to cosponsor his legislation to reject the FCC’s order to end the Open Internet and eliminate Net Neutrality.The following Members of the US House of Representatives have agreed to cosponsor Congressman Doyle’s legislation to save Net Neutrality (updated 1/18/2018): Don S. Beyer, Jr. (VA-08) Sanford Bishop (GA-02) Earl Blumenauer (OR-03) Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01) Madeleine Bordallo (GU-Del) Mike Capuano (MA-07) Andre Carson (IN-07) Kathy Castor (FL-14) David Cicilline (RI-01) Steve Cohen (TN-09) Joe Courtney (CT-02) Charlie Crist (FL-13) Joe Crowley (NY-14) Danny Davis (IL-07) Susan Davis (CA-53) Peter DeFazio (OR-04) Diana DeGette (CO-01) John Delaney (MD-06) Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) Suzan DelBene (WA-01) Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11) Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) Keith Ellison (MN-05) Anna Eshoo (CA-18) Adriano Espaillat (NY-13) Tulsi Gabbard (HI-02) Jimmy Gomez (CA-34) Raul Grijalva (AZ-03) Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01) Denny Heck (WA-10) Jared Huffman (CA-02) Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18) Marcy Kaptur (OH-09) Bill Keating (MA-09) Joe Kennedy (MA-04) Ro Khanna (CA-17) Ann Kuster (NH-02) James R. Langevin (RI-02) John Larson (CT-01) Brenda Lawrence (MI-14) Barbara Lee (CA-13) Sander Levin (MI-09) John Lewis (GA-05) Zoe Lofgren (CA-19) Alan Lowenthal (CA-47) Stephen Lynch (MA-08) Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18) Betty McCollum (MN-04) Donald McEachin (VA-04) James P. McGovern (MA-02) Jerry McNerney (CA-09) Doris Matsui (CA-06) Gwen Moore (WI-04) Seth Moulton (MA-06) Jerrold Nadler (NY-10) Richard E. Neal (MA-01) Richard Nolan (MN-08) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC-Del) Beto O’Rourke (TX-16) Frank Pallone (NJ-06) Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) Collin Peterson (MN-07) Chellie Pingree (ME-01) Mark Pocan (WI-02) Jared Polis (CO-02) David Price (NC-04) Jamie Raskin (MD-08) Jacky Rosen (NV-03) Tim Ryan (OH-13) John Sarbanes (MD-03) Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (VA-03) José E. Serrano (NY-15) Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) Brad Sherman (CA-30) Albio Sires (NJ-08) Louise Slaugher (NY-25) Adam Smith (WA-09) Jackie Speier (CA-14) Tom Suozzi (NY-03) Mark Takano (CA-41) Mike Thompson (CA-05) Paul Tonko (NY-20) Niki Tsongas (MA-03) Nydia Velazquez (NY-07) Pete Visclosky (IN-01) Tim Walz (MN-01) Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) Maxine Waters (CA-43) Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) Peter Welch (VT-AL) John Yarmuth (KY-03) “We’ve made good progress so far in getting Members to sign on as original cosponsors of our bill to restore Net Neutrality, and I will continue to seek additional cosponsors in the weeks ahead,” Congressman Doyle said in releasing the list of names. “There’s overwhelming public support for preserving Net Neutrality, so it’s no surprise that there’s strong support in Congress as well. I’m confident that if there’s enough public pressure, Congress will overturn the FCC’s order killing net neutrality.” On December 14, 2017, the Federal Communications Commission voted along party lines to reverse the Open Internet Order, which regulated Internet Service Providers (ISPs) in order to ensure net neutrality. Later that day, Congressman Doyle announced that he would introduce legislation in the House to overrule the FCC’s action, and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) announced that he would do the same in the Senate. Under the Congressional Review Act, members of the House and Senate can offer a joint resolution of disapproval on any regulation recently issued by a federal agency. Such legislation can’t be introduced, however, before the regulation is “received by Congress.” “Senator Markey announced today that they have 50 cosponsors in the Senate, and we hope to mirror their efforts in the House,” Congressman Doyle added. “The FCC’s repeal of the Open Internet Order gutted net neutrality, abdicated the FCC’s stewardship over critical communications networks, and recast the public interest in terms of what matters to Wall Street, not to Main Street, and it will hinder rather than help any efforts to close the digital divide,” observed Representative Anna Eshoo (CA-18). “I’m proud to be an original cosponsor of the CRA to demonstrate to millions of Americans that reliable, net-neutral broadband should indeed be protected.” “People, not corporations, should decide what we can say and do online,” Representative Paul Tonko (NY-20) stated. “For the sake of Americans’ freedom of speech and the future competitiveness of our country’s innovation economy, we should not accept anything less than full net neutrality protections. I am proud to join my friend Congressman Doyle in exercising the Congressional Review Act to restore these essential open Internet protections.” Congressman Danny K. Davis (IL-07) said, “My constituents are livid with the mere thought of diminishing access to the benefits of net neutrality. Everybody should have the opportunity to experience the benefits of net neutrality.” “America has led in the digital age in large part because of a free and open internet, but we won’t remain at the top by adopting backward policies that hurt consumers,” Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (WA-01) said. “Given the opportunity after the FCC’s decision to repeal net neutrality, internet service providers could block content and services or charge premiums for the kind of open access we’ve come to expect. I strongly oppose the FCC’s decision, and will continue working alongside my colleagues to protect consumers and innovators.” “I am supporting a Congressional Review Act Resolution from Rep. Doyle to overturn the FCC vote and put net neutrality back in place,” Representative Ro Khanna (CA-17) said. “I refuse to let the founding principles of the internet die, not on our watch. I encourage everyone to call their representatives and ask them to support as well. The free and open internet has been an engine of innovation and creativity for decades. We need to make sure that it stays that way for the future.” “A free and open internet safeguards free speech, puts consumers first, and protects small businesses and innovators,” Representative Carolyn Maloney (NY-12) said. “But last month, the FCC voted to repeal the net neutrality rules that protect the free and open internet we know today. I’m proud to join my colleagues in this effort to roll back the FCC's harmful decision and am pleased to support Rep. Doyle’s bill to keep our Net Neutrality protections in place.” “Net neutrality is essential to keeping the Internet open, affordable, and innovative. The Trump administration’s repeal of net neutrality undermines these key principles and hurts American consumers, which is why I am proud to join House and Senate Democrats co-sponsoring legislation to uphold net neutrality,” Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) said. “I urge my Republican colleagues to join us, overturn the FCC’s misguided decision, and save the free and open Internet.” “A free and open internet is integral to a free and open society,” said Congressman Tim Walz (MN-01). “Net neutrality keeps consumers in charge of what websites they have access to, and prevents large corporations from becoming internet gatekeepers and slowing down browsing and streaming speeds. This resolution is the right step to overturn the misguided decision FCC Chair Ajit Pai made in moving to tear down net neutrality.” “A two-tiered net could mean a fast lane for some and a dirt road for others,” Representative Lloyd Doggett (TX-35) said. “It could strangle competition, impose exorbitant fees on consumers and small businesses, and threaten free speech. This resolution represents the one way to preserve freedom and accessibility for all.” “We have to do everything we can to protect Net Neutrality and stop the FCC rollback – we’re talking about free speech, fair access, and a level playing field for small businesses,” said Representative Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-18). “The CRA flips the script on Congressional Republicans who used the same tactic last year to get rid of important internet privacy protections – and what’s good for the goose is good for the gander.”“Net neutrality prevents large corporations from deciding what Americans see online while safeguarding free speech and enabling our thriving digital economy. The Federal Communications Commission’s recent vote put these protections on the verge of extinction. I’m proud to cosponsor this legislation as we work to reverse this disastrous decision. An issue as important as this should be decided by Congress,” said Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-25). “Rolling back Title II net neutrality protections will inhibit the free flow of information that is a critical part of our democracy,” said Representative Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01). “The FCC has failed the American people. The Senate has a record number of cosponsors and, working together, Congress can and must step up to keep the internet fair and open.” “The threat posed by the FCC’s actions to overturn Net Neutrality endangers free speech, democracy and a growing internet economy,” said Representative Adam Smith (WA-09). “I am proud to support a legislative fix to the FCC’s unjust ruling.” “The internet has fueled innovation, entrepreneurship, activism and progress,” Congresswoman Barbara Lee (CA-13) observed. “It has provided a platform for groundbreaking ideas and social change – especially for communities of color. I am deeply concerned that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) December vote to undo Open Internet rules will put this progress at risk. That is why I am proud to support this Congressional Review Act resolution of disapproval to overturn the FCC vote and protect net neutrality.” “A free and open internet is essential to the free flow of ideas, creativity, participatory democracy, and commerce,” said Rep. Welch (VT-AL). “The FCC’s decision to gut net neutrality protections is bad for consumers and entrepreneurs, and a gift to big telecom companies, who will be able to pick and choose who gets access to the internet and at what speed. I am proud to cosponsor this legislation which will reverse this horrible decision so that the internet remains open and accessible to all Americans.” “This administration’s reckless decision to repeal net neutrality gives internet service providers the ability to stack the deck against hardworking families and small businesses who could be forced to pay more to connect to an internet with slower speeds,” said Representative Jacky Rosen (NV-03). “This resolution would reverse the FCC’s misguided ruling, which places large corporate profits ahead of people, and restore access to a free and open internet for all. I’m proud to join my colleagues in supporting Rep. Doyle’s resolution and will continue to fight for net neutrality.” “In the 21st century, a free and open Internet is the key to American entrepreneurship and innovation,” Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23) said. “Unfortunately, Donald Trump’s FCC is actively undermining the rules of the Internet that we’ve all come to rely upon. It’s part of this Administration’s pattern of siding with giant corporations over hardworking families – and this legislation is a major step in returning power back into the hands of all Americans.” “We can’t stand by as the FCC and big corporations steal our right to equal access to the Internet,” said Congresswoman Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01). “I am cosponsoring this resolution because we need to reverse the FCC’s shameful repeal of net neutrality protections. The FCC’s decision will allow Internet service providers to favor big businesses over startups, hurting New Hampshire innovators; it needs to be stopped.” “Americans expect and deserve an internet that is free, neutral, and open to all. Reversing the FCC’s disastrous vote is an essential step in the fight for net neutrality. Thousands of my constituents have asked me to fight on their behalf for net neutrality, and I am proud to do so by joining many of my colleagues on this piece of legislation," said Congressman Donald McEachin (VA-04). “An open Internet is an empowering, enabling platform, one that allows communities across the country to fulfill their economic and educational potential," said Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13). "I stand firm in my belief that the Internet should remain open and available to all Americans, regardless of their class, status, or geographic location. I am proud to join Rep. Doyle and our congressional colleagues as a cosponsor on this legislation to reject the FCC’s decision to end the open Internet and eliminate net neutrality. We vow to continue our efforts to stand with net neutrality supporters in communities around the nation and will fight to ensure first amendment rights for all." “The simple fact is, net neutrality is fundamental to our democracy,” Representative Rick Nolan (MN-08) stated. “Huge corporations shouldn’t have the power to decide what specific websites you can see or what your loading speeds will be. We will keep fighting here in Congress to protect consumers and reinstate net neutrality.” Representative Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12) said today, “The basic principle of net neutrality is simple: anyone should be able to access any website or web service they want equally — that anyone can make their own website and make it accessible to anyone with internet access. Unfortunately, the FCC’s latest decision to torpedo net neutrality protections is a tremendous blow to free and fair internet. The reaction against the FCC decision has been overwhelming from Central Jersey and across the nation, and Congress has a responsibility to exercise our duty to review dangerous and misguided decisions like this one. I am proud to join Representative Doyle in a bipartisan bicameral effort to stand with my constituents to oppose this ruling.” “A free and open internet is an indispensable part of American life. The recent vote to repeal net neutrality is a glaring example of the Republican Party siding with multinational corporations and big business over the American people. Shame on them for going against the will of the people with such wanton disregard for how this policy will impact their lives. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this legislation to restore net neutrality regulations, and protect the net,” said Congressman Tim Ryan (OH-13). “The FCC’s recent vote to overturn the 2015 rules on Net Neutrality flew right in the face of the will of the American people, who strongly believe in a free and open internet. Overturning these rules harm underserved minority communities the most, including those I represent in the South Bronx, by limiting access to education and training benefits, employment and business opportunities, news and cultural content, and the ability to connect with loved ones near and far. Access to the internet is not a luxury, it a basic need in today’s world. A fair and open access to the internet is essential to our way of life and to our economy. That is why we must continue fighting to overturn the FCC’s recent actions and protect Net Neutrality,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (NY-15). “Educational opportunities, community networking and free speech rights will all be compromised by gatekeepers in a pay-to-play internet,” said Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01). “This measure will nullify the unfortunate rule passed by the FCC under Chairman Ajit Pai which, if left unopposed, will encourage the ‘cable-ization’ of the internet.” “Net neutrality protections enable the free flow of ideas and open new economic opportunities for millions of Americans,” said Congressman Jerry McNerney (CA-09). “The Chairman’s push to eliminate these protections has put us on a dangerous path backward, and it is critical that Congress reverse this ill-conceived action. I’m proud to join Congressman Doyle in this effort.” “Since FCC Chairman Ajit Pai first proposed to rollback net neutrality protections, I’ve heard from thousands of my constituents who are deeply opposed to the FCC’s actions,” Representative Denny Heck (WA-10) said. “I share their concerns, and I believe it’s vital Congress acts to reject the FCC’s approach and reinstate the 2015 open-internet rules. We must protect this basic tenet of the internet which allows our small businesses to compete in the global marketplace, helps our students receive a 21st century education regardless of their means, and spurs innovation.” “The message I’ve heard from thousands of Granite Staters has been abundantly clear, Congress should overturn the FCC’s misguided proposal to repeal net neutrality protections,” said Congresswoman Ann Kuster (NH-02). “It is imperative that New Hampshire consumers and small businesses are able to maintain the freedom to access internet services without obstruction from Internet Service Providers. To compete in a 21st Century economy, we must ensure that the internet allows for a free exchange of ideas, and this common sense legislation would pave the way for a simple up or down vote in Congress to restore net neutrality protections for all Americans.” “The internet should remain open and accessible for all, and that’s why I strongly support this effort to stop the repeal of net neutrality,” said Congressman Sander Levin (MI-09). “I strongly condemned the FCC’s decision last month to ignore the will of the American people and repeal net neutrality rules that preserve a free and open Internet,” said Congressman Jim Langevin, co-founder and co-chair of the Congressional Cybersecurity Caucus. “This misguided action will give Internet service providers the power to control what consumers see online, undermining the free flow of information. That’s why I am grateful for the leadership of Congressman Doyle in drafting this resolution to overturn the disastrous decision and restore consumer protections online.” “The Trump administration can - and it seems will - repeal all the progress achieved during the Obama administration, but Congress has the last say,” Representative Jared Polis (CO-02) observed. “With the public on our side, we must draw a line and protect the internet as we know it, preserving net neutrality. To compete in the global economy, we need an internet that allows for the free exchange of ideas, not an internet that can be bought by the highest bidder.” ###
12.19.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement after the House voted 227 – 203 today to approve the final version of H.R 1, the GOP’s $1.5 trillion tax bill."I voted against the Republican bill cutting more than a trillion dollars in taxes for corporations and the rich – and putting the burden of paying for it on the middle class, the poor, and our grandchildren. "Under the GOP tax bill, more than 80 percent of the cuts will go to households making more than $5 million a year. That’s no Middle Class tax cut. "But there are many other reasons behind my vote against this misguided bill: • it will actually raise taxes on most Middle Class households after a few short years, with more than half of all taxpayers - 86 million households - paying more; • it won’t raise wages; • it gives a new tax break to corporations for shipping US jobs overseas; • it will cause a $25 billion cut in Medicare next year; and • it will cause federal budget deficits to explode, increasing the national debt by more than $1.5 trillion. "Enactment of the Republican tax bill will leave most households worse off in the long run. Their tax cuts will be replaced with tax increases, and Republicans plan to use the increased national debt as justification to cut programs like Medicare and Medicaid that most Americans rely on. "Moreover, rather than providing the greatest tax relief to families who need it the most – who will pump that money right back into the economy – the GOP tax bill provides the lion’s share of its tax cuts to corporations and the households that are the most well off. "This tax bill is a scam perpetrated on the American People by Republicans in Congress and the White House. When the American People discover what this bill really does, they will hold those who are responsible for it accountable. "I will continue to work in Congress to curb these unsustainable giveaways to corporations and the rich – and to redirect federal resources to the millions of families who are struggling to get by. They’re the ones who need and deserve tax relief and adequately funded federal programs like Medicare and Medicaid." ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Ryan Costello (R-PA), both members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, introduced the bipartisan Energy Storage Tax Incentive and Deployment Act of 2017. This bill, H.R. 4649, would establish a separate investment tax credit (ITC) for energy storage infrastructure for utilities, businesses, and homes. The legislation is cosponsored by Representative Mark Takano (D-CA). “This legislation encourages the use of emerging energy storage technologies and incorporating them into the electric grid. Energy storage technologies are critical to the increased adoption of renewable energy and the improvement of electric grid resilience,” said Congressman Doyle. “This bipartisan bill will facilitate greater investment and research in energy storage technologies, bolster the advanced energy economy, and support clean energy jobs across Pennsylvania.” “Supporting and encouraging the use of innovative energy technologies can help lower energy costs and improve grid resiliency. When paired with recent advancements in clean and renewable energy choices, energy storage can strengthen the security of our electric grid, offer consumers greater choice, and lower the cost of energy bills,” said Representative Costello. Energy storage systems often serve as complementary reserves to renewable resources like wind and solar power. They can provide backup power and also help lower costs for electricity during peak demand, when energy is most expensive. Energy storage ultimately makes our electric grid more sustainable and resilient, and can help provide power when we need it most – like the hottest afternoons or cold snaps in winter. Additionally, energy storage systems are integral to increasing deployment of advanced grid technologies and enhancing the operation of all types of generating resources. The Energy Storage Tax Incentive and Deployment Act of 2017 is modeled on the existing investment tax credits for solar energy and can apply to large, utility-scale energy storage projects or smaller battery systems for residential use. The current tax code allows an ITC for energy storage when it is installed in conjunction with a solar energy system; this bill would extend the ITC for energy storage investments in a wider range of applications and provide greater clarity and assurance to prospective investors. This legislation is a companion to S.1868, an identical, bipartisan bill introduced in the Senate by Senators Heinrich (D-NM) and Heller (R-NV) earlier this year. ###
12.14.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14), the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, joined a number of other Members of Congress in condemning the Federal Communications Commission’s vote today to kill the Open Internet Order, which guarantees Net Neutrality. Representatives Anna Eshoo (D-CA-18), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR-01), Ro Khanna (D-CA-17), Richard M. Nolan (D-MN-08), Paul Tonko (D-NY-20), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-09), Jerry McNerney (D-CA-09), Carolyn Maloney (D-NY-12), Betty McCollum (D-MN-04), and Peter Welch (D-VT-AL) joined Congressman Doyle in condemning the FCC’s action and announcing their intention to introduce legislation to overturn the “Restoring Internet Freedom” order the Commission adopted with that vote. Companion legislation will be introduced in the Senate by Senator Ed Markey (D-MA). “The Open Internet Order has been effective at preserving a level playing field where consumers have access to the content and services they want – and online businesses are able to compete on the basis of cost and quality of their product rather than how much they can pay Internet Service Providers to block or throttle their competition,” Congressman Doyle said in response to the FCC vote. “I’ve tried repeatedly to convince Chairman Pai to abandon his plans to dismantle the Open Internet Order – most recently by organizing a letter from 118 Members of Congress urging him not to take this vote today – and now that the FCC has voted to kill Net Neutrality and give ISPs a green light to control access to the Internet, I will introduce legislation under the Congressional Review Act to overturn today’s order and restore Net Neutrality.” “It’s clear that the Chairman’s idea to destroy the free and open Internet has been rejected in the court of public opinion, with tens of millions of Americans weighing in,” Representative Eshoo said. “As representatives of those millions, it is our responsibility to fight this march to folly. I’m proud to join my fellow Members of Congress on this CRA as we continue this new battle in the ongoing fight for net neutrality.” “Protecting net neutrality creates a level playing field for consumers, innovators, and small businesses,” Representative Bonamici observed. “Rolling back Title II protections will be detrimental to the free flow of information that underpins our democracy. The FCC has failed the American people and Congress must step up to keep the internet fair and open.” “With this vote today, the FCC has taken away our free and open internet,” Representative Khanna said. “I refuse to let the founding principles of the internet die, not on our watch. I am supporting a Congressional Review Act Resolution from Rep. Doyle to overturn this vote and put net neutrality back in place. I encourage everyone to call their representatives and ask them to support as well. The free and open internet has been an engine of innovation and creativity for decades. We need to make sure that it stays that way for the future.” “Today, the FCC chose to repeal net neutrality – handing huge corporations the power to block consumers from certain websites and slow down their internet speeds,” Representative Nolan said. “It’s grossly unfair to consumers and small businesses, and we’re going to fight to reinstate net neutrality protections every step of the way.” “The entire Net Neutrality repeal process has been a disaster and it must be reversed,” Representative Tonko said. “Instead of working to strengthen consumer protections and serve the American people, FCC’s current leadership voted to downsize their rights, jeopardize the future of the open Internet, and hand a huge win to giant corporations. Even the public comment process for this decision was corrupted with thousands of fraudulent comments submitted using stolen identities and information. Several of my own constituents’ deceased family members’ identities were used in advancing this charade. The FCC’s decision to repeal Net Neutrality under these conditions was illegitimate and Congress has a responsibility to protect the American people, reverse the Net Neutrality repeal and demand the truth from the FCC about troubling abuses that were committed during their rule-making process.” “Ending net neutrality undermines the free and open Internet. Today’s FCC decision is yet another example of how Republicans are padding the pockets of big corporations at the expense of consumers and small businesses,” Representative McCollum said. “Congress should now overturn this new rule, preserve net neutrality, and save the internet. I am proud to co-sponsor Representative Doyle’s legislation to do just that.” “Repealing Net Neutrality is the opposite of President Trump’s promise to drain the swamp,” said Congresswoman Kaptur. “Instead, the Trump Administration is taking America backward on key consumer protections and safeguards against corporate overreach. I have heard from citizens across Northern Ohio who have made their voices clear. They support Net Neutrality, and they support an internet that is open and free from overt meddling by big corporations to juice their profits. Congress must protect Net Neutrality.” “A free and open internet safeguards free speech, puts consumers first, and protects small businesses and innovators,” Representative Maloney said. “But today, the FCC voted to repeal the net neutrality rules that protect the free and open internet we know today. I’m proud to join my colleagues in this effort to roll back the FCC's harmful decision and am pleased to support Rep. Doyle’s bill to keep our Net Neutrality protections in place.” “Today’s decision by the Commission sets us on a dangerous path backwards,” said Congressman McNerney. “Net neutrality protections are essential for ensuring that the internet serves as a forum for the free flow of information and a gateway for economic opportunity. I’m proud to join Congressman Doyle to push to reverse this drastic action.” “Today’s decision to gut net neutrality is a disaster for consumers and an early Christmas present to big broadband companies who can now pick and choose who gets access to the internet and at what speed,” Representative Welch said. “I am proud to cosponsor this legislation which will reverse this horrible decision so that the internet remains open and accessible to all Americans.” ###
12.13.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14), the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, announced today that he and 117 other Members of Congress had sent a letter to the Federal Communications Commission urging the Commissioners NOT to vote on FCC Chairman Ajit Pai’s “Restoring Internet Freedom Order” at the Commission’s scheduled meeting tomorrow. Chairman Pai recently released this proposed regulation and announced that it would be voted on at the FCC’s December 14 meeting. Congressman Doyle, many Members of Congress, and millions of Americans support Net Neutrality and oppose Chairman Pai’s “Restoring Internet Freedom Order, which would repeal the Open Internet Order, which regulates Internet Service Providers (ISPs) under Title II of the Communications Act and protects Net Neutrality. Congressman Doyle believes that Net Neutrality rules protect consumers who use the internet, promote competition among online business service providers, and encourage innovation and entrepreneurship – all leading to increased economic growth and improved standards of living. He believes that if the FCC’s Net Neutrality rules are eliminated, Internet Service Providers with block or throttle content, provide faster transmission to businesses that pay them more (“paid prioritization”), and charge consumers more for a number of internet services. He believes that the “Restoring Internet Freedom” Order is profoundly anti-competition and ant-consumer. Congressman Doyle organized the letter to the FCC urging the Commission to delay its vote on the Restoring Internet Freedom Order – in other words, to not vote on the draft order tomorrow. He announced yesterday that if the FCC does vote to adopt the Restoring Internet Freedom Order tomorrow, he would introduce legislation to overturn it. Click here to see the text of the letter and the list of signers. ###
12.12.2017	Washington, DC – December 12, 2017 –, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14), the Ranking Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, announced today that he would introduce legislation to reverse FCC regulations to kill the Open Internet Order if the FCC votes to proceed with those regulations at its scheduled meeting on Thursday, December 14. “Net Neutrality is essential for promoting innovation, competition, and economic growth on the Internet,” Congressman Doyle said earlier today in announcing his plans. “The Open Internet Order, which currently protects Net Neutrality, was adopted only after years of efforts by Internet Service Providers to circumvent previous net neutrality rules in order to stop potential competitors and extract greater profits from their choke-hold on the “last mile” connecting consumers to online services. All you have to do is look at what went on over the last 10 or 15 years to see how the ISPs repeatedly sought to crush potential competitors and challenged the FCC’s previous Net Neutrality rules in court to understand why the Open Internet Order was needed – and to see what will happen if the Open Internet Order is repealed. “I was a vocal advocate for strong Net Neutrality rules for years before that, and I strongly supported the Open Internet Order when it was proposed in 2015,” Congressman Doyle added. “This year, I’ve been a vocal opponent of FCC Chairman Pai’s misnamed “Restoring Internet Freedom Order,” which would repeal the Open Internet Order and abdicate the FCC’s responsibility to ensure the kind of real competition that would increase Broadband speed and capacity, improve customer service, reduce prices, and promote innovation. Today, tens of millions of American homes have only one option for Internet Access. We used to call that a monopoly. Monopolies are notorious for charging high prices, providing lousy customer service, fighting off potential competitors, and stifling innovation and economic growth. The Chairman’s plan could more accurately be called the “Restoring Internet Service Providers’ Freedom Act. Freeing up ISPs to block services, throttle content, and make ‘paid prioritization’ their Internet business model will block competition, throttle innovation, and make customers and online businesses pay more for less. That’s not in the public interest, and it’s perversely contrary to the FCC’s mission.” “The answer to monopolies has always been regulation and competition, and as much as some of the FCC Commissioners don’t want to acknowledge it, Net Neutrality and the regulation of ISPs under Title II are essential for providing real competition in the Broadband marketplace. “I am sending a letter signed by dozens of Members of Congress to the Commissioners tomorrow urging them not to vote on Chairman Pai’s plan to repeal Net Neutrality at their meeting this week. If the FCC does adopt the Chairman’s proposal to repeal the Open Internet Order, I plan to introduce legislation under the Congressional Review Act to overturn the so-called Restoring Internet Freedom Order.” ###
12.06.2017	Washington, DC –U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement announcing the local winners of the Congressional App Challenge. “It’s Computer Science Education Week, and I am pleased to announce the winners of this year’s Congressional App Challenge in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “Congratulations to Nick Zana, Fuad Youssef, Peter Wang, and Henry Friedlander from Shady Side Academy. These students created an app that executes all of the main functions of a planner, student ID, and document database. “I also want to recognize the runners-up. Congratulations to Macen Perkins, Shane O’Malley, Derek Wassel, and Logan Hickey from Montour High School. These students created an app that teaches students coding languages. “Many thanks to the parents and teachers who encouraged these students to participate, the judges who contributed their time and expertise, the University of Pittsburgh which hosted our award reception, and Carnegie Mellon University which will host our winners for a tech-focused tour of campus in the coming weeks. “I believe that the Congressional App Challenge raises public awareness of the importance of quality STEM education programs--while celebrating these programs across the Pittsburgh region. I hope this competition will continue to grow and empower young students to pursue their interest in STEM fields.” ###
12.05.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) spoke about the importance of Net Neutrality at a forum held earlier today at New America in Washington, DC. The complete text of his remarks follows below. “Good morning. I’m pleased to be here today to talk about one of the most important issues before policymakers today. Net Neutrality and its fate is a topic critical to our personal lives, our civil society, and our nation’s economic future. “I’d like to thank the New America Foundation and the Open Technology Institute for hosting this event and putting this excellent panel together. I’d also like to thank our hosts for inviting me to speak to you today. “I, like many of you, have been working on this issue for over a decade. And like many of you, I had hoped that this issue had been resolved by the US Court of Appeals decision last year to uphold the FCC’s rules. However, that’s not the case, and we are once again contemplating the way forward on Net Neutrality – and what an Open Internet means. “Chairman Pai and his allies among the ISPs and conservative think tanks have alleged that the end of the Open Internet really means business as usual – and that the Internet we have come to know and love, or love to hate, will continue to hum along as usual. The Chairman and his allies have said that all they are doing is returning the Internet to a quote un-quote “light touch regulatory framework.” We see this phrase used a lot when describing the proposed changes to the Open Internet order. The Chairman and his allies say that they are returning the Internet to the regulatory framework that allowed it to flourish before Chairman Wheeler put the Open Internet Order in place in 2015. “It sounds reasonable, in a way. Unfortunately, the Chairman, like so many people these days, is dealing in alternative facts. I’d like to correct the record a bit about where we are and how we got here. The history of Net Neutrality and the formation of the Open Internet Order isn’t something that was conjured into existence out of nowhere. “The rules that Tom Wheeler put in place were direct responses to actions taken by ISPs to limit, impede, or interfere with consumers’ broadband experience. To be honest, actions by ISPs are the reason we have Net Neutrality rules at all. Before that, we had rules in place to limit what phone and cable companies could do with the information we entrusted them with – and the services they provided to us. ISP’s anti-consumer and anti-competitive actions over the years are what prompted the FCC to adopt Open Internet Order. “Republicans and Democratic FCC Chairs have recognized these basic facts going back to Chairman Powell in 2004 and his speech about preserving Internet Freedom. He identified four freedoms, the freedom of consumers to access the legal content of their choice, the freedom to run the applications of their choice, the freedom to attach any devices of their choice to the Internet, and meaningful transparency about the their service plans. Pretty basic stuff. Chairman Martin would adopt these four freedoms a year later. Case closed, end of story, the Internet is saved. I honestly wish that’s where this all ended. “The question is what happened to these freedoms, and why weren’t they enough? More to the point, why wasn’t their legal justification under Title One of the Communications Act not enough? “Back in 2005 the Internet was really just the world wide web. Sites like Google, Facebook, and Amazon were still tiny. Most of what the Internet offered didn’t compete with voice and video offerings from the ISPs. But that started to change, and a small company called Vonage started offering Voice over the Internet phone service that directly competed with an ISP’s own offerings. So the ISP blocked Vonage – and claimed that because it owned the network, it was legal for it to block a competing service. VOIP was just blocked. It seems crazy, but to put that into context, ISPs at the time proposed limiting consumer’s ability to use WiFi, calling it theft of service. “The FCC was able to use its authority at the time to resolve Voneage’s issue. But unbeknownst to many, another ISP started blocking the popular peer-to-peer file-sharing protocol Bit Torrent. Thanks to investigations by public interest groups and technical experts this was discovered in 2007. Then-FCC Chairman Kevin Martin tried to sanction the ISP, to try and get it to stop blocking this new technology – but his decision was overturned in federal court. The court found that the Commission lacked the authority under Title One of the Communications Act to enforce its policy statement. “In 2010, under Chairman Genachowski, the FCC was once again faced with how it could prevent what had been considered anti-competitive ISP behavior by both Democratic and Republican FCC Chairs. At the time, several of my colleagues and I, as well as many in the public interest community, called on Chairman Genachowski to reclassify broadband as a Title 2 service in order to give his rules firmer legal footing. “During this time between 2007 and 2009, the iPhone was just hitting the market, and the historically “walled garden” of the mobile internet was starting to crumble. Despite the iPhone’s clear capability, as well that of mobile broadband networks of the time, a major mobile carrier blocked people’s ability to use Skype, Google Voice, and other competing internet phone services on their devices. These services clearly competed with wireless carriers’ own phone services. “I hope some of you are recognizing a pattern here, a pattern of ISPs acting in anti-competitive ways to force consumers to use the ISPs’ more expensive, non-competitive services over those of their new competitors. “In 2010, the FCC adopted actual Open Internet rules, but still using Title One of the Communications Act. And while these rules were a victory, as the panel and many here know, they wouldn’t stand the test of time. “Between 2010 and 2014, ISPs would go on to hijack user’s search queries away from Google, Yahoo, and Bing to the ISPs’ own chosen search providers. Several mobile ISPs blocked access to Google Wallet, Google’s mobile payment service, because they were developing their own competing services. ISPs blocked users from using Apple’s FaceTime calling app. ISPs have and still continue to require users to pay additional fees to share their mobile internet connection with other devices. Another mobile carrier blocked users from streaming video on their devices. “Again and again, we see ISPs blocking new services and applications that compete with them or in any way threaten their business model. “When the courts struck down Genachowski’s rules, the FCC was forced to go back to the drawing board again, under Chairman Wheeler in 2014. At the time Netflix customers were starting to complain that the service was being degraded, and they accused ISPs of deliberately throttling the points of interconnection where a Netflix video crosses from Netflix’s network onto the ISP’s own network. Netflix alleged at the time that ISPs wanted exorbitant fees to end this slow down. At the time, Netflix was a major player in the over the top market, but it was one of only a few that were offering full-run video content that competed for ISP customers. As more consumers were considering cutting the cord and dropping their cable subscriptions, the viability of services like Netflix was a major consideration. If a consumer couldn’t depend on being able to access over the top content, it couldn’t be a viable competitive option. “In the midst of all of this, the FCC again debated the merits of Title Two or Title One as a legal justification for its rules. The fact is, that there just appeared to be no legally sufficient way to enforce rules under Title One. So instead of putting in place un-enforceable rules that would fail again under legal challenge, Chairman Wheeler acted to codify legally enforceable rules meant to address the harms that had occurred and were occurring. “I’m sorry for this historical retelling, but I think it’s important context for where we are and how we got here. “Chairman Pai keeps saying that all he is doing is turning back the clock to 2015, but really he is turning the clock back to zero. The order that he has proposed leaves in place no rules and no authority to address bad behavior. “He claims that the FTC can prevent ISP bad behavior by holding them to their terms and conditions, but ISPs are already scrubbing promises to adhere to Net Neutrality from these agreements – and openly discussing the merits of paid of prioritization and fast lanes. At this moment, the FTC’s jurisdiction over ISPs is in serious legal jeopardy. “I want to take a moment and recap the technologies and services that ISPs have blocked, throttled, or otherwise tried to impede: streaming video from sites like Netflix, Apple’s Facetime, Skype, Google search, mobile payment services, WiFi, peer to peer applications, the mobile internet, and apps. I just want to add that at one point a mobile ISP charged consumers five dollars a month if they wanted to use a mapping application. At the time Google Maps was available for free, but consumers had to use the ISP’s own product and pay for it. “Why am I concerned about a future without Net Neutrality? Because, if the past is any indication, the future is not bright. Consumers, innovators, and competitors are going to get the raw end of the deal. One of the best parts of the Internet ecosystem is that entrepreneurs have the ability to create something new, and make it available to the public. The public can embrace or ignore these innovations as they see fit. So while I may think bit-coin is a crazy bubble or question the utility of the President’s tweets, these are platforms and technologies that are driven by consumer adoption and not by whether some arbitrary gatekeeper sees them as a threat to their current or future business model. “The threat as I see it, is not as great to big businesses like Google, Facebook, and Amazon – although there is a threat to a them; it’s to small companies and new technologies. In Pittsburgh we are leading the way in fields such as artificial intelligence, self-driving vehicles, smart city technologies, and robotics. So many of these technologies live on the Internet and rely on “Always On” connectivity. “My concern is that these new technologies will be the next generation to be impeded and co-opted. Cities like Pittsburgh don’t need our smart cities or self-driving cars brought to us by X or Y ISP. But ISPs are a critical conduit through which these new technologies will function. As we look at what technologies will define the 21st Century, I for one am deeply concerned that the ones we are fostering in my city will be among those threatened by an end to Net Neutrality. “I’m currently circulating a letter to my colleagues in the House, asking Chairman Pai to delay voting on order to repeal the Open Internet Rules. As advocates, experts, and grassroots organizers, I encourage you to reach out to Members of the House and ask them to join me in calling for a delay. “Regardless of what happens on December 14th, this fight is not over. As so many of you have done before and will continue to do, we will continue to bring to light this issue and work for strong enforceable rules that protect consumers, protect innovation, protect free speech, and protect the free and open internet. “Again thank you for inviting me, and I hope this panel has a fruitful discussion.” ###
11.21.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai’s announcement that the Commission would vote to begin the process of removing Title II status for internet service at its December 14 meeting. “Today Chairman Pai began his final assault on the Open Internet Order and Net Neutrality. His announcement today of plans to repeal Title 2 is another nail in the coffin of the FCC rules that protect consumers, competition, and innovation. Chairman Pai’s agenda has been an unending stream of giveaways to major corporations and Trump allies. Consumers, small businesses, and the most vulnerable amongst us have consistently gotten shafted by this Chairman and the Trump Administration. “I am disappointed and angry that, despite the evidence, despite court decisions, despite widespread bipartisan public support for a free and open Internet, and despite 22 MILLION comments overwhelmingly in support of Net Neutrality, Chairman Pai today has announced his intentions to repeal the Open Internet Order.” ###
11.20.2017	Washington, DC – Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (CA-12), Energy and Commerce Committee Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-6), and Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Ranking Member Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following letter to each of the Members of the Federal Communications Commission. The letter urges the Commissioners to comply with existing federal law by enforcing the statutory national cap on ownership of broadcast stations. The letter states “We write to remind the Commission that it is prohibited from allowing any single company to own broadcast stations that break the national ownership cap. To comply with the law, the Commission is required to order divestitures in any transaction in which a company—including Sinclair Broadcast Group (Sinclair)—attempts to acquire stations that reach more than 39% of the national broadcast audience. If the Commission fails to comply with the law now, future Commissions will be forced to order such divestitures when the company requests to renew licenses that exceed the statutory cap.” The full text of the letter follows below: November 20, 2017 The Honorable Ajit V. Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 The Honorable Mignon Clyburn Commissioner Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 The Honorable Mike O’Rielly Commissioner Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 The Honorable Brendan Carr Commissioner Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 The Honorable Jessica Rosenworcel Commissioner Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Pai, Commissioner Clyburn, Commissioner O’Rielly, Commissioner Carr and Commissioner Rosenworcel: We write to remind the Commission that it is prohibited from allowing any single company to own broadcast stations that break the national ownership cap. To comply with the law, the Commission is required to order divestitures in any transaction in which a company—including Sinclair Broadcast Group (Sinclair)—attempts to acquire stations that reach more than 39% of the national broadcast audience. If the Commission fails to comply with the law now, future Commissions will be forced to order such divestitures when the company requests to renew licenses that exceed the statutory cap. Congress acted in 2004 to set the maximum national audience reach for entities owning TV stations at 39 percent. Congress passed this law on a bipartisan basis to protect consumers, encourage independent voices in their media market, and prevent one station group from serving more than 39% of the population. By explicitly excluding review of the cap from the Congressionally-mandated quadrennial review of broadcast ownership rules, we made clear that the FCC is not permitted to change or evade that national cap. Commissioner O’Rielly correctly testified at a recent FCC oversight hearing that only Congress can change the cap. As Commissioner O’Rielly also rightly noted, Congress did not intend to allow a company to circumvent the cap using outdated rules such as the UHF discount. His reading of the law is consistent with the position of at least two other sitting Commissioners. We were therefore surprised when Commissioner O’Rielly refused to say whether he will allow a company to acquire licenses that would exceed the nationwide cap set by Congress. This is not a judgment call—no Commissioner has the authority to ignore the law. The law requires that if the FCC approves any transaction that would exceed the statutory cap—including the applications by Sinclair to acquire licenses owned by Tribune Media—that it orders the company to divest any stations necessary within two years. The Commission does not have the authority to waive this statutory requirement. Ignoring the statutory cap now would force future Commission’s to act to enforce the law properly. Specifically, the final backstop to ensure compliance with the law comes when a company applies to renew its licenses. The Commission cannot renew licenses for group owners when those licenses exceed the 39 percent cap—the FCC must order divestitures at that time. While Commission practice is to grandfather licenses during renewals when those licenses violate Commission rules, the FCC cannot waive the law. Neither this Commission nor any future Commissions may grandfather a license renewal that violates the statutory cap. When each of you was sworn in as Commissioners, you swore to faithfully discharge the duties of your office. These obligations include enforcing the laws of the United States as passed by Congress. The majority of the Commission correctly believes that Congress imposed a 39% national cap for broadcasters and that we did not create any loopholes around this cap. To comply with your oath, you are required to order divestitures when necessary to stay within the restraints of the law. We will be closely monitoring the Commission’s action in this area. We encourage you to spend the Commission’s time exploring ways to promote both minority media ownership and a diversity of programming on our airwaves instead of treading down this path that is contrary to the will of Congress. Thank you for your consideration of these concerns, which are shared by many of our colleagues in the Congress. Sincerely, Nancy Pelosi Democratic Leader Frank Pallone, Jr. Ranking Member Committee on Energy and Commerce Mike Doyle Ranking Member Subcommittee on Communications and Technology ###
11.16.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to a number of actions taken earlier today during the Federal Communications Commission’s November meeting. “Chairman Pai has once again jammed a profoundly anti-consumer agenda through the FCC. “In gutting the FCC’s media ownership rules, the Commission has recklessly promoted the unhealthy consolidation of media ownership and continued paving the way for the Sinclair merger. “In addition, the Commission kneecapped the Lifeline program, which could well take low-income phone and internet access away from children, veterans, and the disabled. “The Commission also dumped a risky new broadcast TV standard on the American people. The new standard won’t work on today’s televisions – and could leave consumers without any access to broadcast TV. “Each of these decisions is terrible in its own right, but they are all part of the Chairman’s radical anti-consumer, anti-competitive agenda.” ###
11.15.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) spoke against H.R. 1, legislation to give massive tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy, when it was considered on the House Floor. Click here to see his remarks. The text of his remarks follow. Madam Speaker, I rise today in opposition to this terrible bill. Many of my colleagues have called it a scam – and they’re absolutely right. Supporters of this bill have said “Everybody gets a tax cut.” That’s not true. Millions of Americans get a tax INCREASE – more and more each year, in fact. Supporters of this bill have called it a Middle Class tax cut. That’s not true. The lion’s share of the money goes to corporations and households making a million dollars or more – NOT families struggling to get by from paycheck to paycheck. And what this bill gives the middle class with one hand, it takes away with the other – with devastating consequences for households with high medical costs, lots of student loans, or high state and local taxes. Supporters of this bill have claimed that it will keep companies from moving jobs overseas; create new jobs here at home; and raise wages for American workers. That’s not true. While this bill cuts corporate tax rates, it creates NEW incentives for shipping US jobs abroad. Finally, does anyone really believe that tax cuts for corporations and the rich will trickle down to the rest of us? It’s never worked before – not in 1981, not in 2001 and not in Kansas in 2012. Make no mistake – this massive tax cut for corporations and the rich will increase deficits and the national debt by trillions of dollars, sticking the rest of us, especially our kids, with the bill. Madam Speaker, this massive tax cut for corporations and the wealthy isn’t a Middle Class tax cut. It won’t create jobs or raise wages. It isn’t simple, it isn’t reform, and it certainly won’t pay for itself. If we want to increase economic growth, let’s give a REAL tax break to the Middle Class. They’ll put that money right back into the economy. That’s the way to create jobs and boost wages. I urge my colleagues to reject this giveaway to the rich – and start over on a bipartisan tax reform bill that helps the Americans who need help the most. ###
10.25.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) made the following statement earlier today at the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology’s oversight hearing on the Federal Communications Commission. “First, thank you Madam Chairman for holding this hearing, and thank you to the witnesses for appearing before us today. Let me just say that I really enjoy our time together here, as I’m sure all of you do, and would encourage the Chairman to hold these get-togethers far more often. “Commissioner Rosenworcel, welcome back. Your work on the Homework Gap has been missed. Commissioner Carr, congratulations on your confirmation. I hope that as you establish your agenda you remember that the guiding principle of the FCC is to act in the public interest. It is standard that I will hold you to as well. “Chairman Pai, many people around the country including myself and many of colleagues are deeply alarmed by your response to President Trump’s threats against the media, and specifically his tweet threatening NBC. In 2014, you wrote in the Wall Street Journal that ‘the government has no place pressuring media organizations into covering certain stories.’ You took six days to respond to the President’s tweet, and when you did you did not directly address the President’s threat at all or its chilling effects on the media. “While the President and the Administration can dispute the veracity of any story, even ones that are demonstrably true, they cannot attack the free institutions that enable our democracy. As Senator Flake said yesterday, ‘it is time for our complicity and our accommodation of the unacceptable to end.’ “Besides this issue, the Commission’s agenda under your leadership has already had a profoundly negative effect on our country. From increasing costs on small businesses to driving up the cost of calls to family members in prison and claiming that wireless broadband is competitive even when people in rural American know it’s not, it seems that at every fork in the road you have chosen the path that leads to higher consumer costs, fewer choices, and less innovation. “And it sounds as if the worst is yet to come. News reports suggest that you will unveil plans tomorrow to vastly alter the media landscape in this country, clearing the way for more media consolidation, including the Sinclair-Tribune merger. “Yesterday the Commission eliminated the main studio rule that had ensured for 77 years that local news was gathered and reported locally. What good would a studio and reporters in New York have done for broadcast stations in Houston or Florida after the hurricanes? What good is the local news if it isn’t local? “Other news reports suggest you will announce an order to repeal the FCC’s Open Internet Order around Thanksgiving. Madam Chairman, I sincerely hope, if that is true, that this Committee has a chance to talk to the Commission in advance of a vote on that order. The idea that such a significant order that would affect so much of our economy would be voted on without oversight is unconscionable, and would be a dereliction of this Committee’s duties. If the Chairman is intent to act, I believe that his actions should be done under the scrutiny of Congress and in the light of the public.” Click here for a link to a video of the hearing. Attached is a copy of Commissioner O’Rielly’s response to a Question for the Record from Congressman Doyle. This response was the subject of Congressman Doyle’s line of questioning. ###
10.13.2017	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement today in response to President Trump's announcement about the Iranian nuclear agreement. I am extremely disappointed in President Trump’s decision to declare that Iran is not in compliance with the JCPOA (Iran Nuclear Deal). Under law, the President is required to provide Congress with evidence that Iran is non-compliant. No such evidence has been provided to Congress to-date. This decision by the President goes against the advice of experts around the world and within his own Cabinet, and is intended only to fulfill an unwise campaign promise; this should not be the way that our foreign affairs are conducted. By declaring that Iran is no longer in compliance, Congress now has 60 days to decide whether to re-impose sanctions that were suspended under the deal. I hope that Congress will act wisely, and not re-impose sanctions without cause. Regardless, I am concerned that today’s decision will have grave effects beyond sanctions. Our allies around the world have shown no signs of ending the agreement, making any attempt to ‘tear up the deal’ or impose sanctions meaningless. By walking away from this agreement, President Trump may once again reduce America’s credibility with our allies, embolden Iran, hurt America’s economy, and threaten our national security. It also weakens our position to try and diplomatically defuse the growing crisis in North Korea. I had hoped that President Trump would not gamble so recklessly with America’s foreign policy, but once again I am disappointed. ###
10.13.2017	Washington, DC – October 13, 2017 – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s decision to make drastic changes in health insurance coverage for millions of Americans. “Yesterday President Trump took several steps that are likely to make health insurance more expensive – and possibly unaffordable – for millions of Americans, many of whom desperately need that coverage. President Trump signed an Executive Order directing government agencies to loosen the rules on association health plans (AHPs) and short-term health insurance plans (STLDIs). Such a move could dramatically increase the availability of insurance policies that cover less (and thus cost less) for individuals and small businesses – siphoning younger, healthier customers out of the ACA-compliant exchanges. Such substandard plans often don’t provide the same critical coverage as ACA-compliant plans – and they can make insurance more expensive, and even unaffordable, for people who are sick, or have pre-existing conditions. Incidentally, such plans could also be exempt from state insurance regulations that protect policy-holders from fraud and plans that run out of money. That, in turn, would push up expenses for millions of the (generally older and/or sicker) Americans who continued to purchase health insurance on the ACA exchanges. In addition the President’s Executive Order called for loosening the rules and health reimbursement arrangements (HRAs), which provide employers with tax breaks for money they give their employees to cover some of their health care expenses. Concerns have been raised that such a change could result in fewer companies offering health insurance to their workers. Then last night, the White House announced that the federal government would stop making the (Cost-Sharing Reduction or CSR) payments that lower the cost of health care for millions of low-income people on the Affordable Care Act’s health insurance exchanges. Without the CSR payments, premiums will go up for many households with modest incomes. In fact, each of the steps President Trump took yesterday is likely to make health care more expensive – and in some cases unaffordable – for millions of Americans, particularly the ones who desperately need that coverage. The President’s actions won’t fix the problems with the ACA; ironically, they’ll make those problems worse for many Americans. He seems determined to follow through on his campaign pledge to get rid of “Obamacare” – no matter what the cost. I’m outraged and disgusted that anyone would stoop so low. The President’s actions threaten to take America back to the bad old days when insurance policies were full of loopholes and limits, Americans who were sick, old, or had pre-existing conditions couldn’t get the health care they needed at a price they could afford, millions of Americans rolled the dice and went without insurance, and a lot of young healthy folks bought cheap health insurance that would leave them with a stack of health care bills if – God forbid – they actually got a serious illness. The Senate rejected several ACA repeal bills, and a bipartisan group in the Senate has been working on legislation to address the ACA’s shortcomings. But instead of supporting bipartisan efforts to fix the Affordable Care Act, President Trump took steps yesterday that were intended to undermine it. Consequently, he now owns health care reform. Having said “Let Obamacare implode,” taking steps to make sure that it would, and rejecting bipartisan efforts to fix it, he now bears full responsibility for the problems with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. “Survival of the fittest” shouldn’t be the foundation of the health care system in the richest, most medically advanced country of the world. I will continue to do everything in my power to prevent President Trump from taking affordable health care away millions of Americans.” ###
09.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Following recent press reports that Sputnik, a radio network funded by the Russian government allegedly used U.S. airwaves to influence the 2016 presidential election, Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), and Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ) urged Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai in a letter to investigate the matter and enforce the public interest standard for licensed stations that broadcast the network. All three members are senior members of the Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over the FCC. Several reports allege that Sputnik used U.S. airwaves to influence the 2016 presidential election by spreading false news reports attempting to undermine U.S. democracy, including reports that imply the U.S. election results were hacked or rigged. “Recent reports suggest that Sputnik was used as part of the Kremlin’s efforts to influence the 2016 election,” the members wrote to Chairman Pai. “In Washington, D.C., listeners need only tune their radios to 105.5 FM to hear the Russian government’s effort to influence U.S. policy. Disturbingly, this means the Kremlin’s propaganda messages are being broadcast over a license granted by the FCC.” The Communications Act of 1934 gives the FCC power to take action to ensure broadcast licenses act in the public interest, convenience and necessity. In the letter, the members ask Pai if the FCC will use this power to investigate whether broadcast licensees are contravening the public interest by retransmitting radio programing funded by the Russian government in an effort to influence U.S. polices and elections. The members further inquire what steps the FCC will take if these allegations prove true. In March, Eshoo and Doyle wrote to Chairman Pai regarding issues arising over-the-air television broadcast of RT, formerly Russia Today. RT, like Sputnik, has a history of meddling in elections dating back to 2012 when it pushed anti-U.S. messaging to undermine trust in U.S. democracy. The U.S. intelligence community concluded that it influenced the 2016 elections by serving as a platform for Kremlin messaging to Russian and international audiences. A copy of the letter is available here. ###
09.05.2017	Congressman Calls for Passage of Dream Act Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Member Doyle released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s announcement that the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program would be ended in six months: “I am deeply disappointed in the President’s decision to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. “I believe that DACA was a reasonable and compassionate way to deal with undocumented young people who came to this country as children and grew up here. They did nothing wrong, and many of them know no other home. “The President’s action today is extremely reckless and puts hundreds of thousands of people at risk. This action will have a profoundly negative effect on these young people’s lives, our communities, and the economy. “I will certainly do all that I can to protect DACA and the DREAMers who call our country home. Congress should pass the Dream Act immediately.” ###
08.31.2017	Pittsburgh, PA – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle announced that Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District would participate in the Congressional App Challenge. This competition is held in many congressional districts throughout the country as a chance for students to create their own apps for mobile, tablet, or computer devices and to receive feedback from leading experts in the field. “The Congressional App Challenge is a great way for Congress to get kids interested in computer programming – and possibly in technology-related careers,” Congressman Doyle noted in announcing the competition. “That’s good for them, and it’s good for our economy, which will depend more and more on such skills in the coming years.” Registration Students are required to enter by November 1, 2017, at 12:00 p.m. EST. Students K-12 are welcome to register individually or in teams of up to four individuals. At least two of the team members must reside or go to school in PA-14, but please note that students may only register in one congressional district. If you are uncertain whether you reside or attend school in PA-14, please visit the House of Representatives website. In order to register, students should visit the Congressional App Challenge website and submit a registration form. Participation Entries must be submitted by the closing date, November 1, 2017, at 12:00 p.m. EST. Apps must be original and must have been created within one year of the closing date. Apps will be evaluated based on creativity, implementation, demonstrated excellence of coding and programming skills, and the student’s quality of question answers. Students must submit a summary as well as a YouTube or VIMEO video describing their app and their learning process throughout the competition. Students may also be asked to submit their source code on a case-by-case basis. A panel of judges from prominent tech programs in PA-14 will evaluate these apps and select our winner. Awards Apps will be judged throughout November and the winning app will be announced in early December. There will be one winner, individual or team, selected from PA-14. The winning app will be displayed in the United States Capitol and shown on the United States House of Representatives website. The winner will be invited to the House of Code Demo Day Reception in Washington, D.C., but please note that the winner will be responsible for transportation and other expenses. All participants will be invited to a reception in Pittsburgh after the closing date. Additional prizes will be announced throughout the competition. Additional information about the Congressional App Challenge will be posted on Twitter with the hashtag #HouseofCode. The contact person in Congressman Doyle’s office for any questions about the Challenge is Natalie Young. She can be reached at: Natalie.young@mail.house.gov or (202) 225-2135. ###
08.14.2017	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today about the white supremacist demonstrations in Charlottesville, Virginia, this past weekend. “White supremacist groups are racist and bigoted, and there’s no place for them in America. I expect the Justice Department to conduct a comprehensive investigation into these groups and their activities.”
08.04.2017	Washington, DC - Today, legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Joe Barton (R-TX) was signed into law. The Wounded Officers Recovery Act (H.R. 3298) amends the United States Capitol Police Memorial Fund so that any United States Capitol Police employee who is seriously injured in the line of duty will be eligible for assistance from the fund, which is supported exclusively by private donations. Until now, federal law only allowed the fund to disburse money to families of officers killed in the line of duty. The two Congressmen introduced the bipartisan Wounded Officers Recovery Act of 2017 (H.R. 3298) with more than 100 Members of Congress as cosponsors on July 19. It was passed by the House on July 24 by voice vote. The bill was amended and passed by Unanimous Consent in the Senate on July 27, and the slightly altered bill was agreed to unanimously by the House the same afternoon and sent to the White House for signature. “The Wounded Officers Recovery Act was signed into law only 17 days after it was introduced,” Congressman Doyle noted proudly. “Congress and the White House can act swiftly when we all agree that something should be done, and this was clearly one of those cases. Passing the Wounded Officers Recovery Act is an opportunity for Congress to express our appreciation for the bravery of the US Capitol Police, the risks they take, and the sacrifices they make every day to keep the Capitol and the people in it safe. As a result of this bill’s rapid consideration, Officers Griner and Bailey will receive timely assistance with their health care expenses.” Representatives Barton and Doyle introduced the Wounded Officers Recovery Act after the June 14 attack on the Congressional Republicans’ baseball team, in which two Capitol Police Officers, Crystal Griner and David Bailey, were wounded while bravely working to stop the gunman. ###
07.26.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today introduced legislation to increase the openness, transparency, and accessibility of publicly funded research results. The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act (FASTR) would require federal agencies with annual extramural research budgets of $100 million or more to provide the public with online access to research manuscripts stemming from funded research no later than six months after publication in a peer-reviewed journal. “This bill will give the public greater access to the scientific research they’ve paid for,” Representative Doyle said today. “It will promote greater collaboration among researchers in the sciences, accelerate scientific innovation and discovery, and give the public a greater return on their investment in scientific and technological research It’s a simple, effective way to increase the productivity of our nation’s researchers.” “The FASTR Act will bring tangible benefits to the American people in the form of transparency, accountability, and greater access to research they’ve already paid for,” Representative Yoder said. “Taxpayers are footing the bill for research across many disciplines, from biomedical science to new technology, but right now they can’t access the findings. We’re working to right this wrong so the private sector can more easily take ideas and concepts and turn them into innovation and economic growth.” “Increased public access to federally funded research can be a powerful building block for future discoveries,” said Representative Lofgren. “This transparency can greatly accelerate other breakthroughs, encourage greater collaboration in research, and lead to faster commercialization, all of which benefit the economy, the public at large, and our nation’s competitive advantage.” This legislation would unlock unclassified research funded by agencies like the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the National Science Foundation. The bill builds on the success of the first U.S. mandate for public access to the published results of publicly funded research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2008, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) implemented their public access policy. It is estimated that approximately 90,000 papers are published each year with grant support from NIH, and more than 4 million are now available online. Specifically, the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act would: • Require federal departments and agencies with an annual extramural research budget of $100 million or more, whether funded totally or partially by a government department or agency, to submit an electronic copy of the final manuscript that has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. • Ensure that the manuscript is preserved in a stable digital repository maintained by that agency or in another suitable repository that permits free public access, interoperability, and long-term preservation. • Require that each taxpayer-funded manuscript be made available to the public online and without cost, no later than six months after the article has been published in a peer-reviewed journal. • Require agencies to examine whether introducing open licensing options for research papers they make publicly available as a result of the public access policy would promote productive reuse and computational analysis of those research papers. The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act would leverage federal investments in scientific research by increasing public access to information that promises to stimulate scientific and technological innovation. Click here to read the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act. ###
07.25.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Member Doyle, the Ranking Democratic Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology made the following statement at the beginning of the Subcommittee’s oversight hearing on the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). “Thank you Chairman Blackburn for holding this long overdue hearing today, and thank you to the witnesses for finally appearing before us. It is my sincere hope that we can make this a far more regular occurrence. “I have spent my time in Congress and on this Committee as a strong advocate of competition, innovation, and opportunity. These are the pillars of a successful marketplace, and the driving force of our economy. When we act to weaken them we weaken our own economy and our country. “Chairman Pai, in the time you have been the head this agency, we have seen an agenda that is anti-consumer, anti-small business, anti-competition, anti-innovation, and anti-opportunity. “Right out of the gate the Commission took a range of actions including pulling back an investigation of anti-competitive zero rating practices and issuing a mere progress report on updates to a program to bring broadband to schools and libraries. “The Commission reinstated the UHF discount for what seems to be no other reason than to enable an unprecedented merger between Sinclair and Tribune that would give the combined entity a foothold in nearly eighty percent of American households. “The Commission eviscerated competition for business data services in this country. Your order concluded that a market is competitive if it is served by one provider with the possibility another one might enter at some point. I don’t even see how this makes sense. “The Commission ended a program that enabled poor people to get access to broadband, literally pulling service away from people who had already signed up. “The Commission is in the process of eliminating the FCC’s Open Internet Order, on which as of this morning 12.3 million people have written to you in overwhelming opposition. These rules are working, they have been upheld in Federal Court, and they have promoted a virtuous cycle of investment and innovation online. I don’t think this point can be stressed enough. Publicly traded companies are required by law to tell their investors the risks to their company. No publicly traded ISP has made such a claim. However, many online companies including Netflix and Snap have claimed that eroding or eliminating these rules will in fact pose a threat to their businesses. “When I read your statements and you talk about investment and your concerns, you only seem to talk about it in relation to ISP investment. I’m concerned that maybe you just don’t get it. The Internet isn’t just an ISP’s connection to the consumer; it’s a vast array of networks, services, and applications. Ignoring the rest of the ecosystem is to ignore the part of the internet that is the most vibrant and innovative. “I am deeply concerned that the FCC is on the wrong a path, a path that will hurt small businesses, regular people, and some of the most innovative sectors of our economy.” ###
07.19.2017	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Joe Barton (R-TX) introduced the Wounded Officers Recovery Act of 2017 (H.R. 3298) on behalf of over one hundred Members of Congress - including each player in this year’s Congressional Baseball Game. The bipartisan bill would amend the law governing the United States Capitol Police Memorial Fund to expand eligibility for financial support to include any United States Capitol Police employee who has been injured in the line of duty. The fund at present only allows funds donated to be distributed to families of officers killed in the line of duty. A companion bill will be introduced by the Senate baseball team members later this week. “Over the years, a number of Capitol Police Officers have been killed or injured in the line of duty,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Every member of the House and Senate understand the risks that are willingly taken by these officers every day to keep us, our staffs, and the Capitol’s many visitors safe. The Capitol Police Memorial Fund was originally established with a specific limited purpose – namely, to make it easier for individuals to provide financial support for the families of two Capitol Police Officers killed in the line of duty in 1998. In light of the attack on the Congressional Republicans’ baseball practice last month, in which two Capitol Police Officers were wounded while bravely working to stop the gunman, we believe that the law should be amended to allow the Fund to provide similar support to US Capitol Police Officers seriously injured in the line of duty.” “Sometimes, even simple and caring gestures require an act of Congress,” Congressman Barton said. “Following the tragic shooting on June 14th, the Congressional Baseball game achieved record setting crowds and donations for local charities. This year we will be donating a portion of the funds raised to help those injured at the baseball practice. Officers Bailey and Griner saved my life along with those of my sons and of everyone out at that field. This bill allows the United States Capitol Police Memorial Fund to distribute funds to any of their employees who are seriously injured in the line of duty. Officers Bailey and Griner have received a great deal of care and will require more - the members of the baseball teams wish to make sure they have the necessary resources for recovery.” ###
07.12.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Member Doyle, the Ranking Democratic Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology released the following statement: “I am participating in the Net Neutrality National Day of Action today. I have been strong advocate for a free and open Internet and I have long fought to put in place rules to protect consumers and small businesses. These rules are essential to protecting the Internet and the enormous engine of growth and opportunity it has become. “More than that, the Internet has become the medium through which we communicate with friends, family, and express ourselves as individuals and citizens of this country. Net Neutrality is more than an economic issue, it is an issue of our freedom to communicate and express ourselves and our rights under the law to do so. Many have said that this is the First Amendment right of the 21st Century, and I agree. “An Open Internet is essential to fostering innovation, promoting public discourse, protecting small businesses, and preserving consumers’ ability to access online content. “The current Net Neutrality rules protect and preserve the Open Internet as a platform for competition, innovation, and free speech. They allow the growth of new and improved internet services and applications that would never get off the ground without a level playing field. These strong, enforceable rules, which have stood up to court challenge, prohibit the blocking or throttling of online content – and they prevent carriers from establishing fast lanes or paid prioritization. “The American People have spoken out loud and clear in support of Net Neutrality - more than 6.5 million people have filed comments with the FCC so far this year. They support the current Net Neutrality rules, which protect consumers, small businesses, and edge providers looking to provide innovative and competitive new services. They deserve to have their views respected by the federal government. “The current Net Neutrality rules preserve a free and open internet, which promotes innovation, competition, greater economic growth, and free speech while protecting consumers and small businesses. I believe the FCC should listen to the millions of Americans who’ve filed comments urging the Commission to preserve its current Open Internet rules.” ###
06.28.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Member Doyle, the Ranking Democratic Member on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, released a discussion draft intended to help close the spectrum gap, accelerate the deployment of 5th generation wireless technologies, and increase the availability of unlicensed spectrum. Ranking Member Doyle hopes that this action will facilitate a productive dialogue on this bipartisan issue. In releasing the document, Ranking Member Doyle said, “Wireless broadband is a major driver of our economy, and spectrum is the infrastructure of the 21st Century. This draft bill is intended to benefit consumers, wireless providers, and the stakeholders who use unlicensed wireless technologies. “Getting additional spectrum on the market will help fuel the growth of technologies that are projected to expand dramatically in the next few years, such as the Internet of Things, Smart Cities, and 5G wireless broadband. “This spectrum is also key to connecting rural America to the rest of the world – as well as creating faster, cheaper options for underserved areas and populations. I hope to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, as well as all of the stakeholders, to advance the deployment of broadband in our country - a goal we all share.” The discussion draft, the “5G Acceleration Act,” would require federal government agencies to undertake the following actions: (1) The FCC must auction off 200 (1) The auction must begin by July 1, 2025. Mhz of new spectrum below 7 Ghz. a) NTIA must select 200 Mhz of a) The NTIA must identify this spectrum by Jan. spectrum below 7 Ghz for auction. 1, 2023. b) Federal users must withdraw b) Federal users must begin withdrawing by Jan. from this spectrum. 1, 2023. c) The FCC, in coordination with NTIA, c) The FCC must submit this plan by Jan. 1, 2024. must submit a plan to balance licensed and unlicensed spectrum within the 200 Mhz. d) The FCC must auction off the 200 Mhz. d) The FCC must begin this auction by July 1, 2025. (2) The FCC and the NTIA must submit (2) The report must be submitted by Jan. 1, 2018. a report to Congress identifying 300 Mhz of different spectrum below 7Ghz. (3) The FCC must issue an NOI on (3) The FCC must issue this NOI 30 days after making spectrum available below 12 Ghz. passage of the Act. Click here for a copy of the 5G Acceleration Act. ###
06.26.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to the public release of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of the “Better Care Reconciliation Act,” Senate Republicans’ legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. “The CBO’s analysis of the Senate GOP’s so-called “Better Care Reconciliation Act” confirms what we all suspected – this legislation would cut taxes for corporations and the wealthy by $700 billion, and would cut health care for low- and middle-income households to pay for it. It’s not much different that the American Health Care Act passed by House Republicans last month. This bill would affect ALL Americans – not just those on Medicaid and in the ACA health insurance exchanges. “CBO estimates that more than 22 million Americans would lose health care coverage under this bill – and that millions of others would end up paying more for insurance that covers less. “Once again, we could all be at the mercy of insurance companies and their abusive practices that the Affordable Care Act prohibited – like annual and lifetime benefit caps and discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. “Once again, Americans could go broke paying for things like mental health care, maternity care, and prescription drugs. “It’s obvious that this bill was drafted with the goal of cutting taxes for corporations and the wealthy, not improving health care for most Americans. Senator McConnell ought to throw this bill in the trash and start over – this time with an open and transparent bipartisan process and the goal of improving and strengthening the existing Affordable Care Act. That’s something I have always stood ready to do.” ###
06.22.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to the public release this morning of the Senate Republican “discussion draft” of legislation to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act. “We’ve finally seen the result of the Senate Republicans’ secret backroom deal, and now it’s clear why they kept it secret for so long. “The Senate Republicans’ draft legislation would make even deeper cuts in health care for the poor, disabled, and elderly than the House bill would, while giving the same massive tax cuts to corporations and the wealthy. ON top of that, the Senate draft contains some of worst provisions in the House-passed bill – like the age tax, skimpier insurance coverage, and stealing from Medicare. “Now they’re trying to pass it quickly before the public knows what’s in it. This legislation would affect millions of Americans and a sixth of the US economy. It shouldn’t be sprung on the American people without a thorough consideration. It should get hearings and full committee consideration under regular order before it’s brought up for approval by the full Senate. “We’re still looking at the details of the bill, but several points are immediately clear. The Senate draft would kick more vulnerable Americans off Medicaid in the long run than the House-passed bill. Delaying the Medicaid cuts is a gimmick they’re using to hide the impact these cuts are going to have. “On its surface, the Senate draft appears to protect individuals with pre-existing conditions, but the devil’s in the details. That section of the draft will need a lot of scrutiny. My concern is that in the past insurance companies have proven to be very good at cherry-picking healthier, profitable customers and finding ways to reject sick customers and customers with pre-existing conditions – or at the very least, charging them a lot more. “The bottom line is that this Republican ‘discussion draft’ would kick millions of vulnerable Americans off Medicaid, force millions of other Americans to pay more money for less coverage – and give $600 billion in tax breaks to corporations and the wealthy. That’s just disgusting. "There’s not that much difference between the Senate legislation and the Trumpcare bill passed by the House last month. One thing’s for sure – they’re both worse than what we’ve got now. Republicans should stop trying to sabotage and repeal the Affordable Care Act – and work with Democrats to improve it instead.” ###
06.01.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement to address climate change. “President Trump’s decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement shows that he doesn’t understand the research on climate change and the impact it will have. It also demonstrates a fundamental misunderstanding of our country’s economy in the 21st Century – not to mention the dramatic improvement in environmental quality and the economic transformation underway in Pittsburgh. “Times have changed, and so has Pittsburgh. Our air and water quality have improved dramatically, and Pittsburgh is becoming a leader in carbon-free energy sources and energy efficiency technologies. Pittsburgh is adapting to climate realities – and positioning our industries to provide good jobs to Pittsburghers by fighting the very real challenge of climate change. “Today’s reversal on the Paris Agreement is foolhardy and incredibly disappointing. President Trump clearly doesn’t understand the Paris treaty – and he certainly doesn’t understand my district. By withdrawing from this non-binding agreement, we’re giving up our leadership on the issue and we won’t even have a seat at the table. I will continue to fight for policies that address climate change by creating good jobs for Pittsburghers.” ###
05.23.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget, which was released today. “President Trump calls his budget “A New Foundation for American Greatness. It’d be more accurate to call it a budget that undermines the foundations of American greatness. President Trump’s budget would gut the federal investments in education, science, and infrastructure that promote economic growth. It would slash safety net programs and the programs that make life better for millions of hard-working Americans. On top of all that, it would do nothing to create jobs and raise wages. “This budget abandons the federal government’s longstanding role of setting a level playing field and increasing opportunity for all Americans. In Donald Trump’s world, you give rich people tax cuts and you tell states, cities, counties, and hard-working Americans that they’re on their own – and that produces more economic growth. In reality, it produces less economic growth – and less opportunity for millions of Americans. What it does produce more of is poverty, inequality, sickness, suffering, and hopelessness. “The Trump budget would make massive cuts in safety net programs. Those cuts would devastate poor older Americans, children, and the disabled. In the long run, that would increase costs for all of us. “The Trump budget would also make deep, devastating cuts in investments like infrastructure, education, and scientific and biomedical research. That would slow economic growth and stifle innovation and small business startups. “Pittsburgh would be especially hard-hit by the Trump budget. Pittsburghers would have to pay more to provide water and sewer service, health care, education, affordable housing, transportation, economic development, job training, and care for the poor, disabled, and elderly. In addition, cuts in federal support for scientific and biomedical research would mean Pittsburgh would lose talented researchers – just when we’ve become a world leader in high-tech and we’re becoming pre-eminent in “eds and meds.” Those sectors are the drivers of Pittsburgh’s economy today, and the Trump cuts would stop them cold. “This budget is DOA on the Hill, but it gives us a clear statement of President Trump’s priorities, and they’re despicable.” ###
05.18.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to the FCC vote today to begin proceedings to dismantle the Obama Administration’s Net Neutrality rule. “Today, the Trump FCC began a process to dismantle the rules that protect and enable the Internet as we know it. This action is profoundly anti-competitive, anti-innovation, and anti-consumer. Already, 2.1 million comments have been filed overwhelming opposing eliminating these rules. “Three years ago, 3.7 million people and a broad array of startups, internet companies, and stakeholders called on the FCC to put in place enforceable rules to protect the innovation economy. They did and those open internet rules have worked.” “I am opposed to what the FCC is doing in gutting its net neutrality rules. If you use and enjoy Amazon, Netflix, Etsy, Snap, or so many other innovative services online, you benefit from these rules. I for one enjoy and want an open Internet that gives me a broad range of choices - and promotes new competitive and innovative services - and I will continue to fight to achieve that end.” ###
05.04.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) spoke against HR 1628, the American Health Care Act, during its House consideration this afternoon, and he voted against it at the end of the debate. “Today we all get a chance to go on record about where we stand on this shameful, cruel bill,” Congressman Doyle said on the House Floor. “This creates a survival of the fittest health care for America. If you are young, if you are healthy, if you are wealthy, this bill’s for you; you’re going to do okay. But woe, if you are old, if you are sick, if you are poor, there’s no coverage in this bill for you. If you’ve got a young child with cancer, guess what? Those benefits aren’t going to be paid. The American people will remember how you voted on this bill today.” “24 million Americans are going to lose their insurance if this bill becomes law.” Congressman Doyle observed. “$839 billion dollars gets cut out of the Medicaid program. The Essential Health Benefit Package in states is wiped out – in my state, it’s taken care of people with mental illness and opioid addiction. Gone. This takes 117 billion dollars out of the Medicare Trust Fund. This is really a tax bill masquerading as a healthcare bill. The plan here is to take this money out of the healthcare system and use it for tax cuts.” HR 1628 was approved by the House on a vote of 217 to 213, with 217 Republicans voting for it, 20 Republicans voting against it, and 193 Democrats voting against it. The legislation must now be considered by the Senate. “I will continue to fight against this cruel, misguided bill,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “I will continue to work to fix the problems with the Affordable Care Act, not repeal it.” ###
04.24.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that Macy Kelly Ernst from South Allegheny High School won the First Place ribbon in the 2017 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Ms. Ernst’s artwork, a drawing in colored pencil and paint pen entitled “Wildfire,” will be displayed in a place of honor in the tunnel of the United States Capitol Building for the next year. Her work was selected out of a field of 60 entries from 15 schools in the 14th Congressional District. The Second Place ribbon recipient was Jake Mysliwczyk from Baldwin High School for his photograph “Winter Descent.” His artwork will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s Washington, DC, office. The Third Place award went to Jonah Grove from Pittsburgh CAPA for his acrylic painting entitled “Lizard.” Mr. Grove’s painting will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s Penn Hills office. The Fourth Place ribbon went to Haley Peretic from Cornerstone Christian Preparatory Academy for her pencil and colored pencil drawing entitled “Every Day People.” Ms. Peretic’s painting will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s South Side Pittsburgh office. The Fifth place award recipient of the 14th District Congressional High School Art Competition was Rachel Sweetall from Montour High School, who was awarded fifth place for her paper, glue, and canvas composition “Paper Ella.” Ms. Sweetall’s artwork will be displayed in Congressman Doyle’s McKeesport District Office for the coming year. “We received 60 impressive entries for this year’s competition, and I don’t know how the judges were able to pick a winner,” Congressman Doyle said. “The effort and dedication that these students put into their work is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be very proud of their talent and creativity.” The winners were announced and all of the participants were recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union building this evening. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the twenty-third year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are eligible to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event each year.” The judges awarded the following students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Jasmine Wicks from Baldwin High School Maggie Leone from Oakland Catholic High School Rachael Kate Yanalitis from Oakland Catholic High School Hannah Schwartz from Penn Hills High School Megan Williams from South Allegheny High School Jennifer Gustafson from Highlands High School Alyssa Marsh from Springdale High School Kathleen Marsili from Springdale High School Alexus Frazee from Sto-Rox High School Jenny Rohach from West Mifflin High School ###
04.20.2017	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s decision this morning to deregulate markets for Business Data Service (BDS) in many parts of the country. "The Trump Administration just adopted rules to make internet service even more expensive for small businesses, schools, libraries, and hospitals. "The Federal Communications Commission studied the business internet service market for the better part of a decade, and it found widespread anti-competitive behavior by Internet Service Providers resulting in sky-high rates. ISPs overcharged customers by $75 billion over one 5-year period, for example. "The Obama Administration had been poised to put into place new rules that would have curbed this bad behavior by ISPs, but in marked contrast, the Trump FCC has gone out of its way to make these services even more expensive and give ISPs more freedom to engage in anti-competitive and anti-small business practices. "The President’s own Small Business Administration asked the FCC to delay this vote and rethink this policy, noting that our nation’s small businesses shouldn’t be forced to pay more for less – but the FCC plowed ahead with this massive giveaway to big internet providers, their lobbyists, and industry associations. "Most companies and organizations contract directly with ISPs for business data service that costs hundreds to tens of thousands of dollars a month, and they pay extra for guaranteed speed, uptime, and customer support. These companies depend upon reliable service to do business. Like the consumer broadband market, the business data market badly lacks competition; 75% of businesses across the country have only one choice of provider. However, unlike the consumer market, the FCC has long had rules that allowed a competing provider to offer service by buying access to a big ISP’s last mile facilities. The FCC just rolled back those rules. "More than that, these services are used to connect cell phone antennas back to providers’ networks, and they are one of the biggest expenses associated with operating a cell site. But the big companies that operate cell networks and own these data connections use their market power to make it more expensive for competitors to deploy new cell sites and services. That, in turn, keeps costs higher for consumers. "I have called repeatedly over the last decade for updating these rules and adapting them to the technologies of the future. Internet access isn’t a luxury for the few, it’s a necessity –and the more expensive these services are, the harder it is to start and run a small business. "By crippling competition in the Business Data Service market, the FCC’s action today will transfer billions of dollars each year from consumers and small businesses to big Internet Service Providers – and if that weren’t enough, it will slow down internet innovation and delay the deployment of the next generation of telecommunications infrastructure, hurting US competitiveness internationally." ###
03.29.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced that he and Representative Mike Capuano (D-MA-7) have started a petition on Whitehouse.gov calling on President Trump to veto S.J.Res. 34, legislation that would overturn a recent Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulation protecting Americans’ broadband internet privacy. Click here to read the petition. “This bill has been rushed through both the House and Senate at breakneck speed with one clear goal – to get it signed into law before the American People know about it,” Congressman Doyle observed today after initiating the petition. “Americans do not want their internet browsing history and sensitive personal information used by their ISP without their knowledge for advertising or any other purposes,” Congressman Capuano said earlier today. “I cannot imagine why anyone would support this.” S.J.Res. 34 would overturn the FCC’s recent regulations requiring Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to secure users’ consent before collecting and sharing sensitive data about them with other businesses. In October, the FCC adopted these rules to protect the privacy of internet users. These rules required broadband Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to secure consumers’ consent before using or sharing any of their sensitive data like financial information, Social Security Numbers, or web browsing history. “These modest rules don’t stop Internet Service Providers from using data for advertising, and profiling, and whatever else—so long as they ask first,” Congressman Doyle said yesterday on the House Floor. “Broadband providers see literally everything you do online. Without these rules, these companies don’t have to ask before selling all that information, and they don’t have to take “reasonable measures” to protect that information when they collect it.” The FCC regulations allowed ISPs to use and share non-sensitive consumer information unless a consumer proactively opted out. These rules also required broadband providers to undertake reasonable measures to protect consumers’ data security. S.J.Res. 34 would disapprove the FCC’s broadband privacy rules. Moreover, it would prohibit federal agencies from issuing similar consumer protection legislation in the future without further action by Congress. It was approved by the Senate on March 23 by a party-line vote of 50 to 48, and the House approved S.J.Res. 34 yesterday by a vote of 215 to 205, with 215 Republicans voting in favor of it. It will now go to the President for his signature – or veto. The petition can be found at: https://petitions.whitehouse.gov/petition/veto-sj-res-34-dont-let-internet-providers-spy-and-sell-our-online-data-please-keep-fccs-privacy-rules ###
03.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) managed the Democrats’ opposition during House consideration of S.J.Res. 34, legislation that would overturn a recent Federal Communications Commission (FCC) regulation protecting Americans’ broadband internet privacy. In October, the FCC adopted rules to protect the privacy of internet users. These rules required broadband Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to secure consumers’ consent before using or sharing any of their sensitive information like financial information, social security numbers, or web browsing history. “These modest rules don’t stop Internet Service Providers from using data for advertising, and profiling, and whatever else—so long as they ask first,” Congressman Doyle said on the House Floor. “Broadband providers see literally everything you do online. Without these rules, these companies don’t have to ask before selling all that information, and they don’t have to take “reasonable measures” to protect that information when they collect it.” The FCC regulations allowed ISPs to use and share non-sensitive consumer information unless a consumer proactively opted out. These rules also required broadband providers to undertake reasonable measures to protect consumers’ data security. S.J.Res. 34 would disapprove the FCC’s broadband privacy rules. It was approved by the Senate on March 23 by a party-line vote of 50 to 48. The House approved S.J.Res. 34 today by a vote of 215 to 205, with 215 Republicans voting in favor of it. Click here to see a video of Congressman Doyle’s remarks. The text of his remarks on the House Floor follow below. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I rise today in strong opposition to Senate Joint Resolution 34. Today we are wading waste deep in the swamp. The American people did not ask for this resolution. In fact, no company will even put its name behind this effort. Instead this resolution is the result of an explicit written request from Washington lobbyists. These lobbyists make the bogus claim that having actual protections will confuse consumers and the only way to help clear this confusion is to have no rules at all. No consumer has come forward to support this position. No consumer has said that this argument even makes sense. I challenge every member of this body at their next town hall meeting to have a show of hands of how many people think it’s a good idea to allow their Internet Service Provider to sell their personal information without their permission. Then ask them how they would vote if their congressman supported allowing corporations to do this. This resolution is of the swamp and for the swamp and no one else. The rules that this resolution would overturn are simple and common sense. They don’t require much—only three things: (1) Internet Service Providers should ask permission before selling your private internet browsing history, app usage, or other sensitive information; (2) Once they have your information, Internet Service Providers should take “reasonable measures” to protect it; and (3) If the information does get stolen, the companies should quickly let you know. That’s it. These modest rules don’t stop Internet Service Providers from using data for advertising, and profiling, and whatever else—so long as they ask first. ISPs have an obligation under these rules not to dive into the personal lives of Americans, unless that’s what those Americans want. They just need to ask first. That’s particularly true because broadband providers see literally everything you do online. Every website you visit. Every app. Every Device. Every time. By analyzing your internet usage and browsing history, these companies will know more about you than members of your own family. More than you would tell your doctor. More about you than you know about yourself. And without these rules, these companies don’t have to ask before selling all that information, and they don’t have to take “reasonable measures” to protect that information when they collect it. Make no mistake that anyone who votes for this bill is telling your constituents that they no longer have the freedom to decide how to control their own information. You have given that freedom away to big corporations. More importantly, there aren’t other rules to fall back on if Congress scraps these ones. Critics of the rules argue that the Federal Trade Commission should oversee the privacy protections for broadband providers. But under current law they have no authority to do so and this CRA won’t do a thing to fix that. Under a Federal Court of Appeals case, the FTC has no authority over mobile broadband providers at all. And to those that say that the FCC can evaluate complaints on a case by case basis using its statutory authority, the current Chairman of the FCC has said that Section 222 cannot be used to protect personal information and that rules are necessary to enforce this statute. I’d like to introduce that statement into the record. Without these protections, there will be no clear rules of the road. At a time when foreign actors like the Russians, the Chinese, and everyone else under the sun are constantly trying to steal our data and compromise our security, it would be irresponsible to roll back the only federal safeguards we have. I urge my colleagues to consider that when voting. ###
03.21.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) made the following opening statement this morning at the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications Technology’s hearing on Broadband infrastructure. Access to affordable broadband remains one of the great challenges faced by people in this country. Far too many people in this country either have no access, limited access, or overpriced access. Broadband is an essential tool for participation in modern life. We use it to find employment, educate our children, get access to healthcare, and connect with our communities. But far too many American’s don’t have the type of connectivity they want or need, and certainly in many parts of the country the free market has failed to close these gaps. As many of the witnesses point out in their written testimony, carriers that provide connectivity under the Universal Service program will not be able to raise enough capital to build out or sustain rural broadband networks on their own. As major cities are looking at the challenges and opportunities of gigabit or multi-gigabit 5-G wireless deployments in the next few years, rural carriers will be working over the next 10 years to deploy basic LTE services. I think moving forward with this programs is critical, but the challenge we face as a nation is that servicing rural America will require greater sustained investment, if we hope to prevent those communities from being left behind. Tax credits and toll booths can’t sustain infrastructure in places that don’t have economically viable markets. The draft bills offered by the majority today are fine bills that address a number of challenges to deploying broadband. But they don’t get at the real problem, which is that there isn’t a viable business case for investing in these regions. I was looking through some of the data submitted by Cost Quest Associates from the second panel. Some members here have districts with as few as 11% of the households served by terrestrial broadband. Recent studies have also shown redlining in cities like Cleveland which have resulted in low income communities being left behind while affluent parts of the city receive upgraded service. Access isn’t our only challenge; the FCC found that eighty two percent of the country has only one provider to choose from for high speed broadband. With numbers like that, if we were talking about health care Republican’s would be fighting to repeal and replace internet service in this country. The Consumer Federation of America found that this lack of competition results in Americans currently overpaying roughly $60 billion a year for broadband; that adds up to $250 billion over the past five years. According to Cost Quest Associates, that overage alone would pay for the build-out of a ubiquitous high speed network that could support high consumer use, autonomous vehicles, and future demand. We cannot ignore the impact that a lack of competition has on the cost to consumers or the pace of deployment. ###
03.13.2017	Doors open at 1:00 p.m. Click here for a color copy of the handout packet for the meeting
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) and Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) introduced H.R.1320, the Nuclear Utilization of Keynote Energy’ (NUKE) Act. The legislation puts in place a framework for Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) fees to increase transparency and provide long-term certainty for nuclear plants. The bill also provides greater transparency and certainty in the licensing process for new plants, calls for reports on other issues facing the nuclear energy industry, and requires the NRC to begin a rulemaking process on decommissioning, giving the public a voice in the process. On introducing the legislation today, Congressman Kinzinger released the following statement: “Nuclear power is incredibly important for the district I represent, and for the country. Across Illinois, nuclear contributes nearly $9 billion annually and the four plants in my district employ over 3,500 people. I’ve visited these plants and know we need to make the regulatory process more efficient and transparent. I’m excited to introduce our bipartisan legislation today. The NUKE Act will create more certainty for nuclear plant operations, without compromising safety, and encourage greater investment for the next generation of nuclear power.” Recent reports have found the NRC to be inefficient, and such uncertainty in the regulatory process threatens existing plants as well as investments in new plants. This legislation addresses the inefficiencies in the regulatory process. Congressman Doyle released the following statement: “Nuclear energy is vital for providing our constituents with reliable power; in fact, it’s our country’s largest source of carbon-free electricity. As we seek to reduce emissions in our fight against climate change, I believe it’s important for the federal government to facilitate future investment in nuclear power generation and ensure that the plants which are currently operating can stay online for years to come. This bill would do so without compromising the government oversight needed to ensure such facilities are built and operated safely.” ###
02.17.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced that he and Representative Chris Smith (R-NJ-4) have reintroduced the Pet Safety and Protection Act, legislation to protect companion animals from illegal sale for use in laboratory experiments. The Pet Safety and Protection Act (H.R. 1141) would prohibit “Class B” animal dealers from selling dogs and cats to researchers. "Over their long history, Class B dealers have racked up an atrocious record of illegal activity and cruelty to animals,” Congressman Doyle said today. “This program has been an unmitigated disaster – and worst of all, it’s unnecessary. Congress should have shut it down years ago. That's why we're re-introducing the Pet Safety and Protection Act – to end the Class B dealer problem once and for all. I urge my colleagues to pass this bill to put an end to this industry and the waste of resources it entails, to ensure the integrity of scientific research, and to protect American families and their pets.” “Class B dealers regularly failed to meet even the most basic Animal Welfare Act standards,” remarked Congressman Smith. “NIH and other reputable research institutes do not use Class B dealers because of the serious problems associated with them and their troubled past. Closing them down – once and for all – will give people greater confidence in our research programs and go a long way toward reducing animal cruelty.” Currently, two types of animal dealers are licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) – Class A (“purpose-bred”) dealers and Class B (“random source”) dealers. Class A dealers are highly regulated businesses that raise their own animals. Class B dealers, in contrast, routinely buy dogs and cats from a network of suppliers with murky backgrounds. Many of these suppliers obtain dogs and cats they sell to Class B dealers by stealing them – or by responding to “free to good home” advertisements and posing as individuals willing to provide a good home to a family pet. Class B dealers pay suppliers for each animal, creating enough of a financial incentive for them to steal pet dogs and cats from owners’ properties and then falsify records to keep their true origins unknown. In addition, some Class B dealers have unofficial relationships with pounds, shelters, or “humane societies” to buy surplus animals. Although the law currently requires any stray animal to be held for at least 5 days at such facilities, it does not prevent pets from being kept out of sight, or transported to an out-of-state location for this time period, making it impossible for concerned pet owners to locate a beloved pet. The 2006 HBO documentary “Dealing Dogs” illustrated the illegal and inhumane trade in stray animals and family pets, as well as the neglect and outright cruelty with which some Class B dealers treat these animals. This film contains disturbing video footage collected by an undercover investigator who worked in several Class B dealers’ facilities. Among the abuses documented in this film are overcrowded cages, rotten food, food contaminated with feces, frozen drinking water, dogs with serious untreated injuries and diseases, and live dogs caged with the carcasses of dead dogs. In addition, this investigation documented the beating, strangulation, and shooting of dogs by Class B dealers. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has spent hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars each year unsuccessfully trying to regulate Class B dealers, and it has acknowledged that it can't guarantee that dogs and cats are not being illegally acquired for use in experimental procedures. While only a couple of random source Class B dealers remain, they have a history of violations of the Animal Welfare Act and require USDA to expend resources and personnel on their oversight that could be better used elsewhere. Animal Welfare Institute senior policy advisor Nancy Blaney urged legislators to pass the bill during this Congress, noting: “We greatly appreciate Rep. Doyle’s and Rep. Smith’s commitment to this issue. Without this bill, USDA will continue to waste valuable resources on the hyper-vigilance these dealers require. Moreover, without this bill, there is the continued danger that others may try to get into the business. Most researchers do not use Class B dealers to acquire dogs and cats, and it is time for the remainder who do to end their embarrassing association with them.” The 110th Congress directed the National Academies of Science to examine the issue and determine whether the Class B dealer system should be continued. In May of 2009, the National Academies released its report on the Class B dealer system. The National Academies concluded that: “Although random source dogs and cats represent a very small percentage of animals used in biomedical research, this small number is not commensurate with their potential value, and it is desirable to assure continued access to animals with random source qualities. This access can be accomplished with existing alternative mechanisms other than Class B dealers and can be assured with additional effort. The Committee thus determined that Class B dealers are not necessary for supplying dogs and cats for NIH-funded research.” “The National Academies study puts to rest any remaining concerns about the desirability of eliminating the Class B dealer system,” Congressman Doyle stated shortly after the study was released. “If NIH doesn’t need Class B dealers, it’s highly unlikely any other legitimate researcher does.” ###
02.15.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) announced today that he and 14 other members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee had sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai today urging him to reverse his action blocking implementation of the FCC’s Lifeline Modernization Order. “In today’s world, telecommunications services are essential for every aspect of life,” Congressman Doyle said in discussing the letter to the FCC. “For a number of years, the federal Lifeline program has helped low-income Americans get access to essential telecommunications services. Lifeline originally covered land-line phone service, but as technology changed, Lifeline expanded to cover cell phones and, more recently, broadband. Chairman Pai’s recent decision to halt the implementation of the Lifeline Modernization Order shuts off access to broadband for thousands of low-income Americans across the country. Our letter urges Chairman Pai to reconsider this action.” Congressman Doyle, who serves as the Democratic Ranking Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, was joined in signing the letter by Representatives Frank Pallone, Anna Eshoo, Doris Matsui, Yvette Clarke, Diana DeGette, Jan Schakowsky, Paul Tonko, John Sarbanes, Ben Ray Lujan, Jerry McNerney, Gene Green, Peter Welch, Tony Cárdenas, and Debbie Dingell – all members of the Energy and Commerce Committee. The complete text of the letter follows below. February 15, 2017 The Honorable Ajit Pai Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th St SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Pai: We write to urge you to reconsider your recent action to block the implementation of the Federal Communications Commission’s Lifeline Modernization Order that makes internet access more affordable to struggling Americans. As you know, broadband has become an essential part of modern life, providing a way for the unemployed to find jobs, for the sick to manage their healthcare, for families to connect with loved ones, for all citizens to engage with the government, and for student to access education. But for many struggling families, the only way to get access to these critical services is through the Lifeline program. The Lifeline Broadband Provider (LBP) process was created last year to lessen barriers to entry for new Lifeline broadband providers so that low-income families can benefit from a more competitive Lifeline market brought about by the new participants. At least one provider impacted by your decision already has customers benefiting from this new process, giving them the tool to connect with the outside world. But the FCC’s action is putting this tool out of reach—and for existing customers, it is pulling it out of their hands. The FCC’s order has prevented new entrants to the Lifeline market from immediately offering discounted service to the Americans who need it most. Moreover, this total reversal of existing FCC rules was done by the Wireline Bureau under delegated authority, without a vote by the full Commission or proper notice to the parties affected. Since the Order itself raises many novel questions of law and policy concerning the Commission’s efforts to combat waste, fraud, and abuse in the Lifeline program, issuing the order through the Bureau not only undermines the ability of affected carriers to seek timely review of the decision, it is also an abuse of the FCC’s process. The reasons given for taking these actions do not seem to justify the extreme results. While the order states that the revocations are necessary to prevent further waste, fraud, and abuse, the order does not explain how its actions will accomplish those goals. Furthermore, since the Order raised many novel policy questions regarding the Commission’s current efforts to safeguard the integrity of the Lifeline program, we find it troubling that the Chairman would insist on pursuing the same course he has so often criticized his predecessors for: an improper exercise of the FCC’s delegated authority and a refusal to permit the full Commission from voting on an item that poses new questions of law and policy. We always welcome any efforts to make such an important program more efficient and accountable. But these efforts do not need to come at the expense of the consumers who could benefit from it. We therefore urge you to immediately reinstate the LBP designations already made and to preserve the ability for new carriers to efficiently and responsibly enter the Lifeline market nationally. Moving forward, we welcome the opportunity to continue working with to strengthen, not dismantle, this important social safety net program. Sincerely, ###
02.08.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined Representative Dan Lipinski (D-IL-3) and a number of other Members of Congress in introducing the Buy American Improvement Act (HR 904) to create American jobs, promote US manufacturing industries, increase transparency and accountability in government procurement, and ensure that taxpayer dollars are spent in the USA whenever practicable. “I’m proud to cosponsor this bill to preserve America’s manufacturing base and the jobs of the men and women who work in our factories,” Congressman Doyle said after the bill’s introduction. “Foreign governments have been illegally subsidizing their steel and manufacturing industries and then illegally dumping their second-rate goods on our markets. The bipartisan steel caucus has been fighting this practice for years. We’ve urged stronger enforcement of our trade laws, and argued many specific cases before the WTO. This bill represents another way forward for an industry that has been under ceaseless attack from unfair, illegal actions by foreign governments.” “Despite the fact that too many Americans still can’t find good jobs, the federal government continues to buy many products outside our country instead of using our hard-earned tax dollars to buy American products and hire American workers,” said Rep. Lipinski. “The Buy American Improvement Act will change that.” The Buy American Improvement Act would apply ‘Buy American’ requirements to federal procurement spending that isn’t covered by current law and would close loopholes in programs where ‘Buy American’ requirements are already law. The bill also sets domestic content standards for indirect purchases by U.S. Department of Transportation grantees, ensuring that tax dollars spent on aviation, highway, transit, and rail infrastructure will support U.S. manufacturing and mining jobs, rather than jobs in other countries. In addition, while “Buy America” has traditionally applied only to transportation projects, the Buy American Improvement Act would expand these requirements to a number of other federal grant programs. This legislation would help American companies and workers by requiring federal agencies to publicly disclose “Buy American” waivers in the Federal Register and to explain their justification for the waiver. It would also create a consolidated annual report that lists the total amount and dollar value of all foreign purchases and the number of waivers granted. This additional transparency would allow American companies to see where there are opportunities to sell to the federal government and put more Americans to work. Finally, it would make the Buy America provision for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund permanent. Congressman Doyle worked with Congressman Walter Jones (R-NC-3) to include a similar provision in last year’s Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, but Republican leadership blocked it. Organizations endorsing the bill include the AFL-CIO Transportation Trades Department, BlueGreen Alliance, Alliance for American Manufacturing, Coalition for a Prosperous America, International Association of Machines and Aerospace Workers, Lake Carriers’ Association, Steel Manufacturers Association, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and United Steelworkers. ###
01.30.2017	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to the Executive Order issued by President Donald J. Trump on Friday. “I am deeply disappointed with POTUS for his recent order banning not only all refugees from around the world, but all visitors from a number of countries. “He's also harming citizens of those countries who have lived and worked in this country for years but are out of the country for work or vacation, and neighbors in our own communities who have come to make their lives and our region better. “Our nation has long welcomed refugees fleeing famine and oppression. This act flies in the face of our values as Americans and our history as a refuge for those in need.” ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), Evan Jenkins (R-W.Va.), Tim Ryan (D-Ohio) and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) have introduced legislation to expand retraining opportunities for dislocated coal miners. The bipartisan Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act, H.R. 663, would establish a Dislocated Miners Assistance Program at the U.S. Labor Department to identify dislocated miners, assess their skills and training, identify job training programs, and provide grants to job training providers. The bill would also authorize $20 million a year for five years to fund the Dislocated Miners Assistance Program. “I’m pleased to join Representatives Jenkins, Welch, and Ryan in reintroducing the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act. I believe that the federal government should help Americans affected by major shifts in the economy. That’s what the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act would do; it would help laid-off coal miners get the training they need to start new careers so they can continue to support their families,” Rep. Doyle said. “While we fight to restore coal jobs in West Virginia and Appalachia, we must also provide for the miners who are out of work and for their families. My bill, the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act, will help us provide retraining opportunities for even more unemployed miners. We can get them back to work in good-paying jobs while also revitalizing our coal communities. My legislation will give our coal families hope and the promise of a paycheck, not an unemployment check,” Rep. Jenkins said. “Miners across the United States work in difficult and punishing conditions so that our country has the energy and materials it needs to operate on a day-to-day basis. Their work is the reason the lights come on when we flip the switch, and why so many of the products used throughout the day are able to exist. As our energy sector evolves, it is our responsibility, not our choice, to make sure that miners in Ohio and across the country who have worked so hard are not left behind. The investment in training, education and recruitment that this legislation provides for is critical to doing just that. I am proud to support it,” Rep. Ryan said. “Times are tough for coal workers — I saw it first hand when I visited a West Virginia coal mine in 2015 with Rep. David McKinley. For generations, they have risked their lives to keep our homes warm, our factories working, and our lights on. Now it’s time for their country to help them. As our energy landscape changes, Congress has an obligation to ensure displaced workers in the coal industry have the skills and tools they need to transition into meaningful careers in other industries,” Rep. Welch said. United Mine Workers of America Career Centers Executive Director Clemmy Allen said the bill will provide much-needed support for dislocated miners. “At the United Mine Workers of America Career Centers, we are dedicated to helping displaced coal miners learn new skills and find new jobs to support their families. The Assisting America’s Dislocated Coal Miners Act will provide us with steady funding and the certainty needed to offer training to any miner in need,” Allen said. ###
01.12.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to the announcement that he will serve as Democratic Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology in the 115th Congress. “It is a great privilege to be able to serve as Ranking Member on the Communications and Technology Subcommittee – and it’s a great opportunity to try to help shape US policy in this important sector of our economy. “I want to thank my dear friend and colleague Anna Eshoo for her service as Ranking Member for the last six years – and for her strong support for my serving as Ranking Member in the 115th Congress. Anna has an outstanding record of leadership on tech policy since she came to Congress, and her leadership on this subcommittee has advanced important policies such as net neutrality, unlicensed spectrum, modernized 911 services, and greater competition for devices and services. Anna and I have worked together to advance these issues with other members of the subcommittee. I intend to continue the good work that Anna has been doing as the Ranking Member and to defend the gains that we have made. “We face serious challenges in the 115th Congress. Republicans are already talking about rolling back the Open Internet Order and enacting policies that will hurt innovators and consumers. I believe such an approach will also slow job creation and economic growth. We will work hard to make sure that the interests of consumers and innovators are represented – and defended – at both the subcommittee and full committee levels. “That being said, I believe that there are many goals that we share with our colleagues on the other side of the aisle. Expanded broadband deployment, increased access to broadband, higher speeds – both on wired and wireless services – and a modern and robust public safety communications system are principles that we all agree on. My hope is that we can we come together on a bipartisan agenda that advances the interests of all Americans.” ###
12.08.2016	Washington, DC – December 7, 2016 – This afternoon, U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) and Walter B Jones (R-NC-3) called on the House Rules Committee to allow their “Buy America” amendment to be considered by the full House when it takes up S. 612, the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act (WIINA). Moments ago, House Rules Committee Republicans voted unanimously against allowing consideration of the Doyle-Jones amendment. “Our country depends on good manufacturing jobs to support their families, and this amendment would give those families peace of mind,” Congressman Doyle said in his testimony before the Rules Committee. “Our tax dollars should support American manufacturers and help preserve these communities across the nation that are struggling.” “This amendment is very simple,” Doyle added. “All this is going to do is to codify the Buy America provisions for the EPA’s Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, making them permanent. This isn’t something new. This merely just brings them into line with other federal infrastructure programs. Other clean water programs like the EPA’s Clean Water State Revolving Fund and the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act program have permanent Buy America provisions. Other major taxpayer-financed programs like the Department of Transportation’s funding for transit, highways and rail have permanent Buy America provisions.” “I believe that taxpayer dollars should solely support American-made infrastructure. Unfortunately, current provisions in the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund are weak and Buy America text is only written for FY 2017,” Congressman Jones said. “My colleagues and I introduced legislation to ensure Congress never puts a limit on supporting this country’s economy. I hope to see this amendment permanently included in WIINA.” The Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act, which would authorize the construction of locks and dams, flood control projects, and other water-related infrastructure across the country, is being considered by the House this week. Buy America requirements for iron and steel used in many of those projects were enacted into law years ago. The Senate adopted language making the Buy America requirements for the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) permanent earlier this year with broad bipartisan support, but that language was replaced in recent days with a provision that would only extend the DWSRF Buy America provisions for a year. The Doyle-Jones amendment would make the DWSRF Buy America requirement permanent. The House Rules Committee sets the terms under which a bill is considered on the House Floor, including which, if any amendments can be considered. After the Committee vote, USW president Leo Gerard said, "The Doyle-Jones amendment would have restored permanent Buy America provisions to drinking water infrastructure funding, and with more than 15,000 workers in the steel industry on layoff, this amendment would have allowed members of the House of Representatives to show they stand with American workers." “I will continue to work to protect American manufacturing jobs – including by making this Buy America provision permanent,” Doyle pledged after the Rules Committee vote. ###
11.15.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today in response to the announcement that President-elect Donald J. Trump had chosen Breitbart News’ Executive Chairman Steve Bannon as his White House senior counselor and chief strategist. “I was deeply concerned by the announcement that President-elect Trump had chosen Breitbart News Executive Chairman Stephen Bannon to be his White House senior advisor. Under Mr. Bannon, Breitbart News has spewed a torrent of vindictive hate speech attacking a host of Americans based on characteristics like their race, religion, gender, and sexual orientation. I find such bigotry deeply offensive, and I believe that appointing Mr. Bannon to a senior position in the White House sends a strong message that discrimination, harassment, and violence against anyone who’s different is acceptable now. “I believe that the American people were deeply disturbed by the negativity of the recent political campaign, and that with that process now over, they want and deserve respect and civility from their elected officials – starting with their next President. “I welcomed President-elect Trump’s remarks election night about wanting to heal the divisions created by this election; consequently, I was surprised and concerned by the appointment of Mr. Bannon, which, it seems to me, undermines that goal. “I’ve joined a number of Members of Congress who are sending a letter to President-elect Trump urging him to reconsider his selection of Stephen Bannon for this incredibly important position. It’s my hope that he will take that step, which I believe would help to heal our deeply divided country.” The full text of the letter to the President-elect follows below. Dear President-elect Trump: Immediately following your victory, many Americans were optimistic and hopeful that you would take the steps necessary to unify our country following the divisive and contentious election. In your election night speech you said, “Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division. It is time for us to come together as one united people.” Unfortunately, your appointment of Stephen Bannon, whose ties to the White Nationalist movement have been well-documented, directly undermines your ability to unite the country. As elected representatives of millions of Americans from diverse backgrounds, religions, and ethnicities, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to appoint Mr. Bannon to White House Chief Strategist. Since the election there have been a number of incidents across the country in which minorities, including Muslim Americans, African Americans, Hispanic Americans, and Jewish Americans, have been the targets of violence, harassment and intimidation. Mr. Bannon’s appointment sends the wrong message to people who have engaged in those types of activities, indicating that they will not only be tolerated, but endorsed by your Administration. Millions of Americans have expressed fear and concern about how they will be treated by the Trump Administration and your appointment of Mr. Bannon only exacerbates and validates their concerns. As the Executive Chairman of Breitbart News, Mr. Bannon repeatedly and aggressively pushed stories that promote anti-Semitism, xenophobia, and racism. During an interview last summer, Mr. Bannon bragged that Breitbart was “the platform for the alt-right,” a movement that upholds White Nationalism while strongly rejecting diversity in any form. Under Mr. Bannon’s leadership, Breitbart has referred to a leading Republican who opposed your election as a “Renegade Jew,” suggested “Young Muslims in the West are a ticking time bomb,” declared that the “Confederate flag proclaims a glorious heritage,” and praised the alt-right as a “smarter” version of “old-school racist skinheads.” Disturbingly, leading white nationalists like former KKK Grand Dragon David Duke, American Nazi Party Chairman Rocky J. Suhadya, Richard Spencer, Peter Brimelow, and Brad Griffin have praised the news of Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We believe it should concern you that civil rights groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the Southern Poverty Law Center, are widely opposed to Mr. Bannon’s appointment. We strongly believe that Mr. Bannon’s appointment will not allow the country to heal and come together as one. As one of your top advisors, the White House chief strategist will help set the tone for your administration. The person in this role must be prepared to serve the interests of all Americans, not those of a select few. Once again, we strongly urge you to rescind this appointment immediately and build a diverse White House staff who are committed to the core American values of inclusiveness, diversity and tolerance. ###
10.13.2016	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) highlighted Pittsburgh’s many climate change initiatives at the White House Frontiers Conference hosted by President Obama in Pittsburgh today. Doyle welcomed participants to the Global Frontiers Track, which explored new developments in technology addressing climate change. “Pittsburgh is on the cutting edge of a number of efforts to address climate change,” Congressman Doyle said in summarizing the region’s contributions to crafting a climate-smart future. “It’s not just a great place to hold a conference; it’s a massive laboratory where dozens of experiments in sustainability and clean energy development are being conducted. The Global Frontier we’re here to talk about is all around you. I encourage you all to spend some time here and see what you can learn.” The White House Frontiers Conference focused on science and technology relevant to a number of “Frontiers” that will be important over the coming years. More information about the White House Frontiers Conference can be found at www.frontiersconference.org. Congressman Doyle’s remarks follow below in full: Thank you. It’s a pleasure to be here with you today. I want to welcome you all to Pittsburgh, and to thank our presenters in advance for sharing their insights with us on these critical issues. I want to commend President Obama for recognizing the importance of innovation for our nation’s future – and for holding this Conference on maintaining our nation’s pre-eminence in science and technology. I’m pleased that the White House selected Pittsburgh to host this Frontiers Conference – but I’m not surprised. Pittsburgh is home to a great deal of innovation in the fields this Conference will address. Take, for example, the focus of this track – innovation to deal with climate change. Many people still associate Pittsburgh with heavy industry and fossil fuels. But today, Pittsburgh’s economy is highly diversified and more reliant on knowledge-based industries. Our region is blessed with world-class universities like Pitt and Carnegie Mellon, whose research has produced a host of start-up companies to commercialize their medical and technological advances. We’re also home to private sector research facilities, like those operated by US Steel, Google, and Uber. On top of that, we’ve got government-funded research facilities like the National Energy Technology Lab and the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center. Last, but not least, we’ve strong philanthropic support for research on – and implementation of – innovative approaches to major issues like climate change. Among the efforts of these organizations you can find examples of each of the topics that will be addressed here today – clean energy technologies; data, services, and tools; and climate-smart design. For example, the Scott Institute for Energy Innovation at Carnegie Mellon University is focusing on increased energy-efficiency, energy storage, and the development of new, more sustainable energy technology. The University of Pittsburgh recently expanded its energy research by establishing its new Energy Grid Research and Infrastructure Development Institute to modernize our nation’s system for generating, transmitting, and distributing electricity. This new initiative is located in Pittsburgh’s Energy Innovation Center – an old vocational school which was renovated into a LEED Platinum-certified sustainable building and adaptively re-used as a green energy lab, business incubator, and green job training facility for inner-city residents. Another Pittsburgh non-profit, the Green Building Alliance, began promoting healthy, high-performance buildings nearly 25 years ago. It’s no surprise, then that today, Western Pennsylvania is home to nearly 400 LEED-certified buildings – including the Center for Sustainable Landscapes at the Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens, which is one of the most green-certified buildings in the world. The Green Building Alliance is also responsible for the Pittsburgh 2030 District initiative, which aims to cut energy and water use in nearly 500 major buildings in half by the year 2030. I’m proud to add that our local government is actively involved in addressing climate change. The City of Pittsburgh is well into its third Climate Action Plan and making progress towards its goal of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent. In addition, Pittsburgh is a participant in the Administration’s MetroLab Network, which brings cities and local universities together to develop and test technologies that could benefit communities across the country. Pittsburgh is partnering with Pitt and Carnegie Mellon University on a host of initiatives – from transportation monitoring and traffic light synchronization, to the development of more resilient, sustainable micro-grids for electricity, to making government data easier for the public to find and use through initiatives like the Western Pennsylvania Regional Data Center. The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority is incorporating green infrastructure into its wastewater collection, transportation, and treatment systems. And just yesterday, Pittsburgh’s Mayor, Bill Peduto, announced a new plan for evaluating future development proposals in the city. Under this plan, future real estate development proposals would be evaluated on the basis of a dozen Performance Measures such as sustainability and benefits to low-income residents. We don’t just want a more sustainable economy in Pittsburgh; we want a more sustainable economy that benefits all members of our community. I could go on, but I think I’ve made my point – Pittsburgh is on the cutting edge of a number of efforts to address climate change. It’s not just a great place to hold a conference; it’s a massive laboratory where dozens of experiments in sustainability and clean energy development are being conducted. The Global Frontier we’re here to talk about is all around you. I encourage you all to spend some time here and see what you can learn. Thank you. ###
10.12.2016	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, City of Pittsburgh officials, and the Pittsburgh Robotics Network - an organization of local robotics companies - to showcase the great success and growth of robotics since President Obama’s 2011 visit to Carnegie Mellon University’s National Robotics Engineering Center. In his welcoming remarks, Congressman Doyle highlighted the company expansion and job growth and economic development impact over the last five years. “We’ve experienced remarkable growth in this field since President Obama announced the launch of the National Robotics Initiative here five years ago,” Congressman Mike Doyle said. “Over that short time, we’ve seen employment in local robotics companies and research institutions skyrocket from 700 to more than 2200. Robotics has become an important contributor to the economic resurgence of Pittsburgh – with one of the latest and largest developments being Uber’s establishment of an advanced technology center in Pittsburgh to develop self-driving vehicles. I believe that robotics and advanced manufacturing technology is critical for our region’s future economic growth. As a result, I have been a strong supporter of local efforts to support and promote Pittsburgh’s growth as a world leader in this field.” The showcase, entitled RoboPGH Day, was held at Carnegie Robotics, a robotics design and manufacturing facility. RoboPGH Day highlighted the local robotics industry’s growth and its impact on the Pittsburgh economy. Twenty robotics companies from across the Pittsburgh area provided demonstrations ranging from autonomous solutions for ground and aerial vehicles, to autonomous warehouse logistics, dual robotic arms and robotic car seats. In a recent survey conducted by the Pittsburgh Robotics Network, 19 new robotics companies have opened in Pittsburgh over the last 5 years. Those businesses are providing robotics technology to a wide variety of industries, including agriculture, defense, mining, health care, industrial inspection, transportation, and warehouse automation. Of the 40 robotics companies and research institutions associated with the Pittsburgh Robotics Network, over 1,500 new jobs have been added to the local economy – a 300 percent increase in robotics company employment – over that five-year period. In 2011, President Barack Obama selected Pittsburgh as the city to announce the National Robotics Initiative, a multi-agency effort to accelerate the development and use of robotics in the larger effort to promote the American Manufacturing Partnership. Since that announcement, a new generation of robotics companies have started up in Pittsburgh. ###
10.07.2016	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined Governor Wolf, local officials, and community members to celebrate the completion of the construction of new streets in the Lower Hill Infrastructure Project. Following brief statements, officials participated in a ceremonial ribbon “connecting” before the streets opened to the public. “We’ve worked hard to get to this point, so it’s a real pleasure to have this phase of the redevelopment effort completed and see these streets open,” Congressman Doyle noted. “This infrastructure makes everything else possible. I’m looking forward to the next stage in the process and the construction of buildings that will soon line these streets. I can’t wait to see this site become a vibrant community again, with thousands of Pittsburghers living and working here.” “Through our work with the public and private sector on this project, we are working to correct a mistake made almost 70 years ago,” said Governor Tom Wolf. “This project begins to right that wrong, and will help to redevelop the lower hill area in a way that will not only bring value and enrich the land, but will like the Hill District to downtown and provide real benefits to this community.” This portion of the project, deemed “Element I,” included the construction of a new Fullerton Street that connects Bedford Avenue to Centre Avenue, and a new portion of Wylie Avenue which joins Fullerton Street to Crawford Street. During the urban renewal of the 1950s, all of the streets in the 28-acre site were removed. The reconstruction of the streets includes modern, walkable sidewalks that reconnect the Hill District to downtown. Funding for the work was provided through an $11.5 million Redevelopment Assistance Capital Program (RACP) award and $1 million of Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP) funding. The infrastructure project has been designed, and is being constructed, as part of a planned Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) for Neighborhood Development certification. It includes energy efficient street lighting, stormwater planters and street trees. Additionally, the design include pedestrian and traffic safety improvements, upgrades to storm and sanitary lines, and improved bicycle connections. Other roadway work is currently underway which will provide a new Logan Street, connecting Bedford to Centre Avenue, Wylie Avenue continuing to the new Logan Street, and a new intersection at Logan Street and Centre Avenue. Construction on “Element II” is expected to be complete in Summer 2017. “This project is evidence of what we can accomplish when we all work together. I thank Congressman Doyle, Governor Wolf and the members of the General Assembly for their continued support of these efforts, and for the funding for which they have advocated,” said Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “There are few places in this country that have the opportunity to redevelop a 28-acre site in their downtown corridor, but that is what we have – and it is a great opportunity. I’m excited to celebrate the completion of the first streets here on the site and can already envision what it will look like teeming with people and industry once again.” The new street grid creates parcels that will support a mixed-use development which will include 606,000 square feet of Class A office space, over 254,000 square feet of commercial space, a 150-room hotel, 2.8 acres of public green open space and 1,191 residential units. Private partners are expected to invest over $379 million in the project. “This project is about reconnecting the Hill District with Downtown Pittsburgh, and providing ladders of opportunity toward a more equitable city economy,” said Mayor William Peduto. “Residents of the Hill District deserve better access to employment, education and prosperity, and we are pleased to take initial steps toward those goals.” In the mid-1950s, the Lower Hill District was declared blighted resulting in 1,300 buildings on 95 acres being cleared, displacing over 8,000 people and 413 businesses. The ambitious plans for urban renewal never fully materialized and what was once a thriving community became mostly surface parking. The Lower Hill Infrastructure Project will help to repair the mistakes of the 1950s and extend the economic strengths of Downtown to the Hill District. When complete, the development is projected to create 2,948 permanent jobs. In future phases, more new streets will be built, and a cap with streets and greenspace will be built over Route I-579 to reestablish the connection between the Lower Hill District and downtown Pittsburgh that was destroyed decades ago when I-579 and the Civic Arena were built. By providing improved access between these neighborhoods, and to the transit system Downtown, the I-579 Cap Urban Connector will promote public and private development in the Hill District and help create new jobs for Hill District residents. Congressman Doyle worked with local community leaders to secure $20.5 million in federal funding to assist in the redevelopment of the city’s Lower Hill District through the construction of the I-579 Cap Urban Connector. # # #
08.05.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that he and other House Democrats had written to their Democratic colleagues in the House urging them to support swift action by the Federal Communications Commission to reform the current regulations governing the market for Business Data Services (BDS). Doyle and the other Democratic Members who signed the “Dear Colleague” letter – Representatives Anna Eshoo (CA-18), Doris Matsui (CA-6), and Peter Welch (VT-all) – all serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcomittee on Communications and Technology. They have been working for many years to promote FCC regulatory reforms that benefit consumers and innovators through better telecommunications services at lower costs – primarily by promoting greater innovation and more competitive markets for telecommunications services. The letter states that: "Business Data Services make up a $45 billion a year market that provides connectivity for wireless broadband services and connects anchor institutions such as schools, hospitals, and public safety responders, and businesses large and small." Studies have shown that the failure of the current regulatory framework has cost the U.S. economy $150 billion over the last 5 years. These costs are overwhelmingly borne by small businesses and consumers. The FCC has conducted extensive research on the Business Data Services market over a number of years, and in April FCC Chairman Wheeler announced a proposal for reforming the Commission’s current BDS regulations by the end of the year. The letter’s authors urged their colleagues to “support the FCC’s evidence-based efforts to unleash benefits for America’s businesses and consumers and to lead the world in next generation communications infrastructure.” The full text of the letter follows below. FCC Should Act Without Delay to Reform the Business Data Services Market August 5, 2106 Dear Colleague, We write to you today in support of the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) efforts to reform the Business Data Services (BDS) market. We have championed regulatory reform of this critical component of our nation’s telecommunications infrastructure. In April, the FCC jumpstarted the decades-long BDS proceeding with a proposal based on the most comprehensive data collection effort ever undertaken by the Commission. FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler has made it an important goal to adopt these updated rules by the end of this year, and we urge him to complete this important Democratic priority without delay. Business Data Services make up a $45 billion a year market that provides connectivity for wireless broadband services and connects anchor institutions such as schools, hospitals, and public safety responders, and businesses large and small. Studies have shown that the failure of the current regulatory framework has cost the U.S. economy $150 billion over the last 5 years. These costs are overwhelmingly borne by small businesses and consumers. Chairman Wheeler has stated that reform of this market is essential for promoting BDS competition, benefiting individual and business consumers, and unleashing the true potential of next generation wireless services. During the most recent Energy & Commerce Committee FCC Oversight Hearing in July, he testified that BDS reform is not only important for competition today, but necessary to meet our national priority of leading the world in 5G wireless services. The time has come for the FCC to use the extensive data collected over the last several years to undertake competition-based reform of the BDS market in urban and rural areas alike. We commend Chairman Wheeler for his leadership on this important issue. After more than a decade of study, we strongly urge you to support the FCC’s evidence-based efforts to unleash benefits for America’s businesses and consumers and to lead the world in next generation communications infrastructure. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress Anna Eshoo Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Doris Matsui Member of Congress Peter Welch Member of Congress ###
07.26.2016	PITTSBURGH – U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14), Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald and Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded the Sports & Exhibition Authority (SEA) $19 million to assist in the redevelopment of the city’s Lower Hill District. Federal, state, county and local leaders have been working together for several years to secure federal funding for the project. “I commend Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Mayor Peduto, and Congressman Doyle in our cooperative effort to secure this award. Reconnecting the Lower Hill District to downtown Pittsburgh is critical to the region’s economy, helping the community to receive greater access to the economic development gains Pittsburgh has experienced over the past few decades,” said Casey. “Redeveloping this 28 acre site will create jobs and make important improvements to the region’s infrastructure that are long overdue. I’ll continue to support efforts to ensure we’re investing in and improving community development here and across Pennsylvania.” “TIGER grants are awarded through a very competitive process,” Doyle observed. “The Department of Transportation receives hundreds of proposals for each round of TIGER grant funding, but only a few dozen applicants end up receiving grants. The fact that we were chosen – and received all of the funding we requested – is remarkable, and it speaks volumes about the merit of this project and the quality of the application we submitted. This project will help all of Pittsburgh, but it will especially help the Hill District by ending its isolation and bringing jobs and economic growth to the community. That change is long overdue. I think the diversity of stakeholders was critical to our application’s success, and I’m proud of the community-wide support for our application.” “We are grateful for the support of our partners, particularly Senator Casey and Congressman Doyle, for their efforts in advocating for this project and its funding,” said Fitzgerald. “We have always seen success when we work together, and this announcement is more evidence of exactly that philosophy. We are excited to see this portion of the project move forward with this funding, and thank the Department of Transportation for its support of this effort.” “This award will help heal one of Pittsburgh’s worst efforts at urban renewal, when decades ago city planners separated the Hill District from Downtown and cut the life-blood from one our most historic communities. This grant will not only help reconnect the Hill and Downtown, but bring much-needed improvements to pedestrian safety and green space in the neighborhood,” Peduto said. The $19 million has been awarded through the federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recover (“TIGER”) Discretionary Grant program. TIGER Grants can be used for road, rail, transit, or port projects that will achieve national objectives. Over the last seven years, the federal government has provided more than $4.5 billion in TIGER grants. The U.S. Department of Transportation will announce the eighth round of TIGER Grant awards this week. The SEA requested $19 million in TIGER Grant funding earlier this year. The City of Pittsburgh and its partners also received $1.5 million in TIGER Grant funding in 2014 to assist in the planning phase of the project. The funding will be used to reestablish the connection between the Lower Hill District and downtown Pittsburgh that was destroyed decades ago when I-579 and the Civic Arena were built. By providing improved access between these neighborhoods, and to the transit system Downtown, the I-579 Cap Urban Connector will promote public and private development in the Hill District and help create new jobs for Hill District residents. # # #
06.29.2016	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined Pittsburgh Mayor Bill Peduto and City Council President Bruce Kraus today to call for universal background checks for gun purchases and a ban on the sale of firearms to suspected terrorists. They joined local victims of gun violence and representatives from gun safety groups on the steps of the City-County Building to mark the National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention. Democratic Members of Congress, victims of gun violence and their families, and advocates for gun violence prevention across the country are holding dozens of events nation-wide today to demand Congress act on commonsense legislation to prevent gun violence. “After every mass shooting, the House Republican Leadership calls for a moment of silence – but does nothing to address the epidemic of gun violence that’s killing tens of thousands of Americans every year,” Congressman Doyle observed recently. “Democratic Members of Congress have tried every conventional approach in recent years to get the House Republican Leadership to allow votes on these bills – all to no effect” The National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention comes after House Democrats sat-in for 26 hours on the House Floor last week to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands. “After the Orlando shooting, we decided that the time had finally come to draw a line in the sand and put the Republicans on notice that we aren’t going to allow business as usual until they give us a vote,” Congressman Doyle added. “I helped organize a sit-in on the House Floor on June 22 in which more than 100 House Democrats refused to allow business as usual until Speaker Ryan allowed a vote on legislation requiring universal background checks and prohibiting gun sales to suspected terrorists” Doyle and the other House Democrats wanted votes in the House on two bipartisan bills: • HR 1217, legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; • HR 1076, the ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 14 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill. Instead, Republican Leaders adjourned the House early for the Fourth of July Congressional recess, leaving Washington DC without allowing any votes on these bipartisan gun violence prevention bills. “Republicans in Congress aren’t going to allow a vote on gun violence legislation until the people who elect them demand it", Congressman Doyle said. “If your Representative or Senators oppose commonsense gun violence prevention legislation, they need to hear from you. You need to call them on the phone and say ‘we want a vote on universal background checks and No-Fly-No-Buy.’” Speakers at the National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention event included the Reverend Reverend Glenn G. Grayson, pastor of Wesley Center A.M.E. Zion Church; Daylan Stubblefield, a local survivor of gun violence; Shanon Williams, CeaseFirePA Campaign Coordinator; and Elizabeth Pagel-Hogan, Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. # # #
06.23.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today about the sit-in that he and other House Democrats held on the House Floor over the last 26 hours. “As far as I’m concerned, there’s no need for civilians to have assault weapons, armor-piercing bullets, or large-capacity magazines in this country. We’ve seen the devastation they can cause in Pittsburgh where there have been a number of deadly mass shootings in recent years. “I want to get these weapons of war off our streets. I’m a cosponsor of legislation to reinstate the ban on assault weapons and large-capacity clips, as well as legislation to close the loopholes in the national instant background check system. “The House Republican Leadership has kept all of those bills bottled up in committee and refused to bring any of them to the Floor for a vote. Many of us are frustrated that after every tragic mass shooting, the House Republican Leadership calls for a moment of silence, but fails to take action. In fact, they refuse to allow Floor consideration of any gun safety legislation. “House Democrats have tried every conventional approach to get the Republican leadership to bring these bills to the Floor, and we decided that the time had finally come to draw a line in the sand and put the Republicans on notice that we aren’t going to allow business as usual until they give us a vote. “Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell allowed a healthy, open debate and vote on legislation to expand background checks and prohibit gun sales to suspected terrorists. That’s all we want. "The American People deserve to know where their elected officials stand on these life and death issues. Why won’t Speaker Ryan allow the House to vote?" # # #
06.21.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today in response to reports that Columbus, Ohio, had been selected as the winner of the US Department of Transportation’s Smart City Grant. “I was very disappointed to learn that Pittsburgh was not selected as the recipient of the DoT Smart City grant. We have some of the top talent in the world in this field right here in southwestern Pennsylvania, and I thought that Pittsburgh’s proposal was one of the best plans entered in the competition. “Pittsburgh’s selection as a finalist affirms its reputation as a national leader in emerging information technology applications. “Moreover, Pittsburgh’s Smart City proposal was a massive team effort that enjoyed overwhelming local support and participation. While it’s disappointing that we didn’t get the grant, we believe that Pittsburgh should nevertheless proceed with implementation of our Smart City plan. Embracing these new technologies would benefit local residents, help grow our economy, and keep our region globally competitive – so I believe we should move forward with the Smart City plan we’ve developed and continue to make Pittsburgh an example of the advantages smart cities technologies can provide.” # # #
06.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA) released the following statement in response to today’s decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit to uphold the Federal Communications Commission’s Open Internet Order: “The Court’s decision ensures that the Internet will remain an open platform for free expression, innovation, and economic competition. This decision, which provides much-needed certainty to Internet businesses and consumers, will benefit all Americans significantly in the years to come.” “In upholding the FCC’s Open Internet Order, the Court has also validated the policies adopted by the FCC -- and rejected the arguments of its industry critics. “I want to commend the dedication, hard work, and professionalism of FCC Chairman Wheeler, the FCC’s General Counsel, and the staff at the Commission. This is a momentous victory for American consumers and innovators, and the FCC should be very proud of this accomplishment.” “I’m very pleased with the Court’s decision today. However, this battle is far from over, and I plan to continue fighting to protect consumers and innovators online.” # # #
05.03.2016	Alyssa Marsh from Springdale High School won the First Place ribbon in the 2016 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Ms. Marsh’s artwork, a drawing in colored pencil entitled “American Reflaction,” will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year. Her work was selected out of a field of 74 entries from 16 schools in the 14th Congressional District. Miranda Miller from Woodland Hills High School was awarded second place for her untitled oil and acrylic painting. Ms. Miller received third place last year for her acrylic on board painting entitled “Corner of Hanover and Church,” and she won the top prize in 2014 for her charcoal composition “City Built on Hope.” Hannah Schwartz from Penn Hills High School received third place for her Boise acrylic composition entitled “Pup Kaiyai.” Sabrina Davies from West Mifflin High School was awarded fourth place for her white charcoal, watercolor, and acrylic artwork entitled “The Lingering Past.” Nicole Bonomo from Wilson Christian Academy received the fifth place award for her acrylic composition “Snowy Owl.” “We received more than 70 impressive entries for this year’s competition, and I don’t know how the judges were able to pick a winner,” Congressman Doyle said. “The effort and dedication that these students put into their work is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be very proud of their creativity and ability.” The winners were announced and all of the participants were recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union building this evening. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the twenty-second year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are eligible to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event each year.” The judges awarded the following students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Zachary Blanner from Baldwin High School Sagar Kamath from CAPA Ada Griffin from CAPA Leah Berman-Kress from the Ellis School Kerry Dietrich from Montour High School Sara Weir from Riverview High School Macy K. Ernst from South Allegheny High School Nick Lasica from South Allegheny High School Alyssa Tocco from Springdale High School Lauren Boyd from Springdale High School Haley Peretic from Wilson Christian Academy Kobe Sanders of Woodland Hills High School ###
04.29.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Evan Jenkins (R-WV) introduced legislation today that would provide new retraining opportunities for dislocated coal miners. “Through no fault of their own, thousands of coal miners have lost their jobs recently,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This shock has devastated whole communities in Pennsylvania and West Virginia, not just the laid-off coal miners and their families. “Pittsburgh experienced similar economic disruption and suffering when we lost thousands of steel-making jobs in the 1970s and ‘80s, so I know what they’re going through – and my heart goes out to them,” Congressman Doyle added. “Moreover, I know from experience that the best way to help folks who have lost their jobs is to help them get new ones. That’s why I’ve joined Representative Jenkins in introducing the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act.” This legislation, the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act, would establish a Dislocated Miners Assistance Program at the U.S. Labor Department to identify dislocated miners, assess their skills and training, identify job training programs, and provide grants to job training providers. The bill would also authorize $20 million a year for five years to fund the Dislocated Miners Assistance Program. “While we fight to restore our coal jobs, we must also provide for the miners who are out of work and for their families. My bill, the Assisting America’s Dislocated Miners Act, will help us provide retraining opportunities for more unemployed miners and get them back to work in good-paying and stable jobs,” Rep. Jenkins said. “By providing coal miners the opportunity to retrain and learn new trades, we can revitalize our coal communities. I want to thank Rep. Doyle for his support of this legislation, which gives families hope and the promise of a paycheck, not an unemployment check.” ###
04.28.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission vote today to end anti-competitive lockup provisions and begin a further rulemaking to make much-needed reforms to the Business Data Service market. “As someone who has worked to bring more competition to our nation’s broadband market, I’m very pleased by the FCC’s vote today. I’ve been advocating for just this type of action over the last decade, and I’m very happy to see the Commission taking this critical next step.” “The FCC voted today to prohibit the use of lock-up terms and conditions, a harmful industry practice that has severely restricted competition for customers’ business. The Commission also voted to move forward on additional reforms of the Business Data Service market. Institutions large and small, ranging from hospitals and schools to gas stations and many others, spend more than $45 billion annually for business data services. Reforming this market to make it more competitive will drive down prices and increase choices for business consumers.” “These new reforms come on the heels of a landmark agreement between Verizon and INCOMPAS to reform the business data service market. I’m very pleased that these stakeholders could come together and work with the Commission to establish a path towards reform.” “Chairman Wheeler’s leadership has been instrumental in advancing these competitive reforms. American consumers and innovators benefit when broadband providers have to compete for their business and this is exactly what the FCC’s action aim to achieve.” ###
03.11.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s proposal for Internet privacy rules. “The FCC already limits what your phone company can do with information about your phone calls – and most Americans wouldn’t have it any other way. They want their phone calls to be private – and rightly so. Who they call, when they call, and where they call from is nobody’s business but their own. I don’t know why we shouldn’t have similar rules to protect the privacy of Americans’ Internet activities . The Internet sites you visit, when you visit them, and what you do on them is none of your Internet Service Provider’s business. If they want to share or sell that data with other companies, they should have to get your permission first. Consequently, I support the FCC Chairman’s proposal to protect consumers’ Internet privacy.” ###
01.28.2016	January 28, 2016 – Congressman Doyle joined Pennsylvania Department of Conservation and Natural Resources (DCNR) Secretary Cindy Adams Dunn and other state and local officials at the Battle of Homestead site along the Monongahela River to announce $28 million in DCNR Community Conservation Partnerships Program grants to 176 projects across the Commonwealth, including two $100,000 grants for Homestead. “The Community Conservation Partnerships Program grants we’re announcing today will provide new recreational opportunities for these communities and improve environmental quality – and in the process make relocating to our region more attractive to individuals and businesses,” Congressman Doyle observed. The Community Conservation Partnerships Program provides grants to local communities for conservation, recreation, and community revitalization efforts. The program creates new recreational opportunities, conserves natural resources and helps revitalize local communities. Homestead is receiving two $100,000 grants: one providing a direct connection from the Great Allegheny Passage Trail to The Avenues Business District; and the other providing funding for renovation of McLean Playground and Frick Park. “Local governments, businesses, nonprofits, and individuals have contributed the required matching funds for these grants,” Congressman Doyle added. “I want to commend all of them, along with Secretary Dunn representing the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, for making these community improvements possible. This is another positive step forward for Homestead and our region.” “Homestead has rallied around three projects that will benefit from DCNR grants being announced today,” Dunn said. “Its efforts exemplify the driving force behind DCNR’s grants program -- that the health and vitality of a community is reflected in the quality of its parks and trails, access to rivers, open spaces and outdoor recreation opportunities.” “Whether in Allegheny or Montgomery County, local parks are as diverse as the populations they serve,” Dunn observed, “but they face similar challenges -- limited funding, aging infrastructure, maintenance needs and reduced capacity to carry out programs and services. These funds offer a helping hand to achieve projects countless studies show community residents want.” “We are extremely pleased by DCNR’s investment in our community, enabling us to serve our residents better by rehabbing the parks and playgrounds, and offering green spaces that will collect and retain stormwater,” Homestead Borough Council President Lloyd Cunningham told listeners gathered along Waterfont Drive. “The Avenues Trail Connector will be an excellent supplement to the Great Allegheny Passage trail, providing a direct connection from the trail to The Avenues Business District and offering cyclists easier access to local businesses in our Historic Business District." The council president hailed the borough projects as “an excellent example of regional collaboration” involving the Allegheny County Sanitary Authority (ALCOSAN), Western Pennsylvania Conservancy, Steel Valley School District and William V. Campbell Educational and Community Foundation. “These grants are vital to the future growth and development of our communities and breathe life into projects that will reinvest in families and their children,” said Senator Jay Costa (D-Allegheny). “For the Allegheny Passage, this is an incredible project that ties communities together through recreation. This project alone will be an attraction that will drive people into our communities to take advantage of recreation facilities, spurring the local economy in the process.” The Great Allegheny Passage, which stretches 150 miles from Pittsburgh to its junction with the C&O Canal Towpath at Cumberland, Maryland, offers hikers and bicyclists the opportunity to travel the 330 miles between Pittsburgh and Washington, D.C. free from traffic and motorized vehicles. Funding for grants overseen by DCNR’s Bureau of Recreation and Conservation includes the Keystone Fund, which is generated from a portion of the realty transfer tax; the Environmental Stewardship Fund; the ATV/Snowmobile Fund generated through fees for licenses; and federal monies. For a complete list of grants by county, click here. ###
01.05.2016	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) welcomed President Obama’s announcement earlier today that the Administration is taking additional measures to curb gun violence in the United States. “The President announced today that the federal government will strengthen background checks, improve the enforcement of federal gun laws, increase mental health services, and invest in research to make guns safer,” Congressman Doyle said after the President’s announcement. “These executive actions will save lives and make our country safer without infringing on any law-abiding individual’s right to own firearms. I want to commend President Obama for taking these steps to reduce gun violence in our nation.” “Unfortunately, there’s only so much the President can do by himself,” Congressman Doyle added. “Other effective measures that the federal government could take to curb gun violence require Congressional approval. The President’s actions stand in stark contrast to the total inaction on this important issue in Congress, where Republicans have been stonewalling legislation like the bipartisan King-Thompson bill to strengthen background checks and close current loopholes in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System that allow criminals, domestic abusers and the dangerously mentally ill to have easy access to guns. The President has done his part. Now, Congress should step up and finish the job.” “Guns kill 30,000 Americans each year,” Congressman Doyle observed, “but background checks are required for only about two-thirds of the gun sales conducted in the United States. The National Instant Criminal Background Check System stops an average of 170 felons, 50 domestic abusers, and 20 fugitives from buying guns each day. Unfortunately, no system is in place today to prevent these same prohibited purchasers from buying the same guns at gun shows, over the internet, or through newspaper ads with no questions asked – because background checks are not required for these kinds of sales. I believe Congress should take commonsense steps to prevent the sale of firearms to individuals who pose a violent threat to themselves or others. That’s why I’m a cosponsor of H.R. 1217, the King-Thompson bill, which would close these dangerous loopholes.” The executive actions announced by the President today will make progress in curbing gun violence by: Toughening background checks nationwide: The President’s executive actions provide new guidance on existing federal laws, clarifying that any individual in the business of selling firearms must obtain a license through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) and therefore conduct background checks on prospective gun purchasers. These actions also include new measures and resources to make the background check system more efficient and effective. Protecting communities with bolstered enforcement: The executive actions take new steps to promote smart and effective enforcement of our gun laws – including a proposed increase in funding for more ATF agents, greater resources for tracking illegal online firearms trafficking and strengthened domestic violence outreach efforts. Improving mental health services: The President is proposing increased investment to expand access to mental health care. Further, the executive actions remove barriers that prevent the reporting of relevant mental health information to the background check system. Undertaking new research into gun safety: The executive actions direct the Departments of Defense, Justice and Homeland Security to conduct or sponsor research into new technology to make firearms safer. Click here for more information about the President’s initiative to reduce gun violence. # # #
12.21.2015	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined state, county, and local officials today in celebrating the completion of the $14.5 million Carrie Furnace flyover ramp with a formal ribbon cutting. The flyover ramp connects the Rankin Bridge to the 168 acre Carrie Furnace site along the Monongahela River. The new ramp passes over three railway tracks and incorporates significant railroad crossing safety improvements. The completion of the flyover bridge marks a significant milestone in the site preparation and reclamation of the former steel yard. “Up until now, access to this site has been limited by the railroad tracks, and that has hurt our efforts to redevelop it,” Congressman Doyle said today. “It was clear that providing better access to the site was essential in order to get it back into productive use. I contacted the Secretary of Transportation and expressed my strong support for the county’s application for funding to building this flyover ramp, and I was very pleased when the county was awarded a $10 million grant in 2011. Now, with its completion, this site is ready for new economic activity.” “This ramp represents a significant step in the reclamation and redevelopment of this property because it offers direct access to over 100 acres of flat, riverfront land,” said Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “The investments made by Congressman Doyle, Senator Costa, Rep. Costa and the Redevelopment Authority were absolutely integral to the clean-up of this brownfield, and can be a boon to the surrounding communities as it begins to develop.” The construction of the flyover bridge was made possible with a Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant of $10 million that was championed by Congressman Mike Doyle. Additional funding was provided through Housing & Urban Development Community Development funds ($1.5 million) and the PA Redevelopment Assistance Capital Program ($3 million). Allegheny County purchased the Carrie Furnace site in 2005 for $5.75 million. In 2006, Carrie Furnaces Nos. 6 and 7 were designated as a National Historic Landmark. In the last decade, the county has completed environmental assessments of the property, finished design and engineering work needed to bring the site above the 100 year flood plain, and extended sanitary and storm water systems. Importation and grading of fill material has continued. Today’s site has over 45 acres of pad ready for development, and 1,880 foot of the Carrie Furnace Boulevard constructed with an investment of nearly $32 million in improvements. “The completion of this project marks a pivotal point for Pittsburgh and shows what progress we can make when we invest in our infrastructure and our communities,” said Senator Jay Costa. “This bridge does more than just connect portions of our city – it is tangible evidence of how we can change lives through job creation and economic development when we work together to move Pa forward. I’m pleased to support the efforts of everyone involved and offer my sincere thanks for a job well done.” Activity on the Carrie Furnace site will continue as fill is imported for an additional 23 acres of pad ready development, extending the developable acreage up to the historic furnaces. There will also be continued construction of Carrie Furnace Boulevard to the far west end of the site and continued importation of fill and grading on the western side of the furnaces. Additionally, plans call for the remediation and eventual connection of the hot metal bridge to the site with bike and pedestrian trails continuing from the Waterfront. “I commend Congressman Doyle and former Governor Ed Rendell for securing the funding for this long-awaited opportunity to redevelop what was once the signature landmark of Steel Valley,” said Rep. Paul Costa. “The opening of this flyover bridge moves this development forward and provides a great opportunity for Rankin and Swissvale to take advantage of this chance to grow and thrive along with the other communities along the Monongahela River.” The Redevelopment Authority of Allegheny County, which has managed the project, anticipates that a request for development proposals will be released now that the flyover construction is nearing completion. Overall, the site can absorb 1,000 jobs over the first 10 years within this proposed LEED-certified flex-office/light industrial park. # # #
11.19.2015	Washington, DC – November 19, 2015 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement today after House consideration of legislation to improve the security screening process for refugees seeking to enter the United States. Today I voted in support of strong legislation to improve refugee screening procedures – the Thompson-Lofgren Secure Refugee Process Act. This legislation would: Require five federal agencies - the Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of State, the Department of Defense, and the Office of the Director of National Intelligence – to check refugee applications against their records before a refugee could set foot on U.S. soil. Any application that indicated a national security or criminal threat would be DENIED. Require the Secretary of Homeland Security to verify the identity of refugee applicants before a refugee could set foot on U.S. soil. Any application that contained insufficient, conflicting, or unreliable information would be DENIED. Require the Secretary of Homeland Security to certify that the all relevant Federal immigration laws had been complied with, and that the applicant had not been resettled in a safe third-party country, before a refugee could set foot on U.S. soil. Require the Department of Homeland Security Inspector General to submit monthly reports to Congress on refugee applications from Syrians and Iraqis. The Thompson-Lofgren Secure Refugee Process Act would strengthen the existing refugee screening process, in marked contrast to the bill that passed the House, the McCaul-Hudson bill, which would for the most part just create more red tape and paperwork without making our country any safer. I voted in favor of the stronger bill. Like most Members of Congress, I want to help the desperate, vulnerable refugees fleeing ISIS and its campaign of murder and destruction in Syria. Also like most of my colleagues, I want to take every reasonable step to protect US citizens and our society from terrorists at home and abroad. I believe that we can do both. We’ve got a thorough, high-quality security process for screening refugees in place today. This process involves the FBI, the National Counter-terrorism Center, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State, and the Department of Defense – and it takes 18-24 months to complete. Anyone who doesn’t pass this screening process isn’t allowed into our country. Less than 10 percent of Syrians who apply to enter the country as refugees are approved. Of the few we do let in, 98 percent are women and children. I support making the changes contained in the Thompson-Lofgren Secure Refugee Process Act to make our refugee screening process even stronger. If House Republicans were really serious about making this country safer and reducing the terrorist threat facing Americans here at home, they would have supported the Thompson-Lofgren Secure Refugee Process Act. They didn’t. If House Republicans were really serious about making this country safer and reducing the terrorist threat facing Americans here at home, they would be bringing up legislation to close the loophole in the visa waiver program that allows terrorists from dozens of countries to enter the United States legally without a visa, without a background check, and without delay. At least six of the Paris attackers were French and Belgian citizens – they wouldn’t have had to go through the comprehensive 18- to 24-month background check that Syrian refugees do; they could have hopped on a plane and flown here legally. But House Republicans haven’t addressed this potentially serious threat. If House Republicans were really serious about making this country safer and reducing the terrorist threat facing Americans here at home, they would be bringing up legislation to close the loophole that allows firearms purchases in this country by individuals who are on the terrorist watch list. According to the Associated Press, 247 people on the federal government’s terrorist watch list legally purchased guns from licensed firearms dealers in the United States last year. It shouldn’t be legal for someone on the terrorist watch list to buy a gun. Congress should close that loophole, too, and that’s why I’m cosponsoring HR 1076, legislation that would authorize the Attorney General to prohibit the sale of firearms and explosives to individuals that have engaged in terrorism or provided material support for terrorist activities. Unfortunately, the House GOP leadership hasn’t allowed a vote on such legislation. I hope that we can get down to work soon on bipartisan legislation that makes real improvements in the security programs set up to protect our citizens from terrorists.
11.10.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement today: “I will be part of a delegation of businesspeople, academics, government officials, and individuals that will be traveling to Cuba this week for meetings to explore possible partnerships that would be of benefit to Southwestern Pennsylvania. “The changing relationship between the United States and Cuba could open up significant economic opportunities for our region. “The Pittsburgh delegation has meetings scheduled with Cuban government, education, and business leaders in which we hope to explore opportunities for investment in sectors like energy innovation, telecommunications, agriculture, and sports, as well as to lay the groundwork for student exchanges and increased travel opportunities between Pittsburgh and Cuba.” # # #
10.27.2015	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) and Chris Smith (R-NJ-4) today praised Sesame Workshop, the nonprofit educational organization behind Sesame Street, for its roll-out of a campaign to educate families, teachers, and caregivers about autism. “I want to commend Sesame Street’s ‘See Amazing in All Children’ campaign, which is intended to educate families, teachers, and caregivers about autism – and in doing so, help to de-stigmatize Autism Spectrum Disorder,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Children with autism who receive early intervention and treatments following an ASD diagnosis demonstrate significant improvement in their long-term development and quality of life,” said Congressman Smith. “We also need to continue to focus on raising awareness about autism as an effective means to prevent the recent tragedies we have seen involving bullying of autistic youth and young adults.” “This initiative includes the development of more autism-friendly programming, web-based content, and apps for mobile devices along with Julia, the first autistic muppet,” Congressman Doyle added. “It’s great that autistic children will be able to see someone like them onscreen. Not only will Sesame Street be telling autistic kids that they are a valuable part of our community; it will also be bringing that message to other kids and teaching them the best ways to be more inclusive and help autistic children overcome some of the obstacles they may face.” “Sesame Street and Autism is a powerful example of the unique role Sesame Street can play in addressing real world issues impacting children, helping all kids grow smarter, stronger and kinder,” said Sherrie Westin, Executive Vice President, Global Impact and Philanthropy at Sesame Workshop. “The response to Julia and this initiative has been overwhelming and we were thrilled to be invited by Representatives Doyle and Smith to share these critical resources with Congress.” Representatives Doyle and Smith, the co-founders and Co-Chairs of the Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE), praised Sesame Street at a briefing the caucus held today in Washington. Dr. Jeanette Betancourt, Senior Vice President for U.S. Social Impact at the Sesame Workshop, discussed the campaign, along with the three-year process Sesame Workshop undertook to develop it in collaboration with many different stakeholders. The briefing also featured a presentation by Dr. Jennifer Stapel-Wax, Associate Professor at Emory University School of Medicine and Director of Infant and Toddler Clinical Research Operations at the Marcus Autism Center in Atlanta, who discussed her research on the science behind early intervention, the barriers to early screening and detection, the core components of intervention for infants and toddlers, different types of intervention, and the best practices to date. “Earlier diagnosis coupled with early intervention and comprehensive family support show great potential to improve the life-outcomes of children with autism,” Congressman Doyle noted in his remarks at the briefing. “Early intervention can improve language skills and socialization, impact brain growth, and reduce lifetime care costs by two thirds. The CDC has concluded that intervention has the greatest impact on autism if it begins before three years of age. Unfortunately, we as a nation are currently failing to help the vast majority – 80 percent – of the children who could benefit from early intervention.” Representatives Doyle and Smith are currently in the process of sending a letter to OMB asking the Administration to include funding in its next budget for an initiative to get more children tested for autism at an early age. # # #
10.14.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) and Ranking Member of the Communications and Technology Subcommittee Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA-18) welcomed the Federal Communications Commission’s announcement today that it would begin investigating allegations that major telecom companies in the United States have been stifling competition in the $40 billion a year market for special access. The announcement of this investigation comes in the midst of the Commission’s examination of anti-competitive practices in the special access market by incumbent telecom companies. “We welcome the FCC’s announcement of its investigation into the terms and conditions being offered for special access services. For too long, companies that utilize special access service have alleged that these services are only offered with unreasonable conditions attached, aimed at driving competitors out of this space. Investigating these allegations is a critical part of the FCC’s ongoing evaluation of special access and Chairman Wheeler’s broader efforts to enable a more competitive telecommunications marketplace.” “We believe that initiating this investigation in conjunction with the Commission’s efforts to examine allegations of anti-competitive practices of special access lines are both critical steps in reforming this marketplace.” Special access services are wholesale data lines leased by smaller carriers from larger incumbents like AT&T, Verizon, Frontier, and Century Link; and offered to small and medium sized organizations as dedicated data and voice services. They are used to operate private academic and business networks, connect cell towers to backbone, process credit card payments, and wide variety of other purposes. For most special access customers these lines are the only alternative to similar services offered by the large incumbents. Congressman Doyle and Ranking Member Eshoo have been urging the FCC to move forward on special access reform for nearly a decade, repeatedly calling on the FCC to advance reforms to this critical marketplace. ###
09.24.2015	Pope Francis spoke to a Joint Meeting of Congress on September 24, 2015. Here are his prepared remarks: Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Speaker, Honorable Members of Congress, Dear Friends, I am most grateful for your invitation to address this Joint Session of Congress in "the land of the free and the home of the brave". I would like to think that the reason for this is that I too am a son of this great continent, from which we have all received so much and toward which we share a common responsibility. Each son or daughter of a given country has a mission, a personal and social responsibility. Your own responsibility as members of Congress is to enable this country, by your legislative activity, to grow as a nation. You are the face of its people, their representatives. You are called to defend and preserve the dignity of your fellow citizens in the tireless and demanding pursuit of the common good, for this is the chief aim of all politics. A political society endures when it seeks, as a vocation, to satisfy common needs by stimulating the growth of all its members, especially those in situations of greater vulnerability or risk. Legislative activity is always based on care for the people. To this you have been invited, called and convened by those who elected you. Yours is a work which makes me reflect in two ways on the figure of Moses. On the one hand, the patriarch and lawgiver of the people of Israel symbolizes the need of peoples to keep alive their sense of unity by means of just legislation. On the other, the figure of Moses leads us directly to God and thus to the transcendent dignity of the human being. Moses provides us with a good synthesis of your work: you are asked to protect, by means of the law, the image and likeness fashioned by God on every human face. Today I would like not only to address you, but through you the entire people of the United States. Here, together with their representatives, I would like to take this opportunity to dialogue with the many thousands of men and women who strive each day to do an honest day’s work, to bring home their daily bread, to save money and –one step at a time – to build a better life for their families. These are men and women who are not concerned simply with paying their taxes, but in their own quiet way sustain the life of society. They generate solidarity by their actions, and they create organizations which offer a helping hand to those most in need. I would also like to enter into dialogue with the many elderly persons who are a storehouse of wisdom forged by experience, and who seek in many ways, especially through volunteer work, to share their stories and their insights. I know that many of them are retired, but still active; they keep working to build up this land. I also want to dialogue with all those young people who are working to realize their great and noble aspirations, who are not led astray by facile proposals, and who face difficult situations, often as a result of immaturity on the part of many adults. I wish to dialogue with all of you, and I would like to do so through the historical memory of your people. My visit takes place at a time when men and women of good will are marking the anniversaries of several great Americans. The complexities of history and the reality of human weakness notwithstanding, these men and women, for all their many differences and limitations, were able by hard work and self- sacrifice – some at the cost of their lives – to build a better future. They shaped fundamental values which will endure forever in the spirit of the American people. A people with this spirit can live through many crises, tensions and conflicts, while always finding the resources to move forward, and to do so with dignity. These men and women offer us a way of seeing and interpreting reality. In honoring their memory, we are inspired, even amid conflicts, and in the here and now of each day, to draw upon our deepest cultural reserves. I would like to mention four of these Americans: Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Dorothy Day and Thomas Merton. This year marks the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln, the guardian of liberty, who labored tirelessly that "this nation, under God, [might] have a new birth of freedom". Building a future of freedom requires love of the common good and cooperation in a spirit of subsidiarity and solidarity. All of us are quite aware of, and deeply worried by, the disturbing social and political situation of the world today. Our world is increasingly a place of violent conflict, hatred and brutal atrocities, committed even in the name of God and of religion. We know that no religion is immune from forms of individual delusion or ideological extremism. This means that we must be especially attentive to every type of fundamentalism, whether religious or of any other kind. A delicate balance is required to combat violence perpetrated in the name of a religion, an ideology or an economic system, while also safeguarding religious freedom, intellectual freedom and individual freedoms. But there is another temptation which we must especially guard against: the simplistic reductionism which sees only good or evil; or, if you will, the righteous and sinners. The contemporary world, with its open wounds which affect so many of our brothers and sisters, demands that we confront every form of polarization which would divide it into these two camps. We know that in the attempt to be freed of the enemy without, we can be tempted to feed the enemy within. To imitate the hatred and violence of tyrants and murderers is the best way to take their place. That is something which you, as a people, reject. Our response must instead be one of hope and healing, of peace and justice. We are asked to summon the courage and the intelligence to resolve today’s many geopolitical and economic crises. Even in the developed world, the effects of unjust structures and actions are all too apparent. Our efforts must aim at restoring hope, righting wrongs, maintaining commitments, and thus promoting the well-being of individuals and of peoples. We must move forward together, as one, in a renewed spirit of fraternity and solidarity, cooperating generously for the common good. The challenges facing us today call for a renewal of that spirit of cooperation, which has accomplished so much good throughout the history of the United States. The complexity, the gravity and the urgency of these challenges demand that we pool our resources and talents, and resolve to support one another, with respect for our differences and our convictions of conscience. In this land, the various religious denominations have greatly contributed to building and strengthening society. It is important that today, as in the past, the voice of faith continue to be heard, for it is a voice of fraternity and love, which tries to bring out the best in each person and in each society. Such cooperation is a powerful resource in the battle to eliminate new global forms of slavery, born of grave injustices which can be overcome only through new policies and new forms of social consensus. Here I think of the political history of the United States, where democracy is deeply rooted in the mind of the American people. All political activity must serve and promote the good of the human person and be based on respect for his or her dignity. "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" (Declaration of Independence, 4 July 1776). If politics must truly be at the service of the human person, it follows that it cannot be a slave to the economy and finance. Politics is, instead, an expression of our compelling need to live as one, in order to build as one the greatest common good: that of a community which sacrifices particular interests in order to share, in justice and peace, its goods, its interests, its social life. I do not underestimate the difficulty that this involves, but I encourage you in this effort. Here too I think of the march which Martin Luther King led from Selma to Montgomery fifty years ago as part of the campaign to fulfill his "dream" of full civil and political rights for African Americans. That dream continues to inspire us all. I am happy that America continues to be, for many, a land of "dreams". Dreams which lead to action, to participation, to commitment. Dreams which awaken what is deepest and truest in the life of a people. In recent centuries, millions of people came to this land to pursue their dream of building a future in freedom. We, the people of this continent, are not fearful of foreigners, because most of us were once foreigners. I say this to you as the son of immigrants, knowing that so many of you are also descended from immigrants. Tragically, the rights of those who were here long before us were not always respected. For those peoples and their nations, from the heart of American democracy, I wish to reaffirm my highest esteem and appreciation. Those first contacts were often turbulent and violent, but it is difficult to judge the past by the criteria of the present. Nonetheless, when the stranger in our midst appeals to us, we must not repeat the sins and the errors of the past. We must resolve now to live as nobly and as justly as possible, as we educate new generations not to turn their back on our "neighbors" and everything around us. Building a nation calls us to recognize that we must constantly relate to others, rejecting a mindset of hostility in order to adopt one of reciprocal subsidiarity, in a constant effort to do our best. I am confident that we can do this. Our world is facing a refugee crisis of a magnitude not seen since the Second World War. This presents us with great challenges and many hard decisions. On this continent, too, thousands of persons are led to travel north in search of a better life for themselves and for their loved ones, in search of greater opportunities. Is this not what we want for our own children? We must not be taken aback by their numbers, but rather view them as persons, seeing their faces and listening to their stories, trying to respond as best we can to their situation. To respond in a way which is always humane, just and fraternal. We need to avoid a common temptation nowadays: to discard whatever proves troublesome. Let us remember the Golden Rule: "Do unto others as you would have them do unto you" (Mt 7:12). This Rule points us in a clear direction. Let us treat others with the same passion and compassion with which we want to be treated. Let us seek for others the same possibilities which we seek for ourselves. Let us help others to grow, as we would like to be helped ourselves. In a word, if we want security, let us give security; if we want life, let us give life; if we want opportunities, let us provide opportunities. The yardstick we use for others will be the yardstick which time will use for us. The Golden Rule also reminds us of our responsibility to protect and defend human life at every stage of its development. This conviction has led me, from the beginning of my ministry, to advocate at different levels for the global abolition of the death penalty. I am convinced that this way is the best, since every life is sacred, every human person is endowed with an inalienable dignity, and society can only benefit from the rehabilitation of those convicted of crimes. Recently my brother bishops here in the United States renewed their call for the abolition of the death penalty. Not only do I support them, but I also offer encouragement to all those who are convinced that a just and necessary punishment must never exclude the dimension of hope and the goal of rehabilitation. In these times when social concerns are so important, I cannot fail to mention the Servant of God Dorothy Day, who founded the Catholic Worker Movement. Her social activism, her passion for justice and for the cause of the oppressed, were inspired by the Gospel, her faith, and the example of the saints. How much progress has been made in this area in so many parts of the world! How much has been done in these first years of the third millennium to raise people out of extreme poverty! I know that you share my conviction that much more still needs to be done, and that in times of crisis and economic hardship a spirit of global solidarity must not be lost. At the same time I would encourage you to keep in mind all those people around us who are trapped in a cycle of poverty. They too need to be given hope. The fight against poverty and hunger must be fought constantly and on many fronts, especially in its causes. I know that many Americans today, as in the past, are working to deal with this problem. It goes without saying that part of this great effort is the creation and distribution of wealth. The right use of natural resources, the proper application of technology and the harnessing of the spirit of enterprise are essential elements of an economy which seeks to be modern, inclusive and sustainable. "Business is a noble vocation, directed to producing wealth and improving the world. It can be a fruitful source of prosperity for the area in which it operates, especially if it sees the creation of jobs as an essential part of its service to the common good" (Laudato Si’, 129). This common good also includes the earth, a central theme of the encyclical which I recently wrote in order to "enter into dialogue with all people about our common home" (ibid., 3). "We need a conversation which includes everyone, since the environmental challenge we are undergoing, and its human roots, concern and affect us all" (ibid., 14). In Laudato Si’, I call for a courageous and responsible effort to "redirect our steps" (ibid., 61), and to avert the most serious effects of the environmental deterioration caused by human activity. I am convinced that we can make a difference and I have no doubt that the United States – and this Congress – have an important role to play. Now is the time for courageous actions and strategies, aimed at implementing a "culture of care" (ibid., 231) and "an integrated approach to combating poverty, restoring dignity to the excluded, and at the same time protecting nature" (ibid., 139). "We have the freedom needed to limit and direct technology" (ibid., 112); "to devise intelligent ways of... developing and limiting our power" (ibid., 78); and to put technology "at the service of another type of progress, one which is healthier, more human, more social, more integral" (ibid., 112). In this regard, I am confident that America’s outstanding academic and research institutions can make a vital contribution in the years ahead. A century ago, at the beginning of the Great War, which Pope Benedict XV termed a "pointless slaughter", another notable American was born: the Cistercian monk Thomas Merton. He remains a source of spiritual inspiration and a guide for many people. In his autobiography he wrote: "I came into the world. Free by nature, in the image of God, I was nevertheless the prisoner of my own violence and my own selfishness, in the image of the world into which I was born. That world was the picture of Hell, full of men like myself, loving God, and yet hating him; born to love him, living instead in fear of hopeless self-contradictory hungers". Merton was above all a man of prayer, a thinker who challenged the certitudes of his time and opened new horizons for souls and for the Church. He was also a man of dialogue, a promoter of peace between peoples and religions. From this perspective of dialogue, I would like to recognize the efforts made in recent months to help overcome historic differences linked to painful episodes of the past. It is my duty to build bridges and to help all men and women, in any way possible, to do the same. When countries which have been at odds resume the path of dialogue – a dialogue which may have been interrupted for the most legitimate of reasons – new opportunities open up for all. This has required, and requires, courage and daring, which is not the same as irresponsibility. A good political leader is one who, with the interests of all in mind, seizes the moment in a spirit of openness and pragmatism. A good political leader always opts to initiate processes rather than possessing spaces (cf. Evangelii Gaudium, 222-223). Being at the service of dialogue and peace also means being truly determined to minimize and, in the long term, to end the many armed conflicts throughout our world. Here we have to ask ourselves: Why are deadly weapons being sold to those who plan to inflict untold suffering on individuals and society? Sadly, the answer, as we all know, is simply for money: money that is drenched in blood, often innocent blood. In the face of this shameful and culpable silence, it is our duty to confront the problem and to stop the arms trade. Three sons and a daughter of this land, four individuals and four dreams: Lincoln, liberty; Martin Luther King, liberty in plurality and non-exclusion; Dorothy Day, social justice and the rights of persons; and Thomas Merton, the capacity for dialogue and openness to God. Four representatives of the American people. I will end my visit to your country in Philadelphia, where I will take part in the World Meeting of Families. It is my wish that throughout my visit the family should be a recurrent theme. How essential the family has been to the building of this country! And how worthy it remains of our support and encouragement! Yet I cannot hide my concern for the family, which is threatened, perhaps as never before, from within and without. Fundamental relationships are being called into question, as is the very basis of marriage and the family. I can only reiterate the importance and, above all, the richness and the beauty of family life. In particular, I would like to call attention to those family members who are the most vulnerable, the young. For many of them, a future filled with countless possibilities beckons, yet so many others seem disoriented and aimless, trapped in a hopeless maze of violence, abuse and despair. Their problems are our problems. We cannot avoid them. We need to face them together, to talk about them and to seek effective solutions rather than getting bogged down in discussions. At the risk of oversimplifying, we might say that we live in a culture which pressures young people not to start a family, because they lack possibilities for the future. Yet this same culture presents others with so many options that they too are dissuaded from starting a family. A nation can be considered great when it defends liberty as Lincoln did, when it fosters a culture which enables people to "dream" of full rights for all their brothers and sisters, as Martin Luther King sought to do; when it strives for justice and the cause of the oppressed, as Dorothy Day did by her tireless work, the fruit of a faith which becomes dialogue and sows peace in the contemplative style of Thomas Merton. In these remarks I have sought to present some of the richness of your cultural heritage, of the spirit of the American people. It is my desire that this spirit continue to develop and grow, so that as many young people as possible can inherit and dwell in a land which has inspired so many people to dream. God bless America!
09.01.2015	Washington, D.C. – September 1, 2015 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced today that he supports the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) under which the government of Iran would stop pursuing the material and technology needed to produce nuclear weapons. Congressman Doyle made the announcement in an op-ed piece published in the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette today. Here is the op-ed he submitted to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Mike Doyle: Why I will vote for the Iran deal It’s the best chance we’ll have to prevent Iran from building a nuclear weapon When Congress returns, we will face one of the most serious global security decisions since the Iraq war vote. Today, Iran has the uranium and enrichment capacity (20,000 centrifuges) it needs to produce the fuel for 8 to 10 nuclear bombs within 2-3 months. Iran has gotten this close to a bomb despite strong international sanctions that have crippled its economy. We all share a common objective: preventing Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons. The question before Congress is whether the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) is the best way to achieve that goal. I’ve approached this decision the same way I did when I decided to oppose the war in Iraq – without regard for partisan politics. I’ve read the JCPOA, attended classified briefings, spoken to our lead technical expert, Secretary of Energy Moniz, and our lead negotiator, Secretary of State Kerry – and I’ve met with constituents who hold passionate views on both sides of the issue. After consideration of all the analyses and arguments for and against, and after much reflection, I have concluded that the JCPOA, while not perfect, gives us the best chance of stopping Iran from developing a nuclear weapon. The JCPOA includes a direct commitment by Iran to never develop or acquire a nuclear weapon. The agreement also includes a permanent ban on Iranian development of key nuclear weaponization capabilities. Iran needs enriched uranium or plutonium to make a nuclear weapon. The JCPOA blocks both of these pathways. This agreement requires Iran to reduce its stockpile of uranium by 98% and to mothball 75% of its centrifuges. The 300 kg of uranium Iran will keep will not be weapons grade, nor will it be enough to make a weapon. The centrifuges that will be left in operation will be the least efficient, and Iran has agreed that all its centrifuges will be constantly monitored for the next 20 years. The only site where Iran could produce weapons-grade plutonium is the Arak nuclear reactor. Under the JCPOA, this reactor will be rebuilt so it cannot produce any weapons-grade plutonium, and all its spent fuel rods, a source of weapons-grade plutonium, will be sent out of the country. In addition, the JCPOA prohibits Iran from building another such reactor for at least 15 years. Finally, under this agreement Iran has committed to extraordinarily intrusive monitoring and inspection. Inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) will not only be monitoring every element of Iran’s declared nuclear program, but they will be verifying that no nuclear material is covertly diverted to a secret location to build a bomb. Iran has agreed to allow IAEA inspectors to inspect any site they deem suspicious. If, and only if, Iran complies with these steps, which is likely to take nearly a year, will international sanctions be suspended and $56 billion of Iranian funds that are currently frozen in foreign banks be released. If Iran violates the terms of the deal, sanctions can be “snapped back” into place quickly. Nothing in the agreement stops this President or any future President from using all available options should Iran try to build a nuclear weapon. This agreement is not based on trust, but on strong verification requirements. All of Iran’s nuclear facilities – as well as its entire nuclear supply chain – will be under 24/7 human, photographic, and electronic surveillance for 20 years. This gives the United States and our partners unprecedented access, intelligence, time, and options to respond should we suspect that Iran has violated this agreement. I have no doubt that Iran will remain a hostile regime and pose a significant threat to the United States, Israel, and our allies, but this agreement serves to take the greatest threat off the table, namely Iran acquiring a nuclear weapon. A nuclear-armed Iran is an existential threat to Israel and the United States. This agreement will make Israel and America safer. Many who oppose this agreement have called for a “better deal.” This alternative refers to the United States threatening to deny our closest economic and diplomatic allies access to the American economy unless they re-impose sanctions. This is a far-fetched and self-destructive strategy; 40% of our exports go to those countries, and we’d destroy American jobs and devastate our economy with that approach. Our trading partners know we’d never risk that. This is clearly not a realistic alternative. During my service in Congress, I have always believed that we must pursue diplomacy before confrontation, and that war should always be a last resort. I cannot ask the sons and daughters of the families I represent to fight a war without being able to look them in the eye and tell them we have exhausted all available diplomatic means. Congress should give this agreement a chance to work, and I intend to support it. # # #
07.17.2015	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) hosted U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz at a breakfast meeting this morning with local energy innovation leaders followed by a tour of the Energy Innovation Center. “There are a lot of important, exciting developments on the energy front taking place in Pittsburgh today,” Congressman Doyle said at the meeting. “I believe that with so many leaders in so many different energy sectors, Pittsburgh could well dominate energy markets in the coming century the way Saudi Arabia did in the last one – creating jobs and prosperity in the process. Consequently, I’ve worked to support a number of energy initiatives in southwestern Pennsylvania, and I wanted Secretary Moniz to see some of the exciting advances in energy technology taking place in Pittsburgh.” “The Energy Innovation Center is a shining example of the bright energy ideas coming out of Pittsburgh,” Secretary Moniz said. “The EIC has great potential to promote the commercialization and widespread adoption of the clean energy advances that are being made in this region. I’ve worked extensively with Mike Doyle on energy issues in Washington, and today I saw how committed he is to pushing new energy technologies here in Pittsburgh that will improve our entire nation's economy, environment, national security, and quality of life.” The meeting was followed by a tour of the Energy Innovation Center, a Pittsburgh-based, not-for-profit workforce training facility and small business incubator. Its mission is to help develop and commercialize clean “green” energy technologies – and to provide local workers with the skills needed to get good jobs in this growing energy sector. The Energy Innovation Center, which is located in the former Connelley Vocational High School, is also intended to promote the revitalization of the Lower Hill District. The Energy Innovation Center is one of a number of significant energy-related initiatives underway in Southwestern Pennsylvania – ranging from reducing the environmental impact of traditional fossil fuels to increasing energy-efficiency to developing alternative and renewable energy. “Five years ago our region’s government leaders envisioned a center where corporations and educational institutions could integrate research and workforce development,” noted Robert A. Meeder, President and CEO of the Energy Innovation Center. “Today the EIC has infused the products and processes of more than 130 corporations, large and small, into this campus. Now, we are preparing the shops and labs for, at minimum, seven educational institutions.” “I worked hard over a number of years with Jim Ferlo, Pittsburgh Gateways, and a host of partners to transform the Connelley Vocational School into this Energy Innovation Center, a LEED-certified 21st century business incubator, laboratory space, and job training facility focused on green energy technology,” Congressman Doyle observed. “We believe that the Energy Innovation Center will promote Pittsburgh’s growth as a leader in the energy industry. It’s intended to be a one-stop shop for facilitating the commercialization and widespread adoption of clean energy advances made in this region.” ###
07.10.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement in response to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler ’s announcement earlier today about the transition from traditional copper networks to IP networks. “I welcome Chairman Wheeler’s proposal to protect consumers and promote competition as our nation continues to modernize its communications infrastructure. “I want to commend the Chairman in particular for addressing the fact that the market for competitive enterprise telecommunications services relies on existing infrastructure to deliver voice and data service to thousands of schools, hospitals, and small businesses around the country at competitive rates. His proposal today would go a long way towards ensuring that customers’ access to those competitively priced services continues during and after this transition. “This proposal would ensure that, despite major changes in technology, consumers would still benefit from a competitive telecommunications market. I think this is an essential step towards that goal, and I look forward to further action by the Commission to update and reexamine its policies to ensure that they keep pace with innovation and technological advances.” Click here for a fact sheet on Chairman Wheeler’s proposal. ###
06.24.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced that he and Chris Smith (NJ-4) had reintroduced the Pet Safety and Protection Act, legislation to protect companion animals from illegal sale for use in laboratory experiments. The Pet Safety and Protection Act would prohibit “Class B” animal dealers from selling dogs and cats to researchers. "Class B dealers have racked up an atrocious record of illegal activity and cruelty to animals,” Congressman Doyle said today. "This program has been an unmitigated disaster – and worst of all, it’s unnecessary. Congress should have shut it down years ago. That's why we're re-introducing the Pet Safety and Protection Act – to end the Class B dealer debacle once and for all." “Class B dealers have routinely failed to meet basic Animal Welfare Act Standards and there is no sign they will ever improve," remarked Congressman Smith. "Reputable research institutes do not use Class B dealers because of the serious problems associated with them and their troubled past. Closing them down once and for all will give people greater confidence in our research programs and go a long way toward reducing animal cruelty." Animal Welfare Institute Senior Policy Advisor Nancy Blaney urged legislators to pass the bill during this Congress, noting: "Without this bill, USDA will continue to waste valuable resources on the hyper-vigilance these dealers require. Most researchers do not use Class B dealers to acquire dogs and cats, and it is time for the remainder who do to end their embarrassing association with them." Currently, two types of animal dealers are licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) – Class A or “purpose-bred” dealers and Class B or “random source” dealers. Class A dealers are highly regulated businesses that raise their own animals. Class B dealers, in contrast, routinely buy dogs and cats from a vast network of suppliers with murky backgrounds. Many of these suppliers obtain dogs and cats they sell to Class B dealers by stealing them – or by responding to “free to good home” advertisements and posing as pet owners willing to provide a good home to a family pet. Class B dealers pay suppliers for each animal, creating enough of a financial incentive that a number of individuals steal pet dogs and cats from owners’ properties and falsify records to keep their true origins unknown. In addition, some Class B dealers have unofficial relationships with pounds, shelters, or “humane societies” to buy surplus animals. Although the law currently requires any stray animal to be held for at least 5 days at such facilities, it does not prevent pets from being kept out of sight, or transported to an out-of-state location for this time period, making it impossible for concerned pet owners to locate a beloved pet. The 2006 HBO documentary “Dealing Dogs” illustrated the illegal and inhumane trade in stray animals and family pets, as well as the neglect and outright cruelty with which some Class B dealers treat these animals. This film contains disturbing video footage collected by an undercover investigator who worked in several Class B dealers’ facilities. Among the abuses documented in this film are overcrowded cages, rotten food, food contaminated with feces, frozen drinking water, dogs with serious untreated injuries and diseases, and live dogs caged with the carcasses of dead dogs. In addition, this investigation documented the beating, strangulation, and shooting of dogs by Class B dealers. The few remaining Class B dealers these dealers have a history of violations of the Animal Welfare Act. The U.S. Department of Agriculture spends hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars each year unsuccessfully trying to regulate Class B dealers and has acknowledged that it can't guarantee that dogs and cats are not being illegally acquired for use in experimental procedures. The 110th Congress directed the National Academies to examine the issue and determine whether the Class B dealer system should be continued. In May of 2009, the National Academies released its report on the Class B dealer system. The National Academies concluded that: “Although random source dogs and cats represent a very small percentage of animals used in biomedical research, this small number is not commensurate with their potential value, and it is desirable to assure continued access to animals with random source qualities. This access can be accomplished with existing alternative mechanisms other than Class B dealers and can be assured with additional effort. The Committee thus determined that Class B dealers are not necessary for supplying dogs and cats for NIH-funded research.” “The National Academies study puts to rest any remaining concerns about the desirability of eliminating the Class B dealer system,” Congressman Doyle stated shortly after the study was released. “If NIH doesn’t need Class B dealers, it’s highly unlikely any other legitimate researcher does. It’s past time for Congress to protect American families and their companion animals and pass this bill.” ###
06.19.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s vote yesterday to expand the Lifeline program and extend broadband Internet access to all Americans. “I want to commend the Federal Communications Commission for its decision to expand the Lifeline program to cover access to broadband. "By covering internet services, the federal government is updating this program to reflect the technological reality of life today – internet access is essential for a number of fundamental activities of life – from acquiring an education and essential job skills to applying for jobs. "This is a great step forward towards ensuring that all Americans have access to what has become an invaluable resource and transformational tool.” ###
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Members of Pennsylvania’s Congressional delegation issued a joint statement welcoming Pope Francis’s call for action on climate change in the encyclical “Laudato Si.” The statement, organized by Pittsburgh area Congressman Doyle (PA-14), reads: “We welcome the Pope’s encyclical on the need for the world to address climate change. We think it’s only appropriate that one of the world’s most influential religious leaders is speaking out about what we believe to be one of the most important moral issues of our time. The Pope accepts the overwhelming international scientific consensus that human production of greenhouse gases is causing global climate change – change characterized by more frequent extreme weather conditions and a rising sea level. Scientists tell us that these changes will hurt poor and vulnerable people around the world disproportionately hard. We share the Pope’s belief that we should all be good stewards of God’s creation, preserve it for future generations, and care for our vulnerable brothers and sisters. Climate change is a clear threat to those responsibilities. That’s why we believe the federal government should adopt policies to halt climate change and help poor and vulnerable people who are suffering disproportionately from its effects. Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) Congressman Bob Brady (PA-1) Congressman Matt Cartwright (PA-17) Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13)" In “Laudato Si,” the encyclical issued today, Pope Francis dedicated a large portion of his message to addressing climate change. His message focused on the impacts of climate change, including flooding, extreme storms, devastating heat waves, and failing crops that are impacting the poor around the world. Pope Francis called on elected officials around the world to move quickly to slash the carbon pollution that is fueling climate change. ###
06.17.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced today that he and several other Members of Congress had sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Tom Wheeler urging the FCC to consider expanding its wireless broadband incentive auction’s spectrum reserve to at least four blocks of high-quality spectrum. “Meaningful competition in the wireless broadband market is essential if we want to promote lower costs and higher quality service for consumers,” Congressman Doyle said today in announcing that he and his colleagues had sent FCC Chairman Wheeler this letter. ”We are very concerned that the spectrum reserve the FCC has included in its incentive auction isn’t large enough to prevent the current dominant providers from squeezing out the smaller ones in many spectrum markets.” Representatives Jared Polis, Suzan DelBene, and Adam Smith joined Congressman Doyle in sending the letter to FCC Chairman Wheeler. The text of the letter follows below. June 17, 2015 The Honorable Tom Wheeler Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street S.W. Washington, D.C. 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler: We commend the Federal Communications Commission for its progress in preparing for the broadcast incentive auction scheduled for 2016. We urge the FCC to take additional measures to ensure the incentive auction increases competition in the wireless broadband market. The Department of Justice has warned – and the FCC has agreed – that the incentive auction threatens to foreclose future competition in the wireless broadband market. To protect competition and prevent gaming, the FCC created a market-based spectrum reserve in each market that prevents dominant providers from knocking non-dominant providers out of the bidding in the hopes of raising prices or reducing quality later. As currently structured, however, the FCC has adopted a three-block reserve that is not large enough to allow more than one non-dominant carrier the opportunity to acquire enough spectrum for a commercially successful deployment. Expanding the spectrum reserve from its current maximum to at least four blocks, or 40 megahertz of high-quality spectrum, will enhance post-auction competition in the mobile broadband market by allowing for up to two non-dominant competitors to acquire the low-band spectrum they need to deploy reliable broadband service. Increasing the number of broadband providers with access to low-band spectrum promises to increase broadband investment, accelerate deployment, and enhance innovation in rural and urban areas alike. Absent such an expansion, dominant carriers have the incentive and ability to limit competition in the post-auction market while splitting the non-reserve blocks evenly between each other – an auction outcome that would discourage participation and threaten broadcast incentive auction revenue. The broadcast incentive auction represents the last opportunity in the foreseeable future for the FCC to provide access to the low-band spectrum necessary for robust wireless broadband competition. Expanding the size of the spectrum reserve will help ensure that this “once-in-a-lifetime” auction promotes wireless broadband investment, innovation and deployment. We, therefore, urge the FCC to consider expanding the incentive auction’s spectrum reserve to at least four blocks of high-quality spectrum. Thank you for your attention to this important issue. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Jared Polis Member of Congress Member of Congress Suzan DelBene Adam Smith Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
05.06.2015	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that Andrew Lowery from Pittsburgh’s Creative and Performing Arts School won the First Place ribbon in the 2015 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania.Mr. Lowery’s artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is a self-portrait in graphite. His work was selected out of a field of 63 entries from 15 schools in the 14th Congressional District. Cassandra Finnegan from Springdale High School was awarded second place for her watercolor and pen composition “The Early Bird.” Miranda Miller from Woodland Hills High School received third place for her acrylic on board painting entitled “Corner of Hanover and Church.” Faiza Amir from Woodland Hills High School was awarded fourth place for her acrylic painting on canvas entitled “Flat Out Majestic.” Jared Bollman from Northgate High School received the fifth place award for his untitled chalk pastel composition. “We received more than 60 impressive entries for this year’s competition, and I don’t know how the judges were able to pick a winner,” Congressman Doyle said. “The effort and dedication that these students put into their work is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be very proud of their creativity and ability.” The winners were announced and all of the participants were recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union building this evening. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the twentieth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are eligible to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event each year.” The judges awarded the following students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Andrew Beninate, Montour High School Spencer Condon, Pittsburgh CAPA Isis Duncan, Woodland Hills High School Shannon Kelly, Riverview High School (2 Honorable Mentions) Brandon Konkiel, Sto-Rox High School Katie McGregor, Montour High School Shannon Nelis, East Allegheny High School Jimmy Niu, Pittsburgh Science and Technology Natalie Walker, Sto-Rox High School ###
02.27.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to Federal Communications Commission’s decision yesterday to preempt state laws that prohibited municipalities in Tennessee and North Carolina from expanding the broadband services they provide. “Chairman Wheeler and the FCC have sent a strong message in granting these petitions. I believe that other communities around the country, both those that have deployments and those that are contemplating them, should see this as an opportunity to take action for themselves and petition the FCC to have restrictions that they face lifted.” “Empowering communities around the country to build the infrastructure that they will need for economic growth in the coming years is critical to our ability to compete globally. Municipal broadband can bring game-changing speeds to our schools and libraries, create new businesses and grow our local economies, and bring much-needed competition to the broadband marketplace.” “I will continue to fight to empower communities around the country with the flexibility they need to choose the approach that will best meet their broadband needs.” Community broadband providers in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and Wilson, North Carolina, petitioned the FCC last year to preempt the state laws that prevented them from serving customers outside their current footprint. Congressman Doyle supports the expansion of municipal broadband across the country as one of the most effective tools for getting broadband into currently under-served areas and promoting competition among broadband service providers in order to improve the quality and affordability of broadband service across the country. With that goal in mind, Congressman Doyle strongly supports the preemption of state laws intended to prevent the development of municipal broadband service. Last year, Congressman Doyle and Senator Ed Markey (D-MA) sent a letter to the FCC urging it to take whatever action was necessary, including preemption of state laws, in order to enable municipalities to make their own decisions about how to best provide broadband services in their area. Click here to learn more about Congressman Doyle’s efforts to promote municipal broadband. Click here for the Federal Communications Commission’s official announcement of its Municipal Broadband Order. ###
02.26.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to Federal Communications Commission’s vote today to issue rules to protect the Open Internet: “I applaud the FCC and Chairman Wheeler for taking this historic step to ensure that the Internet remains an open platform for free expression, innovation, and competition. “The Internet is the most powerful platform for communication and commerce ever created, and the Commission’s actions today will ensure that the Internet remains free from both government and corporate control. Innovators shouldn’t need to ask permission or pay gatekeepers to deploy new products and services online, and the FCC’s action today ensures that this remains true. “This is an incredible win for consumers, entrepreneurs, and the millions of Americans who called on the FCC to protect the Open Internet.” Click here for the Federal Communications Commission’s official announcement of its Open Internet Rules ###
02.04.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to Federal Communications Commission’s release today of it draft proposal to protect the Open Internet: “Chairman Wheeler’s proposed rules would significantly benefit the American people and the Internet at large. The proposal by the Chairman recognizes the need for strong enforceable rules that will protect consumers at the last mile and edge providers looking to provide innovative and competitive new services. It would enable the Internet to continue to be an open platform for innovation and investment. “The Chairman’s proposal rightly recognizes the importance of wireless – and the need for these rules to apply broadly to the way most Americans increasingly access the web on a daily basis. As more of us use our smart phones every day to get online, it is critical that strong Net Neutrality protections ensure that these platforms are open and competitive. “These rules also set up a much needed framework that would enable the FCC to ensure that edge providers can continue to provide new and innovative services to consumers, without having to pay tolls or gatekeeper fees in order to access or interconnect with an ISP’s network. “Finally, the proposed rules continue the Chairman’s commitment to increasing competition in the broadband marketplace by giving new entrants competitive access to broadband infrastructure essential for new build outs. “I applaud the Chairman for listening to the millions of Americans who filed comments in this proceeding and made the case for strong rules and strong action. This is their victory, and it shows that Americans have the power to make their voices heard and shape government policy.” Click here for the Federal Communications Commission’s official announcement of the proposed Open Internet Rules ###
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today in response to the release of President Obama’s budget request for Fiscal Year 2016: “I’m pleased to see that in this budget request, President Obama is following through on his State of the Union pledge to improve the lives of Middle Class Americans through lower taxes and policies to create more Middle Class jobs. “I’m also pleased that President Obama’s budget proposes a substantial increase in investment in essential infrastructure like highways, bridges, and transit. I’ve been calling for such an increase for years, and I think it’s a good place to start this year’s budget debate. “Under the President’s budget plan, these increased investments and Middle Class tax cuts would be paid for by eliminating tax loopholes for the rich and big corporations – so that the tax burden is more equitably distributed and the special interests that have benefited from the economic recovery pay their fair share of deficit reduction. “The President’s budget represents a repudiation of sequestration and the misguided “austerity” approach that has slowed down the economic recovery for the last three and a half years. Republicans in Congress should stop sabotaging our nation’s economy and work with Congressional Democrats to enact a budget along the general lines the President has proposed.” Click here for pdfs of the FY 2016 Budget, fact sheets, and more from the Office of Management and Budget. Click here for a summary of the President’s FY 2016 budget prepared by the Democratic staff of the House Budget Committee. ###
01.21.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) made the following opening statement this morning at a hearing on legislation to protect internet consumers. The hearing was held by the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. “Thank you Mr. Chairman for holding this hearing. “This draft legislation represents a step forward by my colleagues. “That being said this bill still falls far short – and does a lot more harm than good. It permanently revokes and severely weakens the Federal Communications Commission’s ability to address serious issues, including promoting broadband competition, encouraging broadband deployment, and protecting consumers and their privacy. “Technology policy needs to be flexible and not proscriptive; it needs to be adaptive and able to change to meet our future needs. The principles included in the draft bill are very similar to what the FCC proposed in its 2010 rules. But since then, we’ve seen battles between Netflix and ISPs over interconnection, renewed efforts by cities to build out their own broadband infrastructure and create jobs, and a continuing need for stronger consumer protection. “Five years is a lifetime in the technology world, and we need rules that can adapt to the pace of innovation and the new challenges it brings.” Later in the hearing, Congressman Doyle expanded on his initial remarks: “I’m very concerned about the way in which this draft legislation strips the FCC of its authority under Section 706 and prevents the FCC from giving new entrants access to key infrastructure under Title 2. “The FCC needs access to every tool in its arsenal to promote and encourage the build-out of advanced broadband infrastructure. Municipal broadband and new entrants in the marketplace like Google Fiber are driving US innovation and driving ISPs to offer faster, cheaper services by bringing much needed competition to the broadband market. These build-outs create jobs across the country, often in areas where ISPs have opted not make the investments themselves.” Chairman Upton’s draft legislation would put in place limited open Internet rules, while at the same stripping the FCC of significant statutory authority to protect the Internet, promote broadband deployment, and encourage innovation. Congressman Doyle is a senior member of both the House Energy and Commerce Committee and its Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. He has been active for years on preserving Net Neutrality, expanding Americans’ access to fast, affordable broadband Internet service, promoting competition among Internet Service Providers, and ensuring that federal communications regulations provide the greatest possible benefit to consumers. Click here and here for more information about the hearing. ###
01.14.2015	Washington, DC – January 14, 2015 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in support of President Obama’s announcement about his plan to improve Americans’ access to fast, affordable broadband Internet services. “I agree with the President that local communities need the freedom to decide for themselves how to best invest in their own infrastructure. “Last year, I joined a number of my colleagues in the House and Senate in writing to FCC Chairman Wheeler, requesting that he use all of the tools in the FCC’s arsenal to ensure that communities across the country can build the infrastructure necessary to compete in the 21st Century global economy. “Our cities and communities need access to the best tools available for bringing high speed internet infrastructure to schools and libraries, to support local business and attract new businesses, and to drive innovation and economic growth in our communities. “I will continue to fight for muni-broadband and for faster, cheaper, more competitive broadband options for all Americans.” Click here for more information about the White House broadband initiative. Click here for more information about Congressman Doyle’s efforts to expand access to fast, affordable broadband. ###
01.13.2015	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced that he has been asked to serve on the House Democratic Caucus’s new Policy and Communications Committee. “Today I was appointed to the House Democratic Caucus’s new Policy and Communications Committee, which will work to develop a united, more effective Caucus message and contrast our policies to help hard-working Americans with the House Republicans’ support for special interests” Congressman Doyle said this afternoon. “I’m honored that I was asked to work on this important endeavor,” Congressman Doyle added. “There have never been so many different sources of news and opinion as there are in today’s wireless internet age. It’s a real challenge to break through all the noise and clutter. We’re going to work on the Policy and Communications Committee to do just that – and get House Democrats’ message across to the American People. I’m looking forward to taking on this important work.” Click here for more information about the House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. ###
12.17.2014	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today about human rights violations by the Turkish government: On Sunday, December 14, Turkish police arrested nearly 30 journalists whose only offenses appear to be their association with an opposition movement and their allegations of corruption in the government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. The arrests included the general editor of the largest daily newspaper in the country. The senior expert on Turkey at Human Rights Watch concluded that “The timing and the limited evidence made public suggests these arrests are politically motivated, not based on reasonable suspicion of a criminal offense.” These arrests appear to be just the latest actions in a long series of attempts to maintain the ruling AKP party’s hold on power in the face of corruption allegations and mass protests. Turkey will cease to be a democracy and a partner with the free countries in NATO if it continues to jail journalists and opposition politicians and shuts down its free press. I deplore the suppression of free speech in Turkey. I condemn the politicization of the judiciary and the subversion of the legal system by President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AKP. The United States must insist that President Erdogan release the journalists and others his government has arrested for political reasons. I have sent a letter to Secretary of State Kerry expressing my great concern about these human rights abuses in Turkey and urging the U.S. State Department to take immediate action to convince the Erdogan regime to release its political prisoners and respect human rights, freedom of the press, and the other essential foundations of democracy. Click here to read a copy of the letter.
12.08.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced that this afternoon the House of Representatives passed legislation he introduced to name the federal courthouse in Pittsburgh after Judge Joseph F. Weis Jr., who passed away in March. “Throughout his 91 years of life, Joseph F. Weis Jr served our country with humility, integrity, and an unfailing sense of duty,” Congressman Doyle said this afternoon on the House Floor prior to the vote. “He enlisted in the Army shortly after Pearl Harbor,” Congressman Doyle noted in recognizing Weis’s exemplary military service. “He was awarded the Bronze Star for Valor and a Purple Heart with oak leaf cluster after sustaining multiple injuries in combat over the course of his service.” “After becoming a respected trial lawyer, he was elected to the Allegheny County Court of Common Pleas in 1968,” Congressman Doyle observed. “As a judge, he quickly developed a reputation for patience and hard work. He always strove to improve our judicial system, advocating for innovative courtroom technologies and enforcement of judicial ethics. Two years later, Judge Weis was appointed to the federal bench, and in 1973, he was appointed to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, one step below the Supreme Court. He served on the Court for the next 40 years, retiring just last year when he was 90. He was recognized for his outstanding service on the bench with the Devitt Award, the highest honor given to federal judges.” “Joseph F. Weis, Jr.’s life is a model all public servants should aspire to emulate,” Representative Doyle concluded. “Naming this federal court house in his honor is a fitting way to recognize his long, faithful and extremely capable service to our country, to inspire trust in the federal justice system - which he served for so long with great integrity - and provide future generations with an outstanding example of a great public servant.” This legislation, H.R. 5146, was approved by the House by voice vote. It must now be considered by the Senate. ###
11.10.2014	U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today on the President’s Open Internet Plan, which can be found at https://www.whitehouse.gov/net-neutrality. “I’m glad to see the President take a strong position in support of the Open Internet, and join with those of us who have long fought for strong Net Neutrality rules. I will continue to push the FCC to establish rules that protect and preserve the Open Internet as a platform for competition and innovation. Reclassifying broadband as a Title II service under the Communication Act is the best option available to the Commission.” “Reclassification will enable the Commission to craft enforceable rules that prohibit blocking and throttling of online content, and prevent carriers from establishing fast lanes and paid prioritization.” “I strongly encourage FCC Chairman Wheeler and the rest of the Commission to adopt the President’s proposal.” The White House today published a statement from the President supporting reclassifying broadband as a Title II service under the Communications Act. As part of the FCC’s Open Internet rule making, the Commission is considering which legal authority to use as the basis for its Net Neutrality rules. More than four million citizens submitted comments in this FCC proceeding (the most comments ever submitted in an FCC proceeding), urging the FCC to reclassify broadband as a Title II service. The FCC’s most current rulemaking effort is the result of the Commission’s 2010 Open Internet Order being struck down in part by a Federal Court in January of this year. ###
10.28.2014	PITTSBURGH – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle, Allegheny County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, State Senator Jim Brewster, State Representatives Marc Gergely and Bill Kortz and County Council Member Bob Macey were joined earlier today by federal, state, county and local officials to celebrate the completion of the William D. Mansfield Memorial Bridge. After a brief ceremony, the officials participated in a formal ribbon cutting on the almost two-year project. “Public infrastructure like the Mansfield Bridge is essential for our country’s economy, and affects the lives of Americans on a daily basis,” said Congressman Doyle. “It’s government’s responsibility to provide and maintain safe, efficient and reliable infrastructure in our communities. The Mansfield Bridge is a great example of how important such infrastructure is. It’s a main thoroughfare for the Mon Valley. Working together across all levels of government, we were able to provide the funding for this much-needed reconstruction project, while also doing what it took to ensure that this project was completed as quickly as possible with as little disruption as possible. I’m very pleased to have been part of this team.” The William D. Mansfield Memorial Bridge was originally built in 1948 to carry traffic from McKeesport and Glassport to Dravosburg over the Monongahela River. Last rehabilitated in 1982, a complete rehabilitation of the 1,934 foot, 12-span truss bridge was begun on January 12, 2012. “The completion of this project has been a long time in coming, and I’m thrilled to see the end of it for all of the residents of the Mon Valley,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “When I was on County Council, I held a series of bridge summits to focus on the county-maintained spans over the Monongahela River, including the Mansfield Bridge. Those summits were the beginning of a long road which included approximately $150 million in constructions costs; I am proud to see the groundwork that we laid 14 years ago come to fruition today.” Work consisted of a new concrete deck, sidewalks with handrails, barriers, expansion joints, expansion dams, bearings, structural steel repairs and painting of the entire 1.3 million square foot structure. The approach roadways to the bridge were also reconstructed and paved, lighting was replaced and a new sidewalk handrail was installed. “The completion of this project has improved traffic as well as the quality of life in these communities. I have no doubt that the drivers who utilize the bridge were very pleased to see the cones removed and traffic flowing as it should,” said Senator Brewster. “Although it has been a long time coming, the improvements were well worth the wait. I really commend County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, Allegheny County, PennDOT and the contractors for a job well done.” Construction work was phased to keep the bridge open to traffic at all times. The project was completed by Joseph B. Fay, Inc. three months ahead of schedule and within budget. The project cost $33.5 million - 80% of which was funded by the Federal Highway Administration, 15% by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and 5% by Allegheny County. “The Mansfield Bridge project has been on the drawing board for years, and undertaking an infrastructure improvement on that scale is not easy,” said Rep. Gergely. “Now that the work is completed on the span, the bridge today really reflects the redevelopment that is going on in our communities, and is something that we can all be proud of in the Mon Valley.” The Mansfield Bridge opened October 9, 2014 to unrestricted traffic, with all traffic control measures being removed. The only remaining work, installation of the new handrails on the approaches to the bridge, is to be completed this week. “The project team did a great job rehabilitating the entire bridge, ramps, railings and lights. I am very happy with the results of this much needed project and kudos to the hard-working men and women that made this happen,” said Rep. Kortz. “It is crucial to mention that the structural integrity has been returned as well as the aesthetics. I believe if Senator Mansfield were here today, he would be proud to see what this team has done to the bridge bearing his name.” The design for the rehabilitation of the County-owned bridge was done by Michael Baker International with SAI Consulting/Management Engineering Corporation serving as the construction manager and inspector on the project. “The Mansfield Bridge, along with other spans over the Monongahela River, has been a county priority. The project was not without its challenges due to the sheer magnitude of work,” said Council Member Macey. “Two years ago, the bridge needed repair and had reached the end of its life. It was an eyesore, but today it is beautiful.” William D. Mansfield was the publisher of the McKeesport Daily News from 1927 until his death in 1952 at the age of 74. He also served as Chair of the Republican Party of McKeesport, was a Pennsylvania State Senator from 1923-1934 and an Allegheny County Commissioner from 1932-1935. The bridge named in his honor passes over railyards, industrial sites and Route 837 to connect Fifth Avenue in McKeesport and Richland Avenue in Draovosburg. # # #
10.21.2014	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined U.S. Representative Tim Murphy (R-PA-18), local officials, and representatives of the military today in officially opening the new Commissary and Post Exchange in Moon Township. “This facility will serve thousands of active duty service members, guardsmen and reservists, retirees and their families,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I am keenly aware of the sacrifices that the men and women in our armed forces make for our country. That’s why so many of us have worked so hard for so long to make certain that our current service personnel, our retirees, and their families could continue to have access to the support services they deserve.” In 2005, the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) recommended closing the Charles E. Kelly Support Facility (CEKSF) in Oakdale. Closing the facility meant that 168,000 military personnel and veterans lost the Commissary, Post Exchange, and Military Clothing Sales Store services that they had come to rely on. In the years since then, members of the previous and current delegation took numerous steps to see the project become a reality, including fighting to keep the facility open, securing funds to build a new Commissary, and fighting to get final authorization for the project from the Department of Defense. The Army and Air Force Exchange Services also built a Post Exchange – which will provide additional services to local military personnel, retirees, and their families – adjacent to the commissary. With the construction of the commissary and a Post Exchange, many important services will continue to be available to the military families and eligible retirees in the tri-state area. These new facilities are located near several local military units – the Air Force Reserve's 911th Airlift Wing, the Pennsylvania Air National Guard's 171st Air Refueling Wing, and the Army Reserve's 316th Expeditionary Sustainment Command. “I worked with a lot of the folks who are here today for just short of ten years to ensure that we kept a commissary in this region – concerned citizens, local officials, and the local Congressional delegation,” Congressman Doyle noted. “We kept plugging away, year after year, despite delay, denial, and opposition from the Defense Department – and against all odds – this true ‘team effort’ has succeeded. It couldn’t have happened without the perseverance, hard work, and cooperation of people all over this region. I’m honored to have been a part of this remarkable community effort.” ###
09.19.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) issued the following statement today after the House voted 319-108 to approve H.J.Res. 124, a bill to provide funding for the continued operations of the federal government through December 11, 2014. Prior to the vote on final passage of H.J.Res. 124, the House voted 273-156 in favor of an amendment authorizing the U.S. Government to train and equip moderate elements of the Syrian opposition to fight the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (“ISIS,” also referred to as the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant or “ISIL”). “I share the President’s goal of dismantling and degrading ISIS, brutal religious fanatics who are terrorizing millions of innocent people in the Middle East. They pose a threat to U.S. political and economic interests abroad – and I believe they pose a serious long-term threat to the safety of Americans here at home as well. “Rolling back ISIS will most likely require ground troops, along with airpower, intelligence, and logistical support. I adamantly oppose the commitment of U.S. ground troops in Iraq or Syria, as do most Americans. I’m convinced that the deployment of U.S. ground troops in the region would be counterproductive.” “I commend the Administration for working hard to build an international coalition of countries to take on ISIS, but I cannot support training and arming so-called moderate Syrian rebels to fight ISIS. I believe that this initiative is unlikely to work. I have concerns about the loyalties of these so-called Syrian moderates, and I doubt that any amount of U.S. support would produce military units capable of fighting and defeating ISIS. We spent several years and billions of dollars training the Iraqi military, which collapsed and broke when attacked by ISIS. We devoted a lot of time and effort in Afghanistan as well, but the police and military there aren’t much to brag about, either. I think that it’s much more likely that training and arming Syrian rebels to fight ISIS would fail – and only result in more weaponry and equipment falling into the hands of ISIS. That’s why I voted against the amendment authorizing the Administration to train and arm certain Syrian rebels. “It’s my belief that the only realistic chance of defeating ISIS consists of our allies in the region providing the “boots on the ground” needed to retake the territory currently held by ISIS. The U.S. government should work with them, providing airpower and other essential support. “Iraq and Syria’s neighbors have to step up to address this threat, which is literally on their doorstep. If they’re not willing to commit ground troops, I don’t see why we should.” “I voted in favor of final passage on the Continuing Resolution, despite the inclusion of the amendment authorizing the training of Syrian rebels, because I wanted to keep the federal government running and avoid another government shutdown.” ###
09.09.2014	Washington, DC – September 9, 2014 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $1.5 million federal grant to the Sports & Exhibition Authority of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County for the planning phase of a major project to redevelop Pittsburgh’s Lower Hill District. “This is a very positive step,” Congressman Doyle said in announcing the grant. “This grant is a clear indication that the U.S. Department of Transportation wants to partner with Pittsburgh on the redevelopment of the Lower Hill District. It’s good to know that the Department believes this project has merit.” “I appreciate DoT’s support for the Lower Hill Redevelopment Improvement project,” Congressman Doyle added. “We can build on this foundation as we continue to fight for funding for this multiyear project. The redevelopment of the old Civic Arena site is going to take ten years, and this planning grant demonstrates the federal government’s commitment to the project for the long haul.” The grant announced today would fund the preliminary design for the “cap” over Interstate I-579 between Centre Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard. It came on the same day as local government, community, and Penguins officials today announced a new community collaboration plan for the development of the Hill District, a new tax increment financing district to fund improvements in six neighborhoods across the area, and an option agreement with the Penguins to be voted on later this week by the Urban Redevelopment Authority and the Sports & Exhibition Authority. “We’ve reached a transformative agreement with the community and the Penguins on a plan for moving ahead with the redevelopment of the Lower Hill District,” Congressman Doyle observed. “With this plan in place, we can now move ahead to secure the rest of the necessary funding.” “This plan will build transformational wealth for the residents of the greater Hill District,” said Pittsburgh Mayor William Peduto. “It could not have happened without the cooperation of the residents and businesses of the Hill District, the strong leadership of Congressman Mike Doyle, City Councilman Dan Lavelle, URA Chairman Kevin Acklin, County Executive Rich Fitzgerald, the Penguins and so many others. This is a historic day.” “This announcement is a step forward, and recognition that the collaboration and cooperation that has resulted in agreement on the future of this development was well worth the work,” said County Executive Rich Fitzgerald. “This planning funding will allow this core group to continue working together to move this project, and the redevelopment of the Lower Hill, forward with purpose.” "This is another positive step forward in reconnecting the Hill District to Downtown,” said Pittsburgh City Councilman R. Daniel Lavelle. “When the Crosstown Boulevard was built, the Hill was severely severed from Downtown. The planning grant to provide the cap over the boulevard would provide a much needed connection between our community and Pennsylvania's second largest economic center, Downtown Pittsburgh.” “We are pleased that the Civic Arena site project has received a TIGER grant for preliminary design of the ‘cap’ over Interstate 579, between Centre Avenue and Bigelow Boulevard,” Travis Williams, the Pittsburgh Penguins’ Chief Operating Officer, said. “We believe that the ‘cap’ is critical to reconnecting the Hill District with Downtown and attracting developers to our site. We appreciate the investment that the federal government has made in this project and look forward to working to continuing to work with them as the development progresses.” Federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (‘‘TIGER”) Grants, which are competitively awarded, can be used on transportation projects like highways, bridges, public transportation, passenger and freight railroads, and marine ports. TIGER Grants range in size from $1 million up to $200 million. They may be used for up to 80 percent of the costs of an eligible project. ###
08.29.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) expressed satisfaction at the news that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded a grant of more than $9 million to Healthy Start Pittsburgh for its efforts to eliminate disparities in the region’s infant mortality rates. “I applaud Healthy Start Pittsburgh for their excellent record of combating infant mortality and health disparities, and I am excited that they will have these additional resources to continue their outstanding work, ” Congressman Doyle said after learning of the grant announcement. “I believe the fact that Healthy Start Pittsburgh received one of the largest grants awarded demonstrates HHS’s recognition of both the severity of the problem in this region and the strength of Pittsburgh’s proposal for addressing it.” The Department of Health and Human Services awarded roughly $400 million in Healthy Start Initiative Grants to several dozen organizations nationwide to support their efforts to eliminate disparities in perinatal health. Healthy Start Pittsburgh was one of the applicants chosen from nearly 150 organizations that applied for these grants. Healthy Start Pittsburgh will receive this funding over the next five years – $1,421,155 this year, and $2 million every subsequent year for the next four years. This grant will help Healthy Start Pittsburgh expand system capacity to eliminate health disparities, especially in African-Americans, enhance the perinatal delivery system, develop service capacity to address gaps and barriers to service, promote community involvement, heighten community awareness about the need for early prenatal care, and foster linkages among healthcare providers. Healthy Start works to lower infant mortality rates, reduce low weight births, and eliminate health disparities. As one of the first 15 Healthy Start projects nationwide, Healthy Start Pittsburgh has been a pioneer and a model for tackling this critical issue. “The disparity in infant mortality rates in Allegheny County is unacceptable, and much more needs to be done to bring minority infant mortality rates down,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I have supported this effort throughout my service in Congress, and I contacted HHS in support of Healthy Start Pittsburgh’s application for this grant.” The disparity in infant mortality rates has been reduced in Allegheny County since the Healthy Start program began in 1991, but the infant mortality rate for African-Americans in Allegheny County is still nearly 4 times higher than that for whites (18.3 deaths per 1,000 live births for African-Americans versus 5.0 for Caucasians between 2007 and 2009). ###
08.21.2014	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) expressed his satisfaction at the Federal Communications Commission’s announcement this week that it would begin collecting data on “Special Access” broadband services, which constitute a $20 billion a year market. “This is welcome news for consumers and the economy, as well those like myself who believe in the need for a more competitive market for telecommunications services,” Congressman Doyle said in response to the FCC’s announcement. “Collection and analysis of this data will allow the FCC to determine whether special access markets are competitively priced. If it turns out that telecom giants are taking advantage of deregulated markets and gouging consumers, many of which are small businesses, the FCC should take action to stop them.” Special Access services are data lines leased by smaller carriers, wireless companies, universities, and businesses from incumbent telecommunications providers like ATT, Verizon, and Centurylink. They are used to operate private academic and business networks, provide backbone to cell sites, and to process credit card payments and ATM transactions. These lines are leased at regulated rates, under the 1996 Telecommunications Act, except in markets that have been deregulated by the FCC. Many of these markets were deregulated without any evidence that they were competitive. Concerns have been raised that incumbents are charging exorbitantly higher rates for Special Access in deregulated markets. Congressman Doyle has been urging the FCC to move forward on special access reform for several years. In 2011, for example, he asked then-Chairman Julius Genachowski to initiate a data collection effort to analyze what was happening in all special access markets and, if the FCC found that markets were being affected by incumbents utilizing monopoly power, to reexamine the regulatory structure of those markets. “It’s been a long hard road to get to this point,” Congressman Doyle observed, “but this is no time to let up the pressure. The FCC and Congress need reliable data about the impact current Special Access rules are having on consumers and the economy. I commend the Commission for taking this critical step, and look forward to continued work with the Commission to enhance competitive broadband policy and bring its benefits to all Americans." Click here to read the FCC Public Notice on its special access data collection effort. Click here for Chairman Wheeler’s statement on the FCC’s special access data collection effort. ###
08.19.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) and U.S. Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) announced that they have received a response from Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler to a letter they sent in June urging the FCC to allow communities to build out their own broadband infrastructure. "I welcome Chairman Wheeler's response and his continuing interest in municipal broadband, and I strongly encourage him and the FCC to take quick and decisive action to lift restrictions that limit or prevent communities from addressing their own broadband needs,” Congressman Doyle said after reviewing the letter from Chairman Wheeler. “I appreciate Chairman Wheeler’s continued commitment to ensuring that local communities have the opportunity to decide for themselves how best to promote competitive broadband service. What the broadband market needs today are more options and greater local choice, not barriers that prevent cities and towns from participating fully in the global economy. I encourage the Commission to use its authority to ensure municipalities have the power to make decisions about their broadband infrastructure,” said Senator Markey. The June 27 Doyle-Markey letter – which was also signed by Senators Al Franken, Amy Klobuchar, Richard Blumenthal, and Corey A. Booker, along with Representatives Henry A. Waxman and Anna G. Eshoo – urged the FCC to use all of its authority to promote affordable, high quality broadband service in communities across the country: “We are pleased by your recent comments about community broadband, particularly your assertion that municipal governments should not be inhibited if they wish to pursue the creation of their own networks…. We urge you and your colleagues to utilize the full arsenal of tools Congress has enacted to promote competitive broadband service to ensure America’s communities obtain a 21st century infrastructure to succeed in today’s fiercely competitive global economy.” A number of municipalities across the country have undertaken efforts to address their residents’ unmet broadband needs through a number of means, including creation of their own broadband networks. In recent years, however, a number of state governments have enacted laws prohibiting municipalities from creating their own broadband infrastructure. As a result, many communities across the country still don’t have adequate access to fast, reliable, and affordable broadband networks. "High-speed, affordable broadband access is essential for economic growth today,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I am concerned that communities that don't have access to affordable high-speed broadband will be left behind. Their options to address such a fundamental challenge shouldn’t be restricted by technologically unsophisticated state governments." This issue is now on the Federal Communications Commission’s agenda. On July 24, 2014, EPB of Chattanooga, Tennessee, and the City of Wilson, North Carolina, petitioned the FCC to preempt state laws limiting the expansion of their current broadband deployments. The Commission will be considering this request in the coming weeks and months. Commissioner Wheeler closed his letter with the assurance that the views expressed by Senator Markey, Representative Doyle, and their colleagues in the June 27 letter would be considered as part of the Commission’s petition review. Click here for a copy of the June 27, 2014, Doyle-Markey letter to FCC Chairman Wheeler. Click here for a copy of FCC Chairman Wheeler’s response to the June 27, 2014, Doyle-Markey letter. ###
07.15.2014	Washington, DC -- July 15, 2014 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) urged the International Trade Commission (ITC) to take action against steel imports from South Korea that violate international trade agreements and hurt American manufacturers. “The U.S. steel industry remains under siege by foreign companies that flood the U.S. market with unfairly traded steel products,” Congressman Doyle said at the ITC hearing this morning. “Allowing the subject countries to continue with their unfair trading practices has real life implications.” “The demand for OCTG is skyrocketing – and the United States should be reaping the same benefits as our competitors,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Not only have we lost the opportunity to create new jobs, we have actually had layoffs at plants that produce the steel used in energy development. U.S. Steel issued a WARN notice for the closures of two mills, one located in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, in the heart of my district. This means the loss of hundreds of jobs locally, and could ultimately affect more than half of a million jobs nationwide if we allow the American Steel Industry to fail. Pittsburgh was built on steel, but unfairly traded imports keep threatening to tear it down. That is unacceptable.” I have spent a lot of time over the last 20 years urging our government to stand up for American manufacturing and impose internationally approved remedies like countervailing duties,” Congressman Doyle said in his testimony. “Utilizing these tools is how we protect U.S. industry and strengthen our economy. The U.S. Steel industry is still the best in the world, and it will survive as long as others are forced to play by the rules. It cannot, however, compete effectively against foreign producers who persistently engage in unfair trade practices. Therefore I urge you to fulfill your obligation to uphold U.S. trade laws and give the American steel industry the tools to succeed.” “Oil Country Tubular Goods” – pipes, tubes, and other equipment used to transport oil and gas – are being “dumped” – sold below their cost of production – in the United States by foreign companies. Those products are subsidized by their countries’ governments, in violation of international trade agreements. Foreign imports of oil country tubular goods have more than doubled in recent years; they now make up half of the pipes purchased for oil and gas production in the United States. This unfair foreign competition has put severe financial pressure on domestic tubular goods makers. In June, US Steel announced that it was ending production at its McKeesport Tubular Operations facility, putting nearly 200 local employees out of work. Congressman Doyle sent a letter last summer to the ITC urging the federal government to take action to counter foreign dumping of tubular goods. The Commerce Department imposed duties on some OCTG imports in February, but Congressman Doyle believes that US government actions to date have not leveled the playing field. He testified at the ITC hearing today in support of additional action, including the imposition of countervailing duties on the South Korean OCTG imports. ###
06.24.2014	Washington, DC – This evening, the U.S. House of Representatives passed bipartisan legislation introduced by US Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Chris Smith (NJ-4) that would reauthorize and improve federal programs for families touched by Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASDs). HR 4631, the Autism Collaboration, Accountability, Research, Education and Support Act of 2014 (the “Autism CARES Act”), would authorize $260 million annually over five years for research into autism. It would also urge federal agencies to examine and anticipate needs for autistic children who are “aging out” of current programs and need different assistance as adults. “We have made tremendous advances in understanding Autism Spectrum Disorders – but this progress will be lost if Congress allows these programs expire,” Congressman Doyle said earlier this evening on the House Floor. “That is why it’s so important that Congress pass common-sense, bipartisan, bicameral legislation like the bill before us today. With the prevalence of Autism Spectrum Disorders much higher than we thought just a few years ago, inaction is simply not an option.” “Previous autism law including the Combating Autism Act of 2011 made critical investments—continued by this bill—that are working to determine the causes of autism spectrum disorder (ASD), identify autistic children as early as possible to begin treatment, raise critical awareness and develop new therapies and effective services,” said Smith who, along with the bill’s Democrat cosponsor Rep. Mike Doyle, founded and co-chairs the bipartisan Coalition on Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.). “Mike Doyle has been a great partner on this bill and on all autism spectrum disorder issues in Congress.” The CDC’s most recent data shows a continued increase in autism prevalence rates: 1 in every 68 American children (1 in 42 boys and 1 in 189 girls). In New Jersey, 1 in every 45 children has ASD, the highest rate in the CDC study. The Autism CARES Act would: reauthorize autism research for five years, including $22 million for the Developmental Disabilities Surveillance and Research Program at the CDC; $48 million for Autism Education, Early Detection, and Intervention, and; $190 million for hundreds of Research Grants at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee (IACC), annually; add key reforms to IACC to ensure coordination is maximized and the taxpayers’ dollars are spent efficiently; and increase accountability by requiring HHS to designate an individual charged with implementing IACC’s annual strategic plan and report to Congress how they are doing so. The Autism CARES Act would also direct the Department of Health and Human Services to report back to Congress on the best practices for transitioning adolescents with ASDs to adulthood. Along with another report by the GAO and the usual progress reports required by the Combating Autism Act and the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act, this new information would facilitate the government’s efforts to help individuals with ASD make the transition from a school-based support system to adulthood by studying their demographics and needs and encouraging independent living, equal opportunity, full participation, and economic self-sufficiency. “We need to do a better job of preparing children with ASD for adulthood and provide the help and services they need to reach their full potential,” said Smith. “The Autism CARES Act tasks multiple federal agencies to study and report back to Congress on the special needs of autistic young adults and transitioning youth. In light of the severity of the aging out crisis, we must do more and fast and ensure we are providing a comprehensive and thorough review of available services—and those we need to create.” The Autism CARES Act was cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 80 Representatives, and it is supported by Autism Speaks, the Autism Society, the Association of University Centers on Disabilities, and the American Academy of Pediatrics. Companion legislation (S 2449) has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Michael Enzi (R-WY). ###
06.02.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) reacted angrily today to the announcement that the United States Steel Corporation will stop production at its McKeesport Tubular Operations facility. “This is devastating news for our community, especially the workers who are being laid off,” Congressman Doyle said after the announcement. “My heart goes out to those workers and their families, and I promise them that I will do everything in my power to get the McKeesport facility back up and running.” “This is just the latest example of foreign trade practices hurting American manufacturers and destroying American jobs,” he added. “I’ve been working closely with US Steel and the USW to fight illegal steel imports like this throughout my service in Congress. We’ve been urging US trade agencies to act against illegal dumping of foreign-made tubular products for a year now, and I’ve been frustrated by what I consider to be a completely inadequate response.” Two weeks ago, Congressman Doyle was one of a number of speakers at a rally at the US Steel research center in Munhall that called on the Department of Commerce and the US International Trade Commission to move more aggressively to counter imports of “Oil Country Tubular Goods” that are “dumped” in the United States – sold below their cost of production by foreign companies. Those products are subsidized by their countries’ governments, in violation of international trade agreements. Foreign imports of oil country tubular goods have more than doubled in recent years; they now make up half of the pipes purchased for oil and gas production in the United States. This unfair foreign competition has put severe financial pressure on domestic tubular goods makers. Congressman Doyle sent a letter last summer to the ITC urging the federal government to take action to counter foreign dumping of tubular goods. The Commerce Department imposed duties on some OCTG imports in February, but as today’s announcement by US Steel suggests, US actions to date have not leveled the playing field. “As long as foreign producers are allowed to illegally dump their products in the US market, hardworking American families and American businesses will pay the price,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Rest assured we’ll continue to pressure the Commerce Department and the Administration to take forceful action against illegal imports of pipes, tubes, and other steel products.” “Congressman Mike Doyle is no new-comer in the battle for fair trade and a level playing field for American workers,” USW International President Leo Gerard observed. “He is a seasoned veteran that has been there for USW members and their families time and time again. With this latest tragic announcement of yet another blow to US manufacturing workers and their families, the USW will, as always, work side-by-side with Mike.” ###
05.29.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Tim Murphy (PA-18) released the following statement after receiving telephone calls from members of the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System leadership team on the status of wait times for doctor appointments at the Pittsburgh VA. A later call revealed the existence of a primary care waiting list containing the names of nearly 700 veterans, some of whom had been awaiting for appointments since 2012. The list, known as the “New Enrollee Appointment Request” or NEAR list, tracks veterans who requested health care appointments when they applied for enrollment in the VA health care system. “Forcing some Pittsburgh-area veterans to wait for more than a year to get VA health care is completely unacceptable. We expect VAPHS leadership to schedule medical appointments within the next 48 hours to eliminate the backlog and provide us with a detailed follow-up report that identifies with specificity the outcomes for each individual veteran. “Care delayed is care denied, and no veteran should be forced to await treatment because of mismanagement, or worse. If any effort was undertaken to conceal the true details of how long veterans have to wait for care, then those responsible should be referred to appropriate legal authorities for further review. “VAPHS leadership also told us that VA Headquarters in Washington had sent a team to Pittsburgh in the last several weeks to audit the facility – and that the team had found no evidence that there were two sets of books in Pittsburgh, one with the real wait times and one that made the wait times look a lot better. Given the well-founded lack of trust veterans have in VA right now, we urge an independent evaluation of wait times in Pittsburgh and await the results of an ongoing review by the VA’s Office of Inspector General. “We have also learned that higher-ups within the Department of Veterans Affairs may have instructed officials at the Pittsburgh VA not to inform members of Congress about the existence of a wait list. “It’s our expectation that any attempt to uncover the truth will be fully supported by VISN4 and the VA headquarters. Anything less than full co-operation is completely unacceptable and should be punished to the fullest extent. We want answers – and we want all veterans to have the best possible treatment they have earned through their service to our country.” ###
05.21.2014	Washington, DC – May 21 2014 – U.S. Representatives Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that the water resources legislation Congress is about to enact includes a new financing option for water and wastewater infrastructure in the final version of the bill.“The Water Resources bill that Congress is expected to approve today includes a new potential source of financial assistance for communities in Allegheny County that need to upgrade their sewer systems,” Congressman Doyle said in announcing the news. “It’s called the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act – ‘WIFIA’ for short. We’ve been working for years to secure federal assistance for the effort to bring our outdated local sewer systems into compliance with modern water quality laws – including low-interest loans or loan guarantees. While there’s no guarantee that ALCOSAN and communities in Allegheny County will get assistance through WIFIA, authorizing this program is an important first step. I’m pleased that we had a role in working for WIFIA’s inclusion in the final version of the bill. Now we’ll start working on securing funding for WIFIA and helping Allegheny County governments apply for that assistance.” “In Southwestern Pennsylvania, we have a tremendous amount of public works projects awaiting action – from rebuilding aging sewer infrastructure in Allegheny County to extending municipal water systems in rural Greene County,” Congressman Murphy noted. “Now under the WIFIA program that Congressman Doyle and I advanced, both urban and rural areas will have to the financial tools necessary to build out water and sewer projects without burdening federal taxpayers with new risks.” The House is expected to take final action on H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) later today, and the Senate is expected to do so soon. The Conference Report on the Water Resources Development Act includes the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act, or WIFIA, authorizes pilot projects with innovative new ways of financing water infrastructure projects. WIFIA could help local communities in Allegheny County reduce water pollution in our region. In 1997, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency notified dozens of communities in Allegheny County that they would have to eliminate combined sewer overflows and existing sanitary sewer overflows in their wastewater disposal and treatment systems. After a prolonged series of negotiations, ALCOSAN and 83 local communities signed a consent agreement with the EPA and the US Department of Justice specifying that they would eliminate all of the sanitary sewer overflows and reduce pollution from the combined sewer overflows substantially by 2026. A year ago, ALCOSAN released a plan for reducing annual combined sewer overflow discharges by 79 percent – at a cost of $2 billion. To fund even this plan, ratepayers in the ALCOSAN system would have to pay sewer fees that would grow by more than 10 percent each year for the foreseeable future. Such increases would be simply unaffordable for the low-income residents of many communities in the ALCOSAN service area. Congressmen Doyle and Murphy have been working with local leaders for a number of years to develop a better, more cost-effective plan for reducing pollution discharges from the sewer system. One approach they have supported was the creation of a program like WIFIA that could reduce the cost of these changes to local ratepayers by providing a new way to finance the needed improvements in ALCOSAN’s wastewater collection and treatment system. In March, Congressmen Doyle and Murphy, along with 16 of their colleagues, sent a letter to the House Chairmen and Ranking Members serving on the Conference Committee on H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), urging them to include language in the Conference Report that would establish federal low-interest loans or loan guarantees for water and wastewater infrastructure projects. The final version of the Water Resource Development Act that was approved by the Conference Committee would authorize a Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program to provide low-interest rate federal loans or loan guarantees to local governments to help them address their water and wastewater infrastructure needs. ###
05.16.2014	Washington, DC – May 16, 2014 – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s vote yesterday to launch a new Open Internet rulemaking to comply with the recent ruling of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Verizon v. FCC. “It is essential that the FCC work hard to put in place strong Net Neutrality rules. I’ve long been a supporter of the Title 2 approach and still believe that it remains the best path forward to ensure that these rules are strong and can stand up to legal challenges. “The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking that the FCC voted on today includes questions about reclassifying broadband as a Title 2 service. The inclusion of these questions as part of the rulemaking was the direct result of the immense public pressure put on the FCC from the public and public interest groups. “I encourage people to remain engaged on this issue, and continue to push the FCC to adopt Net Neutrality rules to preserve the Internet as an open platform for innovation, competition, and economic growth. “I will continue working with the FCC as this process moves forward to ensure that these rules protect and promote the Open Internet. Click here for information about today’s vote to move forward with a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. You can email your comments about net neutrality to the FCC at openinternet@fcc.gov. ###
05.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – May 13, 2014 – Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ-04) and Rep. Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) recently unveiled bipartisan legislation to renew the nation’s programs for the early detection, surveillance, research, education, awareness and treatment of Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD) for another 5 years. “I’ve been working with Chris Smith and various stakeholder groups to develop a reauthorization bill for federal autism programs,” said Congressman Doyle, who with Congressman Smith founded and co-chairs the bipartisan Coalition on Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.). “The latest autism numbers are simply astounding, and it is imperative that Congress continues to address Autism Spectrum Disorders. Without reauthorization, funding for all federal autism programs will cease on September 30th, 2014. Congress simply must pass this common-sense legislation before then.” “We need to work overtime to build on the successes the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act of 2011 is producing for individuals with autism and their families,” said Congressman Smith. “This is a critical investment that is working to determine the cause of ASD, identify autistic children as early as possible to begin treatment, and producing better awareness, new therapies and effective services. The quality of life of many children is at stake, as it is with young adults who age out of the support services in educational systems.” "Autism Speaks commends Representatives Smith and Doyle for their bipartisan leadership in spearheading this more aggressive federal response to autism," said Autism Speaks President Liz Feld. "The prevalence of autism has soared 123 percent since the first Combating Autism Act was passed and the federal response has struggled to keep pace. Autism is the fastest growing neuro-developmental disorder in the country. The CAA provides a framework to meet the needs of the autism community." "We commend Congressman Smith and Congressman Doyle on their leadership and commitment to maximizing the quality of life for all diagnosed with autism through their introduction of this bill to reauthorize the Combatting Autism Act," said Scott Badesch, President and CEO of the Autism Society of America. “They are true heroes within the autism community.” Currently, approximately 1.5 million individuals in the United States have Autism Spectrum Disorders. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) most recent data shows a continued increase in autism prevalence rates: 1 in every 68 American children (1 in 42 boys and 1 in 189 girls). The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. Most federal autism programs were first authorized by the Combating Autism Act (CAA) of 2006, which provided funding for research related to autism spectrum disorder, early identification of autism, and promoting early intervention. The Combating Autism Act has made a huge difference in the lives of thousands of autistic Americans and their families. Congressmen Smith and Doyle introduced the legislation that reauthorized the CAA programs (The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act, or CARA – now Public Law 112-32) for 2012, 2013 and 2014. CARA included $22 million for the Developmental Disabilities Surveillance and Research Program; $48 million for Autism Education, Early Detection, and Intervention; and $161 million for hundreds of Research Grants at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and for the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee. The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act of 2014, H.R. 4631, would reauthorize the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act programs at NIH, CDC, and HRSA for an additional five years, through September 30, 2019. The bill has 35 bipartisan co-sponsors. H.R. 4631 adds key reforms to the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee (IACC) and safeguards to the funding allotted in the bill to ensure coordination is maximized and the taxpayers’ dollars are spent efficiently. It further increase accountability but requiring HHS to designate an individual charged with implementing IACC’s annual strategic plan and report to Congress how they are doing so. The bill would also require the Government Accountability Office to review the existing landscape of services (federal, state, local government and the private and non-profit sectors), conduct a survey of stakeholders, and make recommendations to enhance coordination, efficiency, and the value of the services currently provided to assist individuals with ASD. Representatives Doyle and Smith are the founders and co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE). CARE has consistently worked to increase federal support for autism initiatives, including autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health and the Health Resources and Services Administration. ###
04.25.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Mike Doyle (D-Pennsylvania) reacted strongly to the Federal Communication Commission’s proposed rules regarding net neutrality: “I have long been an ardent proponent of the strongest net neutrality rules. I believe it is the responsibility of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to adopt strong regulations to protect the open internet. “I have serious concerns about the FCC’s proposal and the effects it might have on access, content, innovation, and consumers' pocketbooks. An open internet is essential to fostering innovation, protecting small businesses, and protecting the consumer’s ability to access and evaluate unadulterated content. “I strongly urge the FCC to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Internet remains an open and accessible platform for all.” ###
03.28.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Peter Welch (VT-AL) today released a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study which examined the Federal Communications Commission’s efforts to efficiently manage radio frequency spectrum through the use of “buildout” requirements intended to prevent spectrum from laying fallow. “With so much demand for radio spectrum today, it’s essential that the federal government manages its use wisely to ensure that the public gets the greatest possible benefit from this limited resource,” Congressman Doyle said in releasing the report. “This GAO report about the views of stakeholders and outside experts indicates to me that the FCC’s current buildout requirements are meeting several of the intended goals, and it contains a number of suggestions for improving spectrum management that I think should be explored. This report will be helpful to the Energy and Commerce Committee going forward in ensuring the public gets the most of this valuable resource.” “The efficient use of spectrum is more important now than ever before with the dramatic and impressive increase in wireless device adoption over the past decade,” Congressman Welch observed. “This GAO report is a good tool for Congress to use going forward as we continue to explore the best ways for spectrum to be utilized. I look forward to working with Congressman Doyle and all of the members of the Energy and Commerce Committee to ensure we adopt public policy to meet the 21st Century demands for data.” Radio frequency spectrum is a limited natural resource. With the rapid growth of mobile wireless communications devices, there has been tremendous demand for spectrum and the FCC has been responsible for managing the allocation of this valuable public asset and ensuring that it’s put to good use. In order to ensure that the spectrum licensed to private entities benefits the public, the FCC has established “build-out requirements” that require the licensees to set up the necessary infrastructure and meet certain benchmarks for use of the spectrum within a specified period of time. The FCC’s goals may include coverage of a geographic area and level of service provided, for example. If a licensee fails to meet those requirements, it can be penalized – sometimes with the loss of its license to use that spectrum. In order to evaluate the FCC’s build-out requirements and the Commission’s spectrum management, the GAO interviewed stakeholders and policy experts in several different fields of wireless service. It concluded that: • “Stakeholders GAO interviewed generally said that buildout requirements are effective in meeting two of four goals commonly cited in FCC documents and statute – encouraging licensees to provide services in a timely manner and preventing the warehousing of spectrum. • “Stakeholders had mixed reviews on the effectiveness of buildout requirements in meeting two other goals – promoting innovative services and promoting services to rural areas – largely because they believed that other tools could better address these goals. • “Nearly all the licensees and industry associations GAO interviewed said they support FCC having buildout requirements, while spectrum policy experts GAO interviewed were mixed in their support of the requirements. Experts that did not support buildout requirements said that the requirements are set too weak or that other tools could better meet FCC goals….” Click here to read the entire GAO report. Representatives Doyle and Welch serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee and its Subcommittee on Communications and Technology. ###
03.11.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that they have urged House leaders working on water resources legislation to include a new financing option for water and wastewater infrastructure in the final version of the bill. Congressmen Doyle and Murphy, along with 16 of their colleagues, sent a letter to the House Chairmen and Ranking Members serving on the Conference Committee on H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), urging them to include language in the Conference Report that would establish federal low-interest loans or loan guarantees for water and wastewater infrastructure projects. The letter, which was sent to Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) and Ranking Member Nick Rahall (D-WV), as well as Chairman Bob Gibbs (R-OH) and Ranking Member Tim Bishop (D-NY) of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment, said in part: “Cities, towns, and small unincorporated communities throughout the nation are struggling to repair or rebuild aging water and waste water systems with few resources of their own. “The federal government certainly cannot fully assume this financial burden, but it can help communities secure the financing that will allow them to undertake and pay for infrastructure improvements necessary to protect the public health and help grow the economy… We believe this type of approach makes sense and we respectfully request that a robust WIFIA pilot program be made part of the final WRDA conference agreement.” The version of the Water Resource Development Act approved by the Senate would authorize a Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program to provide low-interest rate federal loans or loan guarantees to local governments to help them address their water and wastewater infrastructure needs. The letter stated that: “The approach leverages relatively small amounts of federal funding to give local agencies access to more affordable financing for infrastructure projects…$100 million in federal funds could support between $990 million to $3.3 billion in low-interest loan….” Representatives Murphy and Doyle said WIFIA could help local communities in Allegheny County reduce water pollution in our region. In 1997, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency notified dozens of communities in Allegheny County that they would have to eliminate combined sewer overflows and existing sanitary sewer overflows in their wastewater disposal and treatment systems. After a prolonged series of negotiations, ALCOSAN and 83 local communities signed a consent agreement with the EPA and the US Department of Justice specifying that they would eliminate all of the sanitary sewer overflows and reduce pollution from the combined sewer overflows substantially by 2026. A year ago, ALCOSAN released a plan for reducing annual combined sewer overflow discharges by 79 percent – at a cost of $2 billion. To fund even this plan, ratepayers in the ALCOSAN system would have to pay sewer fees that would grow by more than 10 percent each year for the foreseeable future. Such increases would be simply unaffordable for the residents of many communities in the ALCOSAN service area. Congressmen Doyle and Murphy have been working with local leaders for a number of years to develop a better, more cost-effective plan for reducing pollution discharges from the sewer system. They believe that the creation of a program like the one in WIFIA could reduce the cost of these changes to local ratepayers by providing a new way to finance the needed improvements in ALCOSAN’s wastewater collection and treatment system. In addition to Representatives Doyle and Murphy, the letter was signed by Representatives Joseph J. Heck (NV-3), Michael M. Honda (CA-17), Charlie Dent (PA-15), Brian Higgins (NY-26), Larson (CT-1), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Adam Smith (WA-9), Tammy Duckworth (IL-8), Ken Calvert (CA-42), Ed Perlmutter (CO-7), Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1), Doris Matsui (CA-6), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), and Derek Kilmer (WA-6). The full text of the letter follows below. March 7, 2014 The Honorable Bill Shuster The Honorable Nick J. Rahall, II Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Transportation Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and Infrastructure U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 The Honorable Bob Gibbs The Honorable Timothy Bishop Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Water Resources Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment and Environment U.S. House of Representatives U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen Shuster and Gibbs and Ranking Members Rahall and Bishop: We write to express our strong support for your efforts to enact the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) this year, and to ask that the Conference Report include a pilot program similar to the Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) program in S. 601, the Senate’s Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). We support the concept of a WIFIA program that would provide low-interest rate federal loans or loan guarantees to supplement existing federal and state programs to help local agencies address water supply and wastewater infrastructure needs. We urge you to work with your Senate colleagues on the Conference Committee to include a mutually acceptable and cost-effective WIFIA program in the final agreement on WRRDA 2014. As you know, the WIFIA concept is based on the successful Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA). The approach leverages relatively small amounts of federal funding to give local agencies access to more affordable financing for infrastructure projects that meet needs of communities large and small while generating jobs. Because only a small federal appropriation is needed to cover the risk of default, the WIFIA approach is highly cost-effective without being a burden on the federal taxpayers. According to the Congressional Budget Office, $100 million in federal funds could support between $990 million to $3.3 billion in low-interest loans that would translate directly into economic activity. Cities, towns and small unincorporated communities throughout the nation are struggling to repair or rebuild aging water and waste water systems with few resources of their own. The federal government certainly cannot fully assume this financial burden, but it can help communities secure the financing that will allow them to undertake and pay for infrastructure improvements necessary to protect the public health and help grow the economy. We believe this type of approach makes sense and we respectfully request that a robust WIFIA pilot program be made part of the final WRRDA conference agreement. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Tim Murphy Member of Congress Member of Congress Denny Heck Michael M. Honda Member of Congress Member of Congress Charles W. Dent Brian Higgins Member of Congress Member of Congress John B. Larson Matt A. Cartwright Member of Congress Member of Congress Adam Smith Derek Kilmer Member of Congress Member of Congress Tammy Duckworth Ken Calvert Member of Congress Member of Congress Ed Perlmutter Suzanne Bonamici Member of Congress Member of Congress Doris O. Matsui Jaime Herrera Beutler Member of Congress Member of Congress Eleanor Holmes Norton Jan Schakowsky Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
02.24.2014	Washington, DC – February 24, 2014 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to the news that Congressman John Dingell (D-MI-12) would retire at the end of this year. “John Dingell has diligently served the people of Michigan’s 12th district and our nation for nearly 60 years. While John is recognized as the Dean of the House and the longest-serving Member of Congress in our nation’s history, it’s not his longevity that has made him so special – it’s the impact that his legislative accomplishments have had on our society. Through his service in Congress, he has crafted a legislative legacy that I believe to be unparalleled in its scope and its importance. “John developed his reputation as a legislative giant with years of hard work, persistence, and shrewd coalition-building. He served for many years as Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, where he drafted landmark legislation and conducted painstaking oversight of the federal agencies within the Committee’s jurisdiction. John has had a tremendous impact on issues as varied as civil rights, the environment, consumer protection, and universal health care. Few Members of Congress have done as much to improve Americans’ lives as John Dingell. “John’s record of public service will be hard to match. As a youth, John served as a Congressional page. After serving our country in the Army in World War II, John served as a county assistant prosecutor before succeeding his father in Congress in 1955. Since then, he has served 29 remarkably productive terms in the U.S. House of Representatives. “I am proud to call John Dingell a good friend and respected colleague. It has been an honor working with him on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. He has been a great mentor, a gifted leader, a skilled policy-maker, and a dedicated public servant. I wish John, his wife Debbie, and the entire Dingell family all of the best.” ###
02.19.2014	Washington, DC - February 19, 2014 – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s announcement this morning that it is proceeding with efforts to revise its Open Internet Order to comply with the recent ruling of the US Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in Verizon v. FCC. “I commend Chairman Wheeler for acting quickly to address the Circuit Court’s ruling on the FCC’s Open Internet rules. I’m pleased that the FCC is moving to ensure that all Americans continue to have access to the Open Internet. “The FCC’s Open Internet rules have been essential in fostering the massive growth of the Internet economy. I believe the public has an interest in ensuring that small innovators can continue to launch new online applications and services without the transmission of their data being unfairly blocked or limited by Internet service providers. Online businesses will always compete for audiences, but Open Internet rules can make sure that they do so on a level playing field. “I recently joined several of my House colleagues in introducing a bill to keep the FCC’s existing Open Internet rules in effect while the Commission works on new rules that comply with the Court’s ruling. This bill, the Open Internet Preservation Act, is currently pending before the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, and I encourage Chairman Walden to take it up as soon as possible.” Click here for more information on HR. 3982, the Open Internet Preservation Act. Click here for information about how to submit comments for FCC consideration in the course of this rulemaking. ###
02.11.2014	Washington, DC - U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement after the House approved legislation (S. 25) that would restore cuts in military retirees’ cost of living adjustments (COLAs) and offset the cost by cutting Medicare. “I think it’s shameful that House Republicans would pit veterans against senior citizens. While I support restoring the COLAs for our military retirees, cutting seniors Medicare benefits to pay for it is unacceptable.”
02.07.2014	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Tim Murphy (PA-18), and Keith Rothfus (PA-12) expressed their satisfaction that the Department of Justice has indicated its willingness to renegotiate the consent agreement it signed with ALCOSAN and local municipalities to reduce the volume of pollution discharged each year from the region’s multi-community sewer system. “This is great news for the people and communities affected by the consent agreement,” Congressman Doyle said today. “We’ve been working for some time now to persuade these agencies to renegotiate the consent agreement to incorporate green solutions - and protect low-income ratepayers - and this is the kind of response we’ve been looking for.” “This announcement from the Justice Department is a welcome acknowledgement of what the congressional delegation, local officials and I have been advocating for on behalf of ALCOSAN member communities,” Congressman Murphy said. “We can develop a plan that meets the goals of the Clean Water Act consent decree without burdening local ratepayers with triple-digit rate increases.” “This welcome news represents an opportunity for all parties to craft a better solution that will protect citizens from unsustainable rate increases and improve environmental standards,” Congressman Rothfus said. “I am committed to working with Alcosan, my colleagues in Congress, and local leaders to achieve this result.” This is the latest development in a longstanding effort to reduce water pollution in our region. In 1997, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency notified dozens of communities in Allegheny County that they would have to eliminate combined sewer overflows (CSOs) and existing sanitary sewer overflows (SSOs) in their wastewater disposal and treatment systems. After a prolonged series of negotiations, ALCOSAN and 83 local communities signed a consent agreement with the EPA and the US Department of Justice specifying that they would eliminate all of the sanitary sewer overflows and reduce pollution from the combined sewer overflows substantially by 2026. A year ago, ALCOSAN submitted a plan to EPA and the Justice Department for reducing the annual combined sewer overflow discharge by 79 percent. While this plan didn’t meet the requirements of the consent agreement, it nevertheless would cost $2 billion to carry out. To fund even this plan, ratepayers in the ALCOSAN system would have to pay sewer fees that would grow by more than 10 percent each year for the foreseeable future. Such increases would be simply unaffordable for the low-income residents of many communities in the ALCOSAN service area. At that time, ALCOSAN also asked for additional time to revise its plan to incorporate “green” design elements that could achieve the same or better results at a lower cost. Representatives Doyle, Murphy, and Rothfus have been working with local leaders to persuade EPA and the Justice Department to renegotiate the consent agreement and allow the affected communities more time to develop a better, more cost-effective plan for reducing pollution discharges from the sewer system. ALCOSAN received a letter this week from the U.S. Justice Department agreeing to ALCOSAN’s request for renegotiating the consent agreement and allowing the authority more time to revise its plan for reducing pollution discharges from its sewer system. ###
01.07.2014	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) expressed his support for extending federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) benefits for Americans who have been out of work a long time, and he hailed the Senate vote on the issue today as an important first step towards achieving that goal. The authorization for federal EUC benefits expired on December 28th, ending much-needed federal assistance for 1.3 million Americans (including 73,000 Pennsylvanians, more than 8,000 of whom live in Allegheny and Westmoreland Counties). Nearly 2 million other Americans will be hurt by the expiration of the EUC program over the next six months. “The economy is a lot better than it was several years ago, but unemployment is still too high,” Congressman Doyle said today. “With unemployment at 7 percent, many Americans are still having difficulty finding new jobs – and it’s taking many of them longer than usual through no fault of their own. That’s why I think it’s necessary to extend the federal emergency unemployment benefits at this time. It’s wrong to shut the program down now and deny millions of Americans the help they desperately need.” Earlier today, the U.S. Senate voted to begin consideration of a bipartisan three-month extension of unemployment insurance (S. 1845) by a vote of 60 to 37. “I’m pleased that the Senate has taken up legislation to extend federal emergency unemployment insurance,” Congressman Doyle added. “I will be working to pass similar legislation in the House. Extending emergency unemployment insurance for the uninsured isn’t just the compassionate thing to do; it’s also the smart thing to do, because those benefits get pumped right back into the economy and increase economic demand. The expiration of EUC benefits over the last week alone has hurt the economy by $400 million.” The state and federal governments share responsibility for financing unemployment insurance, and the states each administer their own programs. The basic Unemployment Compensation (UC) program provides up to 26 weeks of benefits to eligible individuals who have lost their jobs. On average, nationwide, the program provides about $300 a week to recipients. States provide most of the funding for this program, which is permanent and operates in good times and in bad. The UC program is unaffected by the recent expiration of the EUC program. Unfortunately, over the last 5 years, unemployment has been much higher than usual. During recessions like the one we recently experienced, the federal government has often authorized temporary emergency unemployment programs to provide benefits for up to 47 additional weeks (providing a total of up to 73 weeks of unemployment benefits when added to the permanent UC benefits). The federal government provides 100 percent of the funding for the emergency unemployment insurance program. Congress authorized emergency unemployment benefits in 1958, 1961, 1971, 1974, 1982, 1991, 2002, and most recently in 2008. The 2008 EUC insurance program, which was authorized in 2008 and signed into law by President George W. Bush, has been extended several times over the last 5 years and is the program for which the authorization expired last month. The economy has turned around and made real progress since its near-collapse in 2008, but there are still 1 million fewer jobs than there were before the recession – and more than 4 million Americans have been out of work for six months or longer. The federal emergency unemployment insurance program has been pumping more than $2 billion a month into the nation’s economy, including roughly $100 million in Pennsylvania. Consequently, failure to extend federal unemployment insurance will hurt job growth throughout the nation, costing the economy 240,000 jobs this year, according to the White House Council of Economic Advisers. ###
12.12.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle released the following statement after the House of Representatives approved a federal budget for Fiscal Year 2014 by a vote of 332 to 94.“I voted in favor of this compromise budget because I believe it is a small but important step in the right direction. As someone who never supported the sequester, I was pleased that this budget provides a significant reduction in sequestration levels for 2014 and 2015. “Much work remains to be done. I believe the nation would be best served by eliminating the sequester completely, for example, and I strongly believe that Congress should enact an extension of federal emergency unemployment insurance program as soon as possible in order to help the millions of Americans who are still unemployed. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to replace the sequester, get this economy moving, and create more family-supporting jobs.” ###
12.06.2013	Pittsburgh, PA -- U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in response to the death of former South African President Nelson Mandela. "I am deeply saddened by the passing of Nelson Mandela. Mandela was a man of great character and courage. He was an impassioned advocate for equal rights for all and democratic government. He fought for what he believed in, refusing to be intimidated by violence, oppression, or even 27 years of imprisonment. When he was freed from prison and elected President of South Africa, he worked hard for national reconciliation, refusing to allow his country to follow the more common and all-too-easy path of recrimination and revenge. Finally, at the end of his first term in office he stepped down, despite his immense popularity – setting an important precedent for a peaceful democratic transfer of power in South Africa, and setting a powerful example on a continent where far too many dictators have used violence and division to hold on to power for decades. "Nelson Mandela made the world a better place to live in. His actions reached far beyond the borders of South Africa, and the world should be forever grateful to him for his legacy. "As President Mandela once said, 'When a man has done what he considers to be his duty to his people and his country, he can rest in peace.'"
12.06.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14), Anna G. Eshoo, and Doris O. Matsui sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Wheeler, urging the agency to suspend and investigate a filing made by AT&T to eliminate certain plan terms for special access services. “We urged Chairman Wheeler and the Commission to suspend and investigate AT&T’s recent filing on special access,” Congressman Doyle said today. “The changes proposed by AT&T would result in rate increases by as much as 24 percent in some regions and increase costs to users by hundreds of millions of dollars.” “AT&T’s filings show the continued need for special access reform, and the importance of robust competition among telecommunications providers,” he added. “I look forward to working with Chairman Wheeler and the Commission on special access reform and a pro-competitive agenda that continues our global leadership in world class networks and technology.” All three Representatives are members of the House Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and Representative Eshoo is the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member. Special Access services are data lines that leased by smaller carriers, wireless companies, and businesses from incumbent telecommunications providers like AT&T, Verizon, and Centurylink. These lines are leased at regulated rates, except in markets that have been deregulated by the FCC. Concerns have been raised that incumbents were charging exorbitantly more for Special Access in deregulated markets. Congressman Doyle has been urging the FCC to move forward on special access reform for several years. In 2011, he asked then-Chairman Julius Genachowski to initiate a data collection effort to analyze what was happening in all special access markets and, if the FCC found that markets were being affected by incumbents utilizing monopoly power, to reregulate those markets. The complete text of the letter follows below. December 5, 2013 Tom Wheeler Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, SW Washington DC, 20554 Dear Chairman Wheeler: Congratulations on your recent swearing-in as Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. In the short time since you’ve taken the helm of the FCC, you’ve emphasized the importance of competition policy and the power of competitive markets to drive economic growth. As you recently stated, “We must protect competition where it exists. We must promote competition where it may not be fulsome.” One of the greatest challenges to that objective is the broken special access market. As you know, special access services are critical for providing competitive choices for wireline and wireless services. Ensuring reasonable rates, terms, and conditions for this vital input is key to many of the Commission’s highest policy priorities, including the President’s goal of delivering affordable broadband to schools and libraries, promoting competition in the wireless and broadband markets, managing the transition to IP networks, and ensuring the availability of broadband connections for emergency responders. We’re pleased that the Commission is engaged in a comprehensive effort to gather data and analyze the special access market. However, we are concerned about AT&T’s recent notice of its intention to eliminate service plans for terms longer than three years and the effect this action, if approved, would have on prices and competition in the marketplace. By eliminating these plans, AT&T is effectively increasing rates in some regions by as much as 24 percent – which would result in increased costs to users by hundreds of millions of dollars. Rather than allowing this effort to short circuit the data collection process now underway, we urge you to suspend and investigate AT&T’s filing. We look forward to working with you on special access reform and a pro-competitive agenda that continues our global leadership in world class networks and technology. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Anna G. Eshoo Doris O. Matsui Member of Congress Member of Congress Member of Congress
11.15.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted today against legislation that would roll back many of the patient protection provisions signed into law in 2010 as part of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Congressman Doyle worked hard to enact this law to protect consumers from widely used insurance industry abuses. “We came up with a private system that allowed everybody to participate—young and old, rich and poor, healthy and sick,” Congressman Doyle said today on the House Floor. “When you put everybody in that risk pool, healthy people help us enable the insurance industry to keep rates at an affordable way for those people who have pre-existing conditions and who have chronic diseases. That’s how the system works. What my colleague, Mr. Upton is proposing today unravels that system.” Today the House considered H.R. 3350, the “Keep Your Health Plan Act” – legislation that would allow insurance companies to continue to sell insurance policies that provided minimal benefits, capped annual or lifetime benefits, and discriminated against people for a number of reasons, including pre-existing conditions and even gender. Congressman Doyle voted against H.R. 3350, and he voted in favor of a motion to recommit that would have allowed insurance companies to renew “grandfathered” health insurance policies (existing policies that don’t necessarily meet ACA standards) for an additional year for current policy-holders – but wouldn’t allow them to sell such policies to new customers. The motion to recommit was defeated on a vote of 187 to 230, and H.R. 3350 was approved on a vote of 261 to 157. Click here to see Congressman Doyle’s Floor speech explaining why the consumer protection provisions in the Affordable Care Act were enacted in the first place. ###
10.18.2013	White House tours will again be available starting November 5th. You can submit your request for White House tour tickets on this web site (click here to request a White House tour). For November tours, the White House will be considering requests submitted online at least one week in advance of the tour dates. For tours in December and beyond, requests must be submitted at least 3 weeks in advance, but no earlier than 6 months in advance. Please note that tours are not guaranteed and that they are distributed on a first-come, first-served basis. Additionally, the White House will be opening its gardens and grounds to visitors on Oct 26-27 from 9am-3:30pm. The National Park Service will distribute free, timed tickets at the Ellipse Visitor Pavilion (located at 15th and E Streets) on each day of Fall Garden Tours beginning at 7:30 AM. Tickets will be distributed -- one ticket per person -- on a first-come, first-served basis.
10.17.2013	Doyle votes to re-open government Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined large majorities in the U.S. House and Senate last night in voting for legislation to end the 16-day government shutdown, reopen the federal government, and raise the federal debt ceiling. This morning he released the following statement:“For over a month, I’ve been working to enact a clean bill that would fund the federal government and enable it to pay its bills. Last night I finally got that chance, and I was happy to join most of my colleagues in supporting it and prevent an economic catastrophe, get furloughed federal employees back to work, and ensure that seniors, veterans, and others get their federal services and benefits on time.” “This shameful period is finally over. The shutdown cost our economy $24 billion. The economic crises that the Tea Party has manufactured repeatedly over the last two and a half years have cost the country billions more and a million jobs. The fiscal austerity the Tea Party and other conservatives have imposed on the country has cost us another million jobs. Americans can’t afford any more of these misguided policies. “If there’s any silver lining to all this counterproductive drama, it will be that these Tea Party tactics won’t be in play when we revisit the budget and debt limit in a few months. I don’t have any problem with the Tea Party fighting for their priorities; I have a problem with the tactics they’ve used. You shouldn’t threaten to devastate the economy because you can’t get what you want through the ballot box. We’ll see if they’ve gotten the message.” ###
10.02.2013	At 12:01 AM on October 1st, much of the federal government shut down. The shutdown took place because Congress hasn’t enacted legislation to fund much of the federal government for Fiscal Year 2014, which began on October 1st. My offices will remain open during the shutdown to assist constituents with questions surrounding the shutdown and other concerns, speak with federal agency workers who are not furloughed about remaining services for our district, and work with other Members of Congress to end this crisis. In recent years, Congress has on multiple occasions enacted a “continuing resolution” that authorizes current funding levels for some period of time. These resolutions are usually non-controversial measures that allow the government to continue to function normally while Congress works to find common ground on future funding levels for government programs. Until Congress enacts a continuing resolution or a bill funding the federal government for all of FY 2014, every “non-essential” function of the federal government will shut down. Republicans in the House of Representatives have refused to enact a continuing resolution unless President Obama and Democrats agree to defund, delay, or otherwise undermine the Affordable Care Act, a law that has already benefited millions of Americans and which will provide affordable healthcare for millions of Americans in the years to come. In 2010, the Affordable Care Act was enacted by the House of Representatives and the Senate, and signed into law by President Barack Obama. In 2012, the Supreme Court held, by a vote of five to four with Chief Justice John Roberts (who was appointed by President George W. Bush) in the majority, that the law was constitutional. The health care law has been implemented within the requirement of both our Constitution and the Administrative Procedures Act, which controls the actions of federal agencies. It is, in short, the law of the land, which has passed constitutional scrutiny by the Supreme Court. This historic legislation is already providing millions Americans security in their health coverage by prohibiting the denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions, allowing individuals to stay on their parent's health plan by through the age of 26, prohibiting the denial of coverage due to pre-existing conditions, and ensuring access to free preventive healthcare. More importantly, the new health insurance Marketplaces that opened on October 1st will provide unprecedented access for Americans to high-quality, affordable health plans catered to their individual needs. Most Americans who currently have health insurance won’t see many changes other than free preventive health care benefits and the elimination of a number of abusive private insurance industry practices. Roughly half will continue to get insurance coverage from their employers, and about a third are currently covered by government programs like Medicare and Medicaid. Only about 15 percent of the public will end up getting their insurance through the new Health Insurance Marketplaces – primarily people who don’t have any insurance. But all Americans will benefit from the ACA’s consumer protections. THIS is what Republicans want to shut the government down over. It’s clear to me that this government shutdown is a last-ditch effort by Congressional Republicans to dismantle one of the most important new programs in recent history – and that they’re willing to shut down the government and possibly default on the national debt in order to do so. They’ve played this card several times before, and they’ll continue to do it until it stops paying off. I will not allow them to hold the government, federal workers, and the American people hostage every year to advance their anti-worker, anti-Middle Class, anti-senior, anti-government agenda. I remain committed to finding a resolution to this unnecessary crisis as soon as possible, so that we can continue to focus on the recovery of our economy and on the real priorities of our nation: good jobs with benefits, strong economic growth, and the implementation of the Affordable Care Act. Even many Republicans agree that using a government shutdown to force extreme legislative priorities is a mistake. Governor Chris Christie described the threat of a shutdown as “irresponsible.” Senator Tom Coburn of Oklahoma said “shutting down the government doesn’t work". In terms of the specifics of a government shutdown, it is important to remember that the term “non-essential” covers every function of the federal government except those protecting life and property, relating to national security, and those necessary to pay benefits or contracts with funding still available. The list below briefly outlines services that will be affected due to a government shutdown: Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security: Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and other mandatory programs will not be affected. Federal Workers: About 800,000 federal employees will be involuntarily furloughed, with their paychecks jeopardized or delayed. US Military: The military's 1.4 million active-duty personnel will stay on duty. As the result of legislation passed on September 30, all active-duty military personnel will continue to be paid. About half of the Defense Department's civilian employees will be furloughed. National Parks and Museums: All national parks and federal wildlife refuges would be closed for the duration of the shutdown. About 9 million visitors were turned away from parks, museums and monuments run by the National Park Service during the last government shutdowns in the mid-1990s. Science: NASA will furlough almost all of its employees, but it will continue to keep workers at Mission Control in Houston and elsewhere to support the International Space Station. The National Weather Service will keep forecasting weather and issuing warnings, and the National Hurricane Center will continue to track storms. Travel/Visas: Federal air traffic controllers will remain on the job and airport will continue to operate security checkpoints; delays are possible. Federal inspectors will continue enforcing safety rules. The State Department will continue processing foreign applications for visas and US applications for passports, since fees are collected to finance those services. Delays, however, are expected due to a shutdown. Embassies and consulates overseas will continue to provide services to American citizens. Courts: Federal courts will continue to operate normally for about 10 business days after the start of a shutdown. If the shutdown continues after that point, the judiciary would have to begin furloughs of employees whose work is not considered essential. Cases would continue to be heard, however, in such a case. The US Supreme Court is scheduled to begin its new term on October 7. In previous government shutdowns, it continued to operate as normal. Mail: Deliveries would continue as usual because the US Postal Service receives no tax dollars for day-to-day operations. It relies on income from stamps and other postal fees to keep running. Homeland Security: The majority of the Department of Homeland Security's employees are expected to stay on the job, including uniformed agents and officers at the country's borders and ports of entry, members of the Coast Guard, Transportation Security Administration officers, Secret Service personnel, and other law enforcement agents and officers. US Citizenship and Immigration Services employees will continue to process green card applications. Veterans Services: Most services offered through the Department of Veterans Affairs will continue. Veterans will still be able to visit hospitals for inpatient care and mental health counseling, for example, or to get prescriptions filled at VA health clinics. Operators will still staff the crisis hotline, and claims workers will still process payments to cover disability and pension benefits. Those veterans appealing the denial of disability benefits to the Board of Veterans Appeals will have to wait longer for a decision because the board would not issue any decisions during a shutdown. Please feel free to contact my office if I can help you with a problem caused by the government shutdown – or any other issue, for that matter. Mike Doyle Member of Congress
09.19.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement reacting to the Order issued yesterday by the Federal Communications Commission detailing the information it plans to collect on “special access” broadband services. “I commend the Commission and Chairwoman Clyburn for the release of this Order and moving forward on special access data collection. This Order will enable the FCC to collect comprehensive data on the dedicated service marketplace. “Dedicated telecommunications services and special access, in particular, is used by everyone from wireless companies, as backhaul for towers, to gas stations and grocery stores, for doing credit card transactions. These services underpin our modern economy and are essential tools used by small businesses in communities around the country. “The Commission has rightly recognized that the current rules governing pricing flexibility have not promoted competition in the special access marketplace. The first step toward resolving the issues that have plagued these rules is collecting the data necessary to understand the extent of the problem. “I look forward to the Commission taking prompt action on special access reform in the future, and ensuring that these rules remain an effective and available option in an increasingly consolidated telecommunications marketplace.” Special Access services are data lines that leased by smaller carriers, wireless companies, and businesses from incumbent telecommunications providers like ATT, Verizon, and Centurylink. These lines are leased at regulated rates, except in markets that have been deregulated by the FCC. Concerns have been raised that incumbents were charging exorbitantly more for Special Access in deregulated markets. Congressman Doyle has been urging the FCC to move forward on special access reform for several years. In 2011, he asked then-Chairman Julius Genachowski to initiate a data collection effort to analyze what was happening in all special access markets and, if the FCC found that markets were being affected by incumbents utilizing monopoly power, to reregulate those markets. Click here to read the FCC Report and Order. Click here to read Acting FCC Chairwoman Clyburn’s statement on the order. ###
09.09.2013	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) assured the families of veterans who died from Legionnaires Disease acquired at the Pittsburgh VA that Congress would fully investigate the outbreak, hold the responsible people accountable, and work to ensure that similar problems don’t arise at VA hospitals in the future.“I want to say to each and every one of you that you have our deepest sympathy and condolences – and that you deserve answers, and we’re here today to try to get you some answers, and to make sure that there’s accountability, and to make sure that this doesn’t happen ever again,” Congressman Doyle assured the families of several of the veterans who died from Legionnaires’ Disease. Congressman Doyle was part of a Congressional panel that heard testimony from witnesses about mismanagement at VA health care facilities across the country – including actions at the Pittsburgh VA that resulted in up to 21 infections and 6 deaths from an outbreak of Legionnaires’ Disease. The hearing was held in Pittsburgh’s Allegheny County Courthouse this morning by the U.S. House of Representatives Veterans’ Affairs Committee.“The vast majority of men and women who serve our veterans in VA hospitals are good people who care for our veterans, who love our veterans and try to provide them the best care possible,” Congressman Doyle added, “but something clearly went amiss in these cities, and we need to get to the bottom of it to make that sure it never happens again.” On November 16, 2012, the Pittsburgh VA announced that an outbreak of Legionnaires Disease had taken place at its University Drive facility in Pittsburgh, infecting four patients. The VA subsequently announced that a fifth patient had contracted the disease – and that one of the five had died. In response, Congressmen Doyle and Murphy contacted the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and requested that the Committee look into the outbreak to determine what happened and what should be done to prevent future outbreaks of Legionnaires’ Disease at VA facilities. The Committee has been looking into the issue since then. During the hearing, Congressman Doyle publicly thanked the Committee chairman, Representative Jeff Miller, (R-FL-1) for working with the Congressmen from Allegheny County to address this problem.“When Congressmen Murphy and Rothfus and I came to you when we first learned of this and asked for this Committee to provide its oversight function, you acted swiftly, and I want you to know that we appreciate the hearings that you held in Washington, DC and the fact that you’re here today to continue to make sure that we get answers for these family members and for other families so that they can feel secure that when they bring their loved ones to VA hospitals anywhere in this country that they’re going to receive the best of care.” “What we’re hearing today breaks our heart and makes our blood boil,” Congressman Doyle said later in today’s hearing. “We will get to the bottom of this.” Click here to view the hearing. Congressman Doyle’s opening statement starts at the 52 minute-mark. ###
07.18.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) released a report providing details about the ways in which the Affordable Care Act is helping the residents of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. "Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, 300,000 of the 700,000 people in the 14th Congressional District are now eligible for free preventative care, and some of the worst practices of the health insurance industry have been banned," Congressman Doyle observed in releasing the report, which was prepared by the Democratic staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "The Affordable Care Act is protecting more than 200,000 people in the 14th District from lifetime limits on their private health insurance benefits, and something like 30,000 children in the District can no longer be denied insurance coverage due to pre-existing conditions,” Congressman Doyle added. “What’s more, as of January 1, those 200,000 people will be protected from annual limits on their private health insurance coverage, and private health insurance companies won’t be allowed to discriminate against anyone with a pre-existing condition. These reforms will make a huge difference to families in the 14th District, who will have greater peace of mind and more financial security.” The report also highlights the benefits of the Affordable Care Act to seniors, who now get free preventive care from Medicare and pay less for prescription drugs if they fall into the Medicare Part D prescription drug “donut hole.” The Affordable Care Act has also made it possible for thousands of young adults in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District to stay on their parents' insurance plans up until they turn 26. “The Affordable Care Act has already helped hundreds of thousands of people in the 14th District, and as the remaining provisions of the new law are implemented, the Affordable Care Act will benefit many more,” Congressman Doyle stated. “Unfortunately, thousands of our friends and neighbors who are currently uninsured could have had access to affordable health care coverage if Governor Corbett and the state legislature had agreed to participate in the Medicaid expansion offered under the Affordable Care Act. I think it’s a disgrace that our state government has rejected this opportunity to provide much-needed help to the working poor in Pennsylvania.” Click here to read the report. Click here to learn more about the Affordable Care Act. Click here to see a timeline detailing when the different provisions of the Affordable Care Act take effect. ###
07.09.2013	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released the following statement in support of a lawsuit demanding marriage equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgendered (LGBT) couples in Pennsylvania. This lawsuit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania today on behalf of 23 Pennsylvanians who want to marry in Pennsylvania or want the commonwealth to recognize their out-of-state marriages. “I believe that all Americans, regardless of their sexual preference or gender identity, should have the right to marry the person they love and have their legal commitment to each other recognized throughout the United States. Consequently, I was pleased by the Supreme Court’s recent rejection of the Defense of Marriage Act and Proposition 8. With that court decision, the battle has shifted to each of the States that still refuses to recognize marriage equality. “Sadly, Pennsylvania is one of the states that has yet to repeal their laws prohibiting marriage equality. “I strongly believe that same-sex couples deserve the same economic and legal rights under Pennsylvania law as they have now under federal law and the laws of 13 other states. That’s why I want to express my support for the lawsuit filed in a federal court today on behalf of LGBT couples’ right to marriage equality in Pennsylvania. I want Pennsylvania to be a leader in LGBT rights, not a laggard.”
06.24.2013	Tens of millions of Americans don’t have affordable health insurance coverage today, but that’s about to change. The Affordable Care Act of 2009 required the establishment of health insurance marketplaces in each state to offer private health insurance plans to individuals and families who can’t get health insurance through either their employer or the federal government (Medicare, Medicaid, the Department of Defense, or the Department of Veterans Affairs, for example). The Affordable Care Act’s Health Insurance Marketplaces will open for business on October 1. At that point, individuals and families who don’t get health insurance through their employers will be able to shop for affordable, high-quality private health insurance plans through new “marketplaces” in each state. The coverage could take effect as soon as January 1, 2014. These marketplaces will make it easier to compare plan costs and coverage so that consumers can sign up for the private health insurance plan that best meets their unique needs. In anticipation of the open enrollment period that begins October 1st, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services released some helpful educational tools earlier today to help eligible Americans understand their choices and prepare to sign up for private health insurance. You can learn more about your health insurance options at the new HealthCare.gov website (CuidadoDeSalud.gov) or the 24-hours-a-day toll-free consumer call line at 1-800-318-2596. Hearing impaired callers using TTY/TDD technology can dial 1-855-889-4325 for assistance. ###
06.10.2013	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle released the following statement in recognition of the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Equal Pay Act. "50 years ago today, President John F. Kennedy signed the Equal Pay Act into law with the intention of ending wage discrimination against women. In 1963, women made only 59 cents on average for every dollar earned by men. "The Equal Pay Act was a tremendous step forward. The wage gap has been reduced substantially. "But we’ve got more to do. The wage gap still exists. Today, women nationwide make an average of 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. That’s why I’m a cosponsor of the Paycheck Fairness Act, which would strengthen the Equal Pay Act, including by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work and protecting employees from retaliation for sharing salary information with their co-workers. "Today, the 50th anniversary of the Equal Pay Act, is an important reminder that while our nation has made progress in ending wage discrimination against women, we’ve got more to do. I encourage all Americans to support the enactment of the Paycheck Fairness Act." ###
05.23.2013	Washington, DC –Today U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) and U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) introduced legislation that would help unemployed and underemployed adults acquire workplace skills that are currently in demand. The bill is modeled after the work being done by the Manchester Bidwell Training Center in Pittsburgh. “Manchester-Bidwell has successfully provided adults and at-risk youth with valuable skills to make them competitive in the workforce,” said Senator Casey. “The National Program for Arts and Technology Act would use these successes to help people across the country to attain the same results. I can think of no better program to replicate nationwide.” “For years the Manchester-Bidwell Training Center has been providing people with the skills they need to get decent jobs – jobs that make it possible to support a family,” Congressman Doyle observed. “In recent years, the Center has shown that its successful model for education and job training can be replicated in other communities. I think it only makes sense to build on what’s worked and establish a federal program to create similar centers in economically distressed communities across the country.” Senator Casey introduced the National Program for Arts and Technology Act in the Senate with Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Congressman Doyle introduced it in the House of Representatives. The National Program for Arts and Technology Act would provide education and training to unemployed adults and at-risk children so they are able to attain in-demand job skills. The bill would authorize the Secretary of Education to award competitive grants to community-based organizations with a plan for developing a center that: Provides education and training to underemployed and unemployed individuals Meets quarterly performance goals, which may include: students’ school attendance and behavior recruitment and enrollment metrics student outcomes and performance in training job placement Obtains non-federal matching dollars of at least 1:1 “One of the biggest barriers to reducing poverty and promoting economic growth in our country today is the mismatch between the skills businesses need and the skills many Americans possess,” Congressman Doyle said. “One of the best ways to eliminate this barrier is to teach at-risk youth and the unemployed these critical job skills. The Manchester Bidwell Training Center has a tremendous record of success in keeping at risk youth in school and in providing industry-specific job training programs for under- and un-employed adults. We believe that these results can be replicated in economically distressed low-income communities across the country by establishing Centers for Arts and Technology nation-wide that are based on the education and training model developed by the Manchester Bidwell Training Center, and that’s just what the National Program for Arts and Technology Act would do.” ###
05.23.2013	Washington DC - Today U.S. Representatives Tim Murphy (R-PA18) and Mike Doyle (D-PA14) introduced legislation that would require the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Health System (VAHS) to report infectious disease outbreaks to the appropriate public health officials. “The VA treats a lot of sick, older Americans – just the kind of population that’s vulnerable to infectious diseases,” said Representative Doyle. “It seems clear to me that the VA has to do a better job of keeping the public and agencies like the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention informed when they have an outbreak.” “Our goal is to minimize the risk and spread of infectious diseases to patients and staff at VA’s healthcare system so tragic events like the Legionnaires’ outbreak never occur again for lack of information,” said Representative Murphy. “You can't manage what you don't measure, which is why our bill establishes a strong framework for VA hospitals to collect and share life-saving information with the CDC and health departments.” Last fall, the VA healthcare system in Pittsburgh (VAPHS) announced that there had been an outbreak of Legionnaires’ disease at one of its facilities. Subsequently, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that a number of VAPHS patients had come down with Legionnaires’ disease and that five had died of it. Investigations by the VA Inspector General’s Office and the House Veterans Affairs Committee revealed that the Pittsburgh VA healthcare system had detected the presence of the bacteria that cause Legionnaires’ disease but failed to respond to the problem in a coordinated, comprehensive, and effective fashion for over a year – putting many people at risk. One of the lessons learned from this incident is that the reporting requirements for VA healthcare facilities should be clarified and strengthened to ensure that information about the presence of infectious diseases gets to the relevant authorities in a timely fashion. Congressmen Doyle and Murphy worked with Senator Robert P. Casey, Jr. (D-PA) to draft legislation that would require VA facilities to report infectious diseases more quickly. Specifically, the Veterans Administration Disease Reporting and Oversight Act, would: Require the Undersecretary for Health to put out a directive creating a process for communication between the Pathology Team, the Infection Prevention Team, the Facilities Management Team and any other key group within each VAHS for handling a suspected case. The Director of each Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN) would be required to ensure every member of these teams is briefed on these rules. Require the VISN Director to report a confirmed case of a notifiable infectious disease within 24 hours. If a state has a more stringent guideline for a particular disease, the VISN must follow that requirement The incident must be reported to the following agencies: The Centers for Disease Control; The State and/or County Health Department (in the state and county in which the affected hospital is located and where the individual is a resident); The Veterans Administration in Washington, DC; The patients primary care provider The impacted patient and next of kin; All employees at the affected VA Health System; Require the VISN to confirm within 24 hours that each agency has acknowledged that each of the above agencies is aware of the situation. Require the VISN to implement an action plan in a confirmed case of probable or definite hospital acquired case, within no more than seven days. When applicable, the plan will detail how the VAHS will manage and control the potential spread of the disease whether community or hospital acquired. The plan will also identify the role of partnering agencies in the process. Require the VISN to maintain a history of its reports for notifiable diseases for no less than ten years. Require the VA Office of the Inspector General (VAOIG) to submit annual reports to Congress on VA compliance with these requirements. Require the VAOIG to investigate any failure to comply with the reporting requirements and should it be found there was a failure to comply; the non-compliant employee(s) can be suspended per existing processes. The Secretary is also authorized to take other disciplinary action as they deemed appropriate. Senator Casey introduced the Veterans Administration Disease Reporting and Oversight Act in the Senate on May 7. Representatives Doyle and Murphy introduced it in the House today. ###
04.23.2013	Washington, D.C. – April 23, 2013 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in response to the release this afternoon of a US Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General’s report on the outbreak of Legionnaire’s Disease in the Pittsburgh Veterans Affairs Health System. “The VA Inspector General’s report concluded that the Pittsburgh VA fell short on several counts in protecting our veterans, and as a result, many veterans contracted Legionnaire’s Disease and a number of them died. “I am deeply disappointed and disturbed by this report, which describes the Pittsburgh VA’s numerous shortcomings in great detail. I expect VAPHS to ensure that all of the recommendations in the IG’s report are promptly and fully implemented and that a more effective process is put in place for monitoring and treating VAPHS water systems and treating VAPHS patients. The VA also needs to hold the individuals who didn’t do their duty accountable. That’s the only way to restore public confidence in the Pittsburgh VA. “I will monitor the Pittsburgh VA’s actions closely to ensure that it takes all the steps necessary to get the Legionella bacteria under control and keep its patients safe, and I will work with my colleagues in Pennsylvania’s Congressional delegation to draft any legislation needed to ensure that the VA takes all appropriate measures in its facilities across the country to prevent, report, and rapidly address any future outbreaks of communicable diseases in VA facilities across the country. “Our veterans deserve no less.” Thousands of Americans a year contract Legionnaires Disease, and a small number of people die from it – usually individuals who are already in ill health. Some of the most common sources of Legionnaires Disease are water systems in hotels or hospitals. Most such facilities have water treatment equipment to kill Legionella bacteria. On November 16, the Pittsburgh VA announced that an outbreak of Legionnaires Disease had taken place at its University Drive facility in Pittsburgh, infecting four patients. The VA subsequently announced that a fifth patient had contracted the disease – and subsequently, that one of the five had died. Congressman Doyle concluded that it was necessary to request an investigation by an independent objective entity to determine what happened and what should be done to ensure that it never happens again. Other Members of the Pennsylvania Congressional delegation agreed, and in the end requested investigations by both the VA Inspector General and the House Committee on Veterans Affairs. Today the IG released its report on this investigation and it concluded that the Pittsburgh VA failed on a number of different levels in preventing the spread of the Legionella bacteria, in detecting Legionella in the facility’s water supply, in addressing its presence when it did find it, and in testing its patients for the disease. The Pittsburgh VA also failed to notify state, local, and federal health agencies in a timely fashion of the dangerous situation caused by high levels of Legionella bacteria in its water. Click here to read the complete VA IG's report. ###
04.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – April 22, 2013 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) presented Stephanie Taylor from South Allegheny High School with the First Prize in the 2013 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Ms. Taylor’s artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is an acrylic painting entitled “My Artistic Discovery: Mona and Me.” Her work was selected out of a field of 58 entries from 12 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. This is the fourth year in a row that one of Stephanie’s works has placed in this competition. Last year she took fifth place for her oil painting “Shades of Green,” two years ago she was awarded second place, and in 2010 her painting was the winner. Miranda Morgan from Springdale High School was awarded second place for her pencil drawing “Breaking Free.” Reanna Buzza from Springdale High School received third place for her pencil drawing entitled “Koala in Tree.” Candice Kubican from Highlands High School was awarded fourth place for her marker composition “Frederick the Frog.” Ashley Guillary, also from Highlands High School, received the fifth place award for her silk painting “Pittsburgh.”“We received nearly 60 outstanding entries for this year’s competition, and the judges labored long and hard to rate these artworks. The creativity and effort that these students put into their work is clear, and their talent is obvious in the compositions they submitted. They all should be proud of their submissions,” Congressman Doyle said. The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the seventeenth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition.“I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event each year.” Due to the large number of outstanding works of art submitted for this competition, the judges awarded the following 12 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Emily Cotter from Springdale High School Cassandra Finnegan from Springdale High School Kattie Jones from Brentwood High School John Karp from Penn Hills High School Elif Kizilkaya from the Pittsburgh Creative and Performing Arts School Perri Murray from the Pittsburgh Creative and Performing Arts School Roomel Reese from Penn Hills High School Samantha Reiss from Sto-Rox Hills High School Elizabeth Schaap from Brentwood High School Stephanie Taylor of South Allegheny High School Sarah Welsh from Baldwin High School Dakotah Yaworski from High School ###
04.16.2013	Washington, D.C. – April 16, 2013 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in response to the bombing of the Boston Marathon yesterday. “My thoughts and prayers are extended to the people of Boston and the families of those killed and injured in this terrible tragedy. I am confident that the person or persons responsible will be found and brought to justice.” ###
04.08.2013	Congressmen Cite Potential for Job Loss, Local Economic Impact Pittsburgh, PA — As Congress examines the American Airlines-US Airways merger, which is currently under review at the Department of Justice, U.S. Reps. Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) today issued the following letter to US Airways Chairman and Chief Executive Officer W. Douglas Parker. The letter expresses “serious concerns about the recent merger announcement between US Airways and American Airlines, and the effect it will have on the region, both in terms of job loss and decreased frequency of flights.” The letter seeks information about the impact on the Pittsburgh region, as well an update from US Airways about the status of the considerable financial investments made by Pennsylvania taxpayers at the Pittsburgh International Airport and the nearby US Airways operations center and maintenance facility. Reps. Murphy and Doyle are holding a meeting this afternoon at the Airport with key state and local officials and airline employees to discuss the merger and its impact on the region. A copy of the letter can be viewed below. Mr. W. Douglas Parker Chairman and CEO US Airways Group, Inc. 111 W. Rio Salado Parkway Tempe, AZ 85281 Dear Mr. Parker, Southwestern Pennsylvania is the proud home to the Pittsburgh International Airport, the US Airways flight operations center, maintenance facility, and hundreds of US Airways employees. Our region has a history of a strong partnership with US Airways from construction of a new airport in 1992 to financial incentives that ensured the airline remained globally competitive while maintaining a strong presence in the Pittsburgh region. When US Airways decided to reverse Pittsburgh International Airport’s hub status in 2004, shifting planes to Philadelphia and Charlotte, more than 10,000 jobs were lost and departure flights were slashed considerably. It was a hard economic hit, yet Southwestern Pennsylvanians did not walk away from helping the airline remain competitive. County taxpayers agreed to a $13.5 million contribution to the airport’s debt obligation, helping to reduce gate fees for US Airways. Meanwhile, as part of its bankruptcy reorganization proceedings, US Airways cancelled leases with the Airport Authority worth $1.4 billion.[1] The revenue from these leases was the lynchpin of the agreement by taxpayers to finance the new midfield terminal. In fact, Allegheny County agreed in 1988 to build a new $567 million terminal according to US Airways’ specifications. County taxpayers contributed $42.5 million in incentives just to finalize the deal.[2] But with the cancelled leases, US Airways went from paying $50 million a year toward the facility’s annual $59 million debt service to $10 million a year. This action was a devastating blow to our partnership. Given these past events and the fractured nature of the relationship between US Airways and Southwestern Pennsylvania, we have serious concerns about the recent merger announcement between US Airways and American Airlines, and the effect it will have on the region, both in terms of job loss and decreased frequency of flights. As you know, the US Airways flight-operations center, which employs 700 workers, was largely constructed with taxpayer dollars. The region provided $17 million in low-interest loans, grants, and land value to build this state-of-the-art facility in 2008.[3] US Airways signed a 20-year lease with the county, with two 10-year options attached. Promises were made at the time about its long-term benefits.[4] Now, according to a US Airways filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, we see the facility characterized this way: “But I also don't want to delude people into thinking that […] we're going to keep it in Pittsburgh because if I was going to bet right now my guess is it would — the jobs would move to Dallas.” This does not bode well for the local employees or the region, and leads us to believe US Airways was not acting in good faith when local taxpayers made this investment. Moreover, in January 2011, US Airways signed a new lease through December 2015 for its heavy maintenance operations at the Airport. At the time, a US Airways spokesman said "[Pittsburgh] remains an important location for US Airways, with the opening of an all new state-of-the-art operations control center, which opened in 2008, and the presence of our heavy maintenance facility.” Today, it is our understanding this maintenance facility, which at one time employed 930 people, could be shuttered as early as 2014. As you can imagine, we have serious doubts about the benefits of this partnership to the Pittsburgh region, and frankly, our meetings with US Airways representatives have only confirmed those concerns. It is our goal to prevent further job loss in Southwestern Pennsylvania while maintaining flight frequency at the Pittsburgh International Airport. There are several questions that must be resolved. We request that you provide details of US Airways’ plan to pay back the millions in taxpayer subsidies used by US Airways to keep the airline competitive — from construction of the midfield terminal, leasing agreements, low-interest loans, grants, etc. — should the US Airways-American merger receive regulatory approval. Thank you for your timely attention to these concerns. As the American-US Airways merger develops, we ask you consider our partnership, what it has meant to local taxpayers, and your plan to resolve these outstanding obligations if the merger leads to further consolidations and closures. Sincerely, Tim Murphy Member of Congress Mike Doyle Member of Congress
03.13.2013	Washington, DC - The Air Force informed members of Pennsylvania’s Congressional delegation today that the 911th Airlift Wing at the Pittsburgh International Airport will be preserved for Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014 and that the eighth aircraft lost some years ago will be returned. Air Force officials told Senators Bob Casey and Pat Toomey and Representatives Tim Murphy, Mike Doyle and Keith Rothfus that the 911th will see no changes to its personnel structure. The 911th Airlift Wing performs important missions as part of Air Mobility Command. In particular, the wing’s C-130 aircraft deploy heavy equipment in support of overseas military missions.“This has been a real bipartisan team effort on the part of the western Pennsylvania Delegation,” Congressman Mike Doyle said. “Our persistence has paid off. Tim Murphy and I never let the Air Force forget the value of the 911th and its dedicated personnel, and I want to thank our Pennsylvania Senators for their hard work as well. This is a great day for the Air Force, Western Pennsylvania, and the proud men and women who serve our country.”“With every bump in the road—and there were many—Southwestern Pennsylvanians refused to give up,” said Congressman Tim Murphy. “In the end, the Air Force finally agreed that the 911th is one of the most efficient, skilled, and mission-ready airlift units in the country. In every phone call, meeting, site visit, and discussion with Pentagon officials, always on our minds were the families of the 1,400 active-duty airmen, reservists, technicians and civilians at the 911th who are serving our country, keeping our nation safe, and doing it in the most economical way. The superb service provided to the Air Force by our local military members is reflected in their exemplary performance record. I’m thrilled that with this announcement, those families can sleep soundly tonight, knowing their jobs are secure and our country remains safe because of their awe-inspiring service.”“The Air Force today briefed me on their decision to keep 8 C130s at the 911th with manpower fully restored for Fiscal Year 2013 and 2014. This was the right decision. I have been fighting to keep the 911th open because it is efficient and effective and a smart use of resources. I will continue to press Secretary Hagel to ensure the long-term sustainability of the installation. I would like to thank the entire military community in the Pittsburgh area for their continued support in being true champions for our reservists,” said Senator Casey.“This is terrific news. The 911th Airlift Wing will be preserved,” said Senator Toomey. “This important and cost effective unit will remain in Southwest Pennsylvania and remain at current strength. Senator Casey, our House colleagues and I have repeatedly championed the merits of the 911th Airlift Wing and the Air Force Secretary and Chief of Staff concur. It is gratifying that the Air Force leadership agreed with my contention all along that there was little evidence to support the premise that eliminating the 911th would be cost effective. This is a victory for Pittsburgh, Southwest Pennsylvania and our long-term military preparedness. Southwestern Pennsylvania has a rich history of military service, and the men and women of the 911th exemplify that tradition.”“This is welcome news for Western Pennsylvania, for Pittsburgh International Airport, and most importantly for the reservists, civilian employees, and their families,” said Congressman Keith Rothfus. “The 911th is a critical component of our national defense and local economy and it saves taxpayers millions of dollars each year. This decision makes sense in light of our nation’s fiscal crisis and threats abroad, and I will continue to fight for the promotion of the 911th and the hardworking men and women of Western Pennsylvania. There are many people who have devoted much time and energy to saving the 911th. I’d like to especially thank Chip Holsworth, president of the Military Affairs Coalition of Western Pennsylvania and the late Sally Haas, who was president of the Pittsburgh Airport Area Chamber of Commerce.” ###
03.01.2013	Washington, DC – March 1, 2013 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement today expressing his anger and frustration that the deadline for avoiding automatic budget cuts had arrived without Congress taking action to prevent them. “For the last 5 years, the American people have been struggling to hang on through the Great Recession and a slow, difficult economic recovery. Nobody ever said that the Federal Government could solve all our problems overnight, but I thought we all agreed that Congress shouldn’t make things worse. And yet, that is exactly what Congress has done under the influence of conservatives who believe that the solution to all our problems consists of deep, immediate cuts in government programs. “Today, sequestration kicks in. It won’t have a big impact immediately, but the damage will grow over time. Sequestration will destroy at least 750,000 jobs and slow the fragile economic recovery. “It didn’t have to be this way. I have supported efforts to replace sequestration’s thoughtless and counterproductive cuts with an alternative that protected programs serving mainstream America while eliminating wasteful corporate welfare and asking the wealthiest among us to bear their fair share. “Democrats have an alternative to sequestration that would be a lot better for the economy and American families. It would cut unnecessary agricultural subsidies, eliminate special tax breaks for big oil companies, and make the Buffet Rule part of our tax code. “But House Republicans won’t allow a vote on it. Democrats have tried to bring it to the House Floor several times, but the Republican majority has repeatedly prevented it. “The American People deserve a vote on an alternative to sequestration. But after remarkably little legislative work so far this year, the House Republican Leadership has sent us home on the very day that sequestration hits. “I strongly believe that Congress should have remained in session this weekend to work on preventing or reversing sequestration. At the very least, I think that Congress should stay in session in order to be able to address any unforeseen consequences of the sequester." ###
02.22.2013	Washington, DC – The White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) today announced a Directive guiding federal agencies to increase access to the results of federally funded research. The Directive requires agencies with annual research and development expenses of over $100 million to develop a plan within 6 months for better public access to the results of that research. U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement of support for that Directive: “I want to thank Director John Holdren and the OSTP staff for their hard work to push for better public access to taxpayer-funded research. This Directive mirrors the goals of my bill, the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act (H.R. 708 or FASTR), to lower the barriers to scientific collaboration and make it easier for researchers to access one another’s work. The Directive is going to be instrumental to advancing U.S. leadership in the sciences. “This Directive is a big step toward reducing the exorbitant fees our university libraries have to pay to give their students access to academic journals. At a time when many public universities and libraries nationwide must deal with severe budget cuts, this White House decision reflects a recognition that we must extend the reach of our taxpayer dollars to ensure that our students get a better education. “I am pleased that this Directive also encourages agencies to maximize the creative reuse of data contained in the articles made available as a result of better public access policy. My legislation, FASTR, also expresses support for enabling solutions such as computational analysis to allow researchers to make the most effective use of publicly available research. “I am delighted to see the White House’s action on this important issue today. Next, we have to make sure this Directive is enacted into law. I’ll be pushing forward this year to pass the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act.”Click here to read the Directive. ###
02.14.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA), Kevin Yoder (R-KS), and Zoe Lofgren (D-CA) today introduced legislation to increase the openness, transparency, and accessibility of publicly funded research results. The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act (FASTR) would require federal agencies with annual extramural research budgets of $100 million or more to provide the public with online access to research manuscripts stemming from funded research no later than six months after publication in a peer-reviewed journal. "This bill will give the American people greater access to the important scientific research results they’ve paid for,” Congressman Doyle said today.“Supporting greater collaboration among researchers in the sciences will accelerate scientific innovation and discovery, while giving the public a greater return on their scientific investment.” “The scientific research community benefits when they are able to share important research and cooperate across scientific fields. Likewise, taxpayers should not be required to pay twice for federally-funded research,” said Congressman Yoder. “This legislation is common sense, and promotes more transparency, accountability, and cooperation within the scientific research community." "Everyday American taxpayer dollars are supporting researchers and scientists hard at work, when this information is shared, it can be used as a building block for future discoveries," said Representative Lofgren. "Greater public access can accelerate breakthroughs, where robust collaborative research can lead to faster commercialization and immense benefits for the public and our economy." Specifically, the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act would: • Require federal departments and agencies with an annual extramural research budget of $100 million or more, whether funded totally or partially by a government department or agency, to submit an electronic copy of the final manuscript that has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. • Ensure that the manuscript is preserved in a stable digital repository maintained by that agency or in another suitable repository that permits free public access, interoperability, and long-term preservation. • Require that each taxpayer-funded manuscript be made available to the public online and without cost, no later than six months after the article has been published in a peer-reviewed journal. • Require agencies to examine whether introducing open licensing options for research papers they make publicly available as a result of the public access policy would promote productive reuse and computational analysis of those research papers. An identical Senate counterpart of this legislation is also being introduced today by Senators John Cornyn (R-TX) and Ron Wyden (D-OR). “FASTR represents a giant step forward in making sure that the crucial information contained in these articles can be freely accessed and fully used by all members of the public,” said Heather Joseph, Executive Director of the Scholarly Publishing Academic Research Coalition (SPARC). “It has the potential to truly revolutionize the scientific research process." This legislation would unlock unclassified research funded by agencies like the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce, the Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the Department of Energy, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the National Science Foundation. The bill builds on the success of the first U.S. mandate for public access to the published results of publicly funded research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2008, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) implemented their public access policy. It is estimated that approximately 80,000 papers are published each year from NIH funds. The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act echoes the interest in public access policies expressed by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, which has examined the mechanisms that would leverage federal investments in scientific research and increase access to information that promises to stimulate scientific and technological innovation and competitiveness. Click here to read the Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act. ###
02.08.2013	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented the Congressional Award Silver Medal to Stefania Young and Juliana Kochis at his Pittsburgh office in recognition of their outstanding acts of service, initiative, and achievement. “These young women have demonstrated growth in every positive quality that The Congressional Award is designed to promote. Their commitment to achieving their goals is admirable and should inspire all of us,” Congressman Doyle said. “I’m very proud to represent them in the U.S. House of Representatives.” The Congressional Award provides a unique opportunity for young people to set and achieve personally challenging goals that build character and foster community service, personal development, and citizenship. To earn The Congressional Award, participants set and achieve individual goals in four program areas: voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and exploration/expeditions. Stefania – a recent graduate of Robert Morris University – performed nearly 500 hours of community service by working with the West Side Catholic Center, a shelter for homeless women and children. She also joined the Student Government Association to expand her knowledge of parliamentary procedure and more specifically, Robert’s Rule of Order. After knee surgery, Stefania spent 2-3 hours per day strengthening her knee by bicycling, walking on the treadmill, and working out regularly. She also led a 10-day expedition through Idaho, Washington, Utah, and Montana as she was determined to learn about the travels of Lewis and Clark firsthand. Her advisor in this undertaking was Sally Ann Cortese. Juliana – a junior at Montour High School – spent over 300 hours volunteering with The Sewickley Public Library, Girl Scouts, and Soles for Souls, an organization that distributes shoes to the less fortunate around the world. She also developed her professional skills by working part-time at Nighthawk Alarm Services. Juliana totaled over 230 hours running cross-country, and her travels to Bermuda enabled her to explore the historical connections between the U.S. and Bermuda. Her advisor was Janet Adams. A young person is not selected to receive the award; he or she earns it. The Congressional Award goals are set based on individual interest, need, and ability. The only other medal awarded by the United States Congress is the Medal of Honor. ###
02.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) participated in a House Veterans’ Affairs Committee hearing on the recent outbreak of Legionnaires’ Disease at the VA’s Pittsburgh facilities. “The hearing this morning was a good start, but frankly it raised more questions than it answered,” Congressman Doyle said. “Witnesses made serious allegations and discussed concerns that the VA needs to address promptly.” “This was a lethal outbreak of a preventable and treatable disease, and that’s simply not acceptable,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Our veterans and VA staff deserve better than that. It’s very troubling that the VA has been accused of gross negligence, and if that’s the case, the responsible parties need to be held accountable. If they’re not true, VA needs to provide a comprehensive response disproving these allegations.” “This issue is far from over,” Congressman Doyle added. “We’re going to stay on top of this until all the facts are clear and the problems have been fixed – and this is only the beginning of this process. I am confident that the Veterans Affairs Committee will follow up and demand answers from the VA. The VA Inspector General is looking into the outbreak as well, and his report is due out in March. “This incident has national implications as well. I hope that, at the very least, this tragic incident leads to policy changes that prevent future outbreaks of Legionnaires’ Disease. It seems clear to me that the protocols for addressing the risk posed by the Legionella bacterium need to be revised.” Legionnaires Disease is caused by inhaling water vapor or mist containing Legionella bacteria – often in showers or hot tubs. Thousands of Americans a year contract Legionnaires Disease, and a small number of people die from it – usually individuals who are already in ill health. Some of the most common sources of Legionnaires Disease are water systems in hotels or hospitals. Most such facilities have water treatment equipment to kill Legionella bacteria. On November 16, 2012, the Pittsburgh VA announced that an outbreak of Legionnaires Disease had taken place at its University Drive facility in Pittsburgh, infecting four patients. The VA subsequently announced that a fifth patient had contracted the disease – and that one of the five had died. Congressmen Doyle and Murphy concluded that an investigation by an independent objective entity was needed to determine what happened and what should be done to prevent outbreaks of Legionnaires’ Disease at VA facilities. They contacted the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and requested that the Committee look into the outbreak. Congressman Murphy and Senator Casey requested the Inspector General at the Department of Veterans Affairs investigate the outbreak as well. Today’s hearing included witnesses from the VA, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), private sector contractors involved in testing and maintaining the VA’s water systems, and outside experts on Legionnaires’ Disease. A list of the witnesses and their testimony, as well as Members’ opening statements, and a video of the hearing, can be found on the House Veterans Affairs Committee’s web site. ###
01.22.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Tim Murphy (PA-18) along with U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) expressed support for the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee’s decision that it will hold a hearing on the recent outbreak of Legionnaires’ Disease at the VA’s Pittsburgh facilities. This week, the Committee recently that it will hold a hearing on the issue on Feb 5, 2013, at 10 a.m. in Washington, DC. The hearing will be held in Room 334 of the Cannon House Office Building in Washington, DC.“Last December, we asked the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee to look into the outbreak of Legionnaires’ Disease at the Pittsburgh VA, and I’m pleased that the Committee has responded so positively to our request,” Congressman Doyle said today. “The VA Committee’s leadership followed up on our request and determined that a hearing on the outbreak was called for. I’m grateful to Chairman Miller and Ranking Member Michaud for addressing our concerns just one day after the Committee’s first meeting of the 113th Congress.” “We want to know that veterans can go into a hospital and trust that everything’s in place to keep them healthy and not make them worse,” Congressman Murphy said."I'm pleased that the House is set to hold a hearing on the Legionnaires' outbreak at the Pittsburgh VA,” Senator Casey said. “I urged the VA's Inspector General to conduct an investigation into the situation because it's critical that those responsible are held accountable. I'm hopeful that this hearing will shed more light on what occurred and what can be done to prevent an outbreak of legionnaires' from occurring ever again." Legionnaires Disease is caused by inhaling water vapor or mist containing Legionella bacteria – often in showers or hot tubs. Thousands of Americans a year contract Legionnaires Disease, and a small number of people die from it – usually individuals who are already in ill health. Some of the most common sources of Legionnaires Disease are water systems in hotels or hospitals. Most such facilities have water treatment equipment to kill Legionella bacteria. On November 16, 2012, the Pittsburgh VA announced that an outbreak of Legionnaires Disease had taken place at its University Drive facility in Pittsburgh, infecting four patients. The VA subsequently announced that a fifth patient had contracted the disease – and that one of the five had died. Congressmen Doyle and Murphy concluded that an investigation by an independent objective entity was needed to determine what happened and what should be done to prevent outbreaks of Legionnaires’ Disease at VA facilities. They contacted the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs and requested that the Committee look into the outbreak. Senator Casey was also concerned about the incident, and he asked the VA Inspector General to investigate the outbreak in Pittsburgh and review the risk to veterans within the VA Health System.“As a result of our actions, the House Veterans Affairs Committee and the VA’s Inspector General are looking into this outbreak,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I’s my hope that these investigations will enable the VA to correct any deficiencies and protect the health of veterans and staff going forward.” “We owe our veterans the best possible medical care,” Congressman Doyle added. “We need to make sure that a better system is in place to prevent future outbreaks of Legionnaires’ Disease at VA facilities across the country.” ###
01.01.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted this evening to pass compromise legislation that will prevent massive tax increases and spending cuts (the “fiscal cliff”) from taking place.“I supported this legislation to prevent tax increases on the middle class and harm to our economy,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “This bill will prevent income taxes from going up on households with incomes of less than $450,000 a year and individuals with incomes of less than $400,000. In addition, it will extend emergency unemployment benefits for another year. Finally, it provides a permanent fix to the Alternative Minimum Tax – and a year-long “doc” fix. I was glad that at the last minute, Congress came together to prevent a devastating blow to our economy and to tens of millions of middle- and working-class Americans.” “That being said, this legislation fell far short of my hopes and expectations,” Congressman Doyle cautioned. “We still have a long way to go to get our economy back on track and get the federal budget under control. We still need a balanced, more comprehensive agreement combining spending cuts and more revenue with entitlement reforms that will avoid harming our most vulnerable citizens. I also believe that any savings or increased revenue produced by changes in Social Security should be used only for strengthening the Social Security Trust Fund – and not for deficit reduction.” The House of Representatives passed HR 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, by a vote of 257 to 167 this evening. The Senate approved HR 8 early this morning by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 89 to 8. The legislation will now be sent to President Obama, who has said he will sign it into law. The legislation approved today extends most of the tax cuts that were scheduled to expire, and it delays the spending cuts by two months. ###
12.20.2012	The tragic elementary school shootings in Newtown, Connecticut, have brought gun safety issues to the forefront of our public debate recently. Our region is no stranger to such horrendous incidents. In fact, over the last 13 years, we’ve had 5 mass shootings in southwestern Pennsylvania – two in 2000, two in 2009, and one in 2012. 16 people died as a result, and 17 people were wounded. At least 4 of the 5 shooters were mentally ill, and at least 3 shooters had multiple weapons. The shooters are all either dead or on Death Row, but many of our friends and neighbors still bear the scars, physical and/or mental, of those attacks. According to the US Centers for Disease Control, more than 16,000 Americans are murdered each year – and more than 11,000 of them are killed with firearms. The murder rate in the United States is three times as high as that of our next-door neighbor Canada (4.8 murders per 100,000 people versus 1.6 in 2011) – and four to five times as high as the other industrialized first-world nations (1.1 murders per 100,000 people in France and the UK, 0.8 per 100,000 people in Germany and Spain, and 0.4 per 100,000 people in Japan). Our region isn’t immune to this terrible trend; in fact, we’re above the national average. Between 2008 and 2012, there were nearly 500 murders in Allegheny County – nearly 100 a year. With a population of 1¼ million people, that gives us a murder rate of roughly 8 murders per 100,000 people – and 7 out of 8 murders in Allegheny County are carried out with firearms. Such a high number of deaths and injuries isn’t inevitable. I firmly believe that there are policies the federal government can adopt to reduce the number of homicides committed in our country each year, and I am working actively in Congress to have them enacted into law. For example, I am a cosponsor of the following gun safety bills: The Gun Show Loophole Closing Act of 2011, HR591 Currently, the Brady Law requires criminal background checks of people purchasing guns from federally licensed gun dealers, but unlicensed sellers are not required to do background checks. This loophole causes particular problems at gun shows, which give unlicensed sellers a guaranteed venue. In most states convicted felons, domestic violence abusers, and those who are dangerously mentally ill can walk into any gun show and buy weapons from unlicensed sellers, who operate week-to-week with no established place of business, without being stopped, no questions asked. This bill would require a successful background check for any purchaser of a firearm at a gun show.The Fire Sale Loophole Closing Act, HR 263 The so-called fire-sale loophole currently allows gun dealers whose licenses have been revoked by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) to convert their entire business inventories of firearms into personal collections and then liquidate the firearms in unregulated fire sales. By converting the business inventory firearms into personal collections, a formerly-licensed dealer can sell the guns without conducting otherwise required, instant FBI background checks that determine whether the purchaser is in a category of individuals prohibited from owning a gun. The Fire Sale Loophole Closing Act would require that any such firearms be transferred only to a licensed gun dealer or a federal, state, or local law enforcement agency. The Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act, HR 308 This bill would prohibit the transfer, importation, or possession of high capacity magazines (that can hold dozens of rounds of ammunition) that are manufactured after the bill is enacted. Many of these devices are currently in private hands, and this bill would not ban their possession. Instead, the bill would prohibit the transfer of those devices currently in existence. This would allow individuals who currently own the devices to legally retain possession but works to prevent the spread of the devices by making it illegal to transfer them to other individuals. The Fix Gun Checks Act of 2011 This bill would encourage greater reporting to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) for individuals with mental illness, domestic violence records, and histories of drug abuse, by increasing the penalties for states that fail to adequately turn over records for those who are prohibited from owning a gun. The legislation would also require that all gun sales, including those by private sellers, be subject to a background check, effectively ending the gun show loophole. The bill would also increase penalties for states that do not comply with the NICS’s current requirements. States that do not make available the data needed to assess those who are or may be prohibited from possessing firearms could face reductions in the amount of federal crime-fighting funds they receive. Another major provision of both bills focuses on the mental health issues of those seeking to possess firearms. In addition, I strongly support the reinstatement of a ban on assault weapons. A national ban on the sale, import, and manufacture of assault weapons was passed in 1994, but it expired in 2004. While I was not in Congress when this law was approved, I subsequently voted to oppose repeal of the Assault Weapons Ban, and I have cosponsored legislation to reinstate it. I also believe that we need to have a larger discussion in this country about mental health and the types of services that exist for people who need help. Maybe one or more of our local mass murders could have been avoided if John Shick, George Sodini, Richard Baumhammers, Ronald Taylor, and possibly Richard Poplawski had received the necessary help. I agree with President Obama that getting the mental health services one needs ought to be as easy as buying a gun. I look forward to the results of Vice President Biden’s interagency task force on gun violence in January – and working with my colleagues in the coming Congress to reduce gun violence in our country. ###
12.14.2012	Washington, D.C. – December 14, 2012 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today requested the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs to conduct an investigative hearing into the outbreak of Legionnaires’ Disease at the Pittsburgh VA. “We need an independent set of eyes to examine the facts surrounding the outbreak of Legionnaires Disease at the Pittsburgh VA,” Congressman Doyle said today. “That’s why I’ve contacted the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Veterans’ Affairs Committee and asked them to determine the causes of the outbreak and ensure that something like this never happens again.” Legionnaires Disease is caused by inhaling water vapor or mist containing Legionella bacteria – often in showers or hot tubs. Thousands of Americans a year contract Legionnaires Disease, and a small number of people die from it – usually individuals who are already in ill health. Some of the most common sources of Legionnaires Disease are water systems in hotels or hospitals. Most such facilities have water treatment equipment to kill Legionella bacteria. On November 16, the Pittsburgh VA announced that an outbreak of Legionnaires Disease had taken place at its University Drive facility in Pittsburgh, infecting four patients. The VA subsequently announced that a fifth patient had contracted the disease – and subsequently, that one of the five had died. The VA implemented remedial measures and restricted water use at the facility until testing indicated that the danger from Legionnaires Disease had been successfully addressed. The CDC has conducted a epidemiological study of the outbreak and is in the process of writing up its report. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has directed engineers to examine the water treatment equipment at the Oakland VA facility in Pittsburgh. Over the last few weeks a number of allegations have been made about the cause of the outbreak, Congressman Doyle and his staff have been in touch with both the Pittsburgh VA and the CDC, but a great deal of relevant information has not yet been made public. Patients and employees of the Pittsburgh VA have expressed concern about the safety of this facility. Congressman Doyle concluded that it was necessary to request an investigation by an independent objective entity to determine what happened and what should be done to ensure that it never happens again. He felt that the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs was the best organization to conduct such a review, so yesterday he sent the Committee a letter requesting a hearing on the outbreak. “I believe that your Committee should utilize all tools available, including subpoena power, to assist with determining the cause of this deadly outbreak to protect against future failures,” Congressman Doyle wrote in the letter. “It is imperative that we identify the problem and address it in order to restore public confidence in the VAPHS. I ask you to convene a hearing on this issue expeditiously so that we can come to a better understanding of where systematic failures occurred, and how they can best be addressed in the future.” Click here to read the entire letter. ###
12.05.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) joined 150 other House Democrats today in signing a discharge petition to bring a bill extending the expiring Bush middle-class tax cuts to the House Floor for a vote. Afterwards, he released the following statement: “The Bush tax cuts are scheduled to expire at the end of this month. Failure to act would cost the typical middle class family an average of $2,200 next year. The vast majority of Americans support extending the expiring tax cuts for individuals with incomes below $200,000 and households with incomes below $250,000. Most Americans also support letting the tax cuts expire for individuals with incomes of more than $200,000 and households with incomes of more than $250,000. “So do Democrats in Congress. Democrats in the Senate passed H.R. 15, a bill that would extend these expiring income tax cuts for the middle class, back in July. This legislation would extend these tax cuts for 98 percent of all Americans and 97 percent of small businesses. Unfortunately, the Republican House Leadership has refused to allow a vote on this bill in the House. “Time is running out. If Congress doesn’t act soon, most Americans will see their taxes increase dramatically come January 1st. “Today, I joined 150 other House Democrats in signing a discharge petition that under House rules would force House Speaker John Boehner to bring H.R. 15 to the Floor for a vote. House rules include a process for allowing a majority of Representatives to compel the House leadership to bring a bill to the House Floor for a vote. Once 218 Members of Congress sign a discharge petition for a particular bill, it can be brought to the Floor for a vote – usually within about two weeks (specifically on the second and fourth Mondays of the month). If the House is to vote on H.R. 15 before the 112th Congress adjourns, we will have to collect the additional signatures quickly. “I will continue to do everything I can to protect middle-class Americans and our nation’s small businesses.” ###
12.04.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) praised today’s decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, which struck down Verizon Wireless’ challenge of the Federal Communications Commission’s rules regarding data roaming. This court ruling upholds the FCC’s decision to require wireless carriers to offer data roaming to one another on “commercially reasonable terms.” “I applaud this important court decision to protect consumers from racking up exorbitant data charges when roaming outside of their own carrier’s network,” Congressman Doyle said today. “This decision emphasizes the importance of keeping competitive wireless carriers strong, and it is going to make it much easier for many consumers to use their mobile devices while they're traveling or commuting.” “All wireless carriers must be able to offer data services at comparative speeds to other wireless providers in order to stay competitive, given how important mobile services have been in today’s economy,” Congressman Doyle added. “I was glad to see Chairman Genachowksi’s leadership in implementing the FCC’s rules in 2011, and I am glad to see the FCC’s authority to protect wireless subscribers reaffirmed today.” Congressman Doyle is a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and its Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, which have jurisdiction over wireless telecommunications issues. He has been active for years working to help consumers and innovators by promoting greater competition in the wireless communications market. Congressman Doyle, along with other Members of the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, sent a letter to the FCC in March 2011 in support of the agency’s data roaming rules. Click here for a copy of the letter. ###
11.27.2012	Washington, D.C. — The head of the Air Reserve confirmed in a meeting today with Congressmen Tim Murphy (PA-18) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) that the Air Force’s attempt to close the 911th Airlift Wing had nothing to do with potential savings, or even costs at the 911th compared to other installations. Murphy and Doyle met with Lieutenant General James Jackson, who is the head of the Air Force Reserve, in an effort to shed light on the Air Force’s attempt to close the 911th Airlift Wing in Moon Township. Air Force officials are currently trying to build support for a new proposal that would save roughly $8 billion and close down the 911th once a temporary law preventing closure expires in March of 2013. During questioning by Messrs. Murphy and Doyle, Lt. Gen. Jackson revealed higher-ranking officials in the Air Force told the Reserve, Guard, and active duty command to evaluate for closure all facilities with fewer than 300 civilian employees. Only one base was listed in the data set: the 911th. During the meeting, Lt. Gen. Jackson admitted the decision to close the 911th was made because it was the easiest route to take. Jackson also said the Air Force did not perform a comparison of operating costs at bases before making its recommendations for cuts. Following the meeting, Reps. Murphy and Doyle released this joint statement:“After months of championing the strategic value of the 911th Airlift Wing, we’re astonished to learn the very advantages of the base are being used against it. Despite being cost-effective, critical to national security, and an asset to our local economy, the Air Force is attempting to close the 911th for one reason only — because they can, not because they should. Closure of the 911th has nothing to do with efficiency or capabilities. According to the Air Force’s disputed calculations, the 911th has fewer than 300 authorized civilian employees, allowing the Pentagon to close the 911th without congressional review. It’s clear all prior materials and cost-analysis provided by the Air Force were used to justify a decision based on a ‘universe of one.’” “We’re now more committed than ever to fighting a decision that was misguided, mistaken, and misinformed. During our meeting, the Air Force Reserve did agree to provide us with an apples-to-apples comparison of operating costs at reserve installations. It is our expectation that this cost analysis will confirm that the 911th Airlift Wing is not only invaluable to military’s overall strategic mission, but also one of the most cost-effective installations in the country.” After successfully writing a provision into law to temporarily prevent the Air Force from shutting down the 911th Airlift Wing in Moon Township, Reps. Murphy and Doyle have pledged to continue fighting to save the 911th Airlift Wing. This week, the Senate is taking up draft legislation that prohibits aircraft retirements or transfers through September 2013, which is the end of the 2013 fiscal year. The House has already approved a similar bill. Murphy and Doyle are also working with Pennsylvania’s senators to strengthen legislation blocking back-door base closures by the Pentagon. ###
11.16.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced his belief that any agreement addressing the upcoming “fiscal cliff” should reflect certain basic principles. “I share the President’s view that any agreement must be balanced and fair,” Congressman Doyle said this afternoon, “Those two principles will guide my actions.” “Any plan to avoid the fiscal cliff should include a balance of both spending cuts and new revenues,” Congressman Doyle explained. “Moreover, it must ask all Americans to share in the sacrifice – not just the poor and middle class, who are affected the most by spending cuts, but also the wealthiest households, which have benefited the most from the Bush tax cuts over the last 12 years.” The term “fiscal cliff” refers to more than $500 billion in tax increases and spending cuts that are scheduled to take effect at the end of this year. If no action is taken by Congress to avert the “fiscal cliff,” the following federal policy changes will kick in: • $399 billion in tax increases: o $221 billion tax increase caused by the scheduled expiration of the Bush tax cuts and the Alternative Minimum Tax “patch” o $95 billion tax increase caused by the scheduled expiration of the 2 percent payroll tax holiday o $83 billion tax increase caused by scheduled changes in other federal tax provisions • $102 billion in spending cuts: o $65 billion in across-the-board spending cuts (“Sequestration”) required by the Budget Control Act o $26 billion in reduced spending due to the scheduled expiration of emergency unemployment benefits o $11 in reduced spending due to scheduled reductions in reimbursement rates for Medicare service providers “I believe that any Congressional action addressing the fiscal cliff should protect the working and middle classes, and I will be working to achieve that goal in the days and weeks ahead,” Congressman Doyle added. ###
10.16.2012	Pittsburgh, PA – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) released a report on the impact that the budget passed by the Republican-controlled U.S. House of Representatives would have on the older Americans in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “This report shows that the Ryan Republican budget would be devastating for seniors in Pittsburgh,” Congressman Doyle said in releasing the report. “That’s why I voted against the Ryan budget when it was considered by Congress earlier this year, and why I am fighting hard to oppose Congressional Republicans’ misguided priorities.” The report concluded that the budget introduced by Republican Congressman Paul Ryan and passed by the House of Representatives in 2012 would hurt seniors by: Eliminating new preventive care benefits for 113,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district. Forcing 113,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the district who are currently enrolled in traditional Medicare to pay thousands of dollars more in premiums to remain in traditional Medicare after Medicare becomes a voucher (“premium support”) program. Reducing coverage for 20,200 Medicare beneficiaries who rely on Medicaid to supplement their Medicare coverage, potentially denying them over $710 million in health benefits. Jeopardizing nursing home care for 1,600 district residents whose expenses are paid by Medicaid. Increasing prescription drug costs for 11,400 Medicare beneficiaries in the district who enter the Part D donut hole, forcing them to pay an extra $105 million for drugs over the next decade. Raising food costs for 12,700 district households with seniors who rely on food stamps by as much as $1,100 per year or eliminate food assistance for many of these households entirely. Threatening affordable housing programs that provide rental support for 3,300 district households with seniors. Placing 91,000 district seniors at increased risk of fraud, scams, and elder abuse by cutting as much as $6 billion in funding for federal consumer protection and law enforcement. Want to know how hard Paul Ryan’s budget plan would hit future seniors in Pittsburgh? You can read the whole report here. ###
09.27.2012	Pittsburgh, PA – September 27, 2012 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) welcomed news today that the number of jobs created over the last four years now exceeds the number of the jobs lost over that same period of time. “More than 4.6 million private sector jobs have been created over the last four years,” Congressman Doyle observed. “That’s more than the number of jobs lost over that same period of time.” “We’ve now had 30 straight months of private sector job growth,” he added. “While millions of Americans are still looking for work, that’s still very welcome news.” “The Obama Administration’s economic policies contributed significantly to the job creation and economic growth that’s currently under way,” Congressman Doyle said. “There’s still more to do, however, and we’d be a lot farther along in terms of job creation if Republicans in Congress hadn’t worked so hard over the last four years to block, dilute, and discredit those policies.' “Many Democrats in Congress, myself included, believed that the Recovery Act should have been substantially larger – and should have included more investment in our nation’s infrastructure,” Congressman Doyle noted, “but we had to cut it back to get the Republican votes that Democrats in the Senate needed to pass it. The president’s jobs act has been stuck in Congress now for over a year due to Republican opposition. And the House Republican Leadership refused to even bring up a transportation jobs bill that passed the Senate with widespread bipartisan support. The pattern of Republican obstructionism is clear.” The U.S. Department of Labor released a report today revising preliminary estimates of the number of jobs created between April 2011 and March 2012 upward by 386,000. This revision brings the total number of jobs created since January 2009 to 4.6 million, which exceeds the number of jobs lost since then by 125,000. “Millions of Americans still need jobs, and Democrats have proposed a number of bills to create more jobs – like President Obama’s American Jobs Act,” Congressman Doyle added. “On the other hand, Congressional Republicans have offered dozens of bills with the word “jobs” in the titles, but none of these bills would actually do much to create new jobs.” “Job creation is my top priority in Congress, and I will continue to work with anyone in the House who wants to enact real job-creation legislation that helps the millions of Americans who are looking for work and struggling to make ends meet.” ###
08.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) praised the Department of Commerce for awarding a $2 million Economic Development Administration grant to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) of Pittsburgh for additional redevelopment of Bakery Square in the Larimer section of the City. “This federal grant will help provide the public infrastructure necessary for the second phase of the Bakery Square redevelopment, which has brought new life to the old Nabisco bakery site,” Congressman Doyle said today at the press conference announcing the award. “Bakery Square has been a great example of a successful public-private partnership to redevelop and re-purpose an old industrial site and revitalize a distressed community. Bakery Square 2.0 will build on the original project’s success and create more office and lab space for Google, UPMC, other current tenants, and new tenants from local universities and medical centers.” Nabisco built a large bakery in the Pittsburgh neighborhood of Larimer in 1918 and operated it for the next 80 years. In 1999, after Nabisco closed the facility, the Regional Industrial Development Corporation of Southwest Pennsylvania bought the building and leased it for several years to the Atlantic Baking Company, but the company went bankrupt several years later. In 2006, the City declared the vacant facility blighted, and the following year the property was sold to Walnut Capital, which began redeveloping the site. The redevelopment of Bakery Square involved government at the federal, state, and local levels, as well as more than $100 million in private investment. Work on the site was completed in 2010, and Google moved its Pittsburgh headquarters there. The $130 million project is approaching its projection for creating more than 2,000 jobs. The Bakery Square project has been a huge success, but the facility has reached its limits while demand for space continues to grow. In response, Walnut Capital has purchased a 12-acre site across the street from Bakery Square from the Pittsburgh School District and is working with the URA to redevelop it. This new phase of redevelopment has been tagged “Bakery Square 2.0.” It will include offices, labs, retail, and residential components. “Since I was elected to Congress, my top priority has been creating new jobs in southwestern Pennsylvania,” Congressman Doyle said. “Consequently, I have supported federal programs that target economically distressed communities for revitalization – programs like environmental assessment and remediation, infrastructure investment, job training, and tax incentives like the New Market Tax Credit. I’ve also worked to promote federal investments that play to Pittsburgh’s strengths – like our world-class research universities and our experience in manufacturing and engineering. In addition, I’ve worked successfully to secure federal funding for specific projects here in Pittsburgh with a lot of potential for creating new jobs – like CMU’s CyLab, the Monroeville Supercomputing Center, and the McGowan Institute for Regenerative Medicine. Federal assistance like that has been invaluable in helping this region recover from the collapse of the steel industry in the 1970s and 1980s. The grant we’re announcing today is just the latest example of how the federal government is helping communities like ours rebuild and retool for the economic opportunities of the 21st Century. Bakery Square 2.0 will transform obsolete public school facilities into a mixed-use development based on high-tech and medicine, two major growth sectors in the coming years.” The EDA grant will be used for construction of public infrastructure like streets and utilities for the office portion of the site, and other government funding will be used for other site preparation activities, but the vast majority of the funding for this $120 million project will come from the private sector. ###
08.17.2012	Washington, D.C. – August 17, 2012 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) joined local officials and other members of the region’s Congressional delegation in breaking ground on a new commissary in Moon Township. “This couldn’t have happened without the continuous, dedicated efforts and cooperation of people all over this region, and I’m honored to have been a part of this remarkable community effort,” Congressman Doyle said at the ground-breaking ceremony. “We never gave up hope, we never took ‘no’ for an answer, and we kept on pushing year after year. As a result of that effort, we’re finally here today to mark the start of construction on this important new facility.” In 2005, the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) recommended closing the Charles E. Kelly Support Facility (CEKSF) in Oakdale. Closing the facility meant that 168,000 military personnel and veterans lost the Commissary, Post Exchange, and Military Clothing Sales Store services that they had come to rely on. In the years since then, members of the previous and current delegation took numerous steps to see the project become a reality, including fighting to keep the facility open, securing funds to build a new Commissary, and fighting to get final authorization for the project from the Department of Defense. The Army and Air Force Exchange Services have recently committed to construct a Post Exchange – which will provide additional services to local military personnel, retirees, and their families – adjacent to the commissary. With the construction of the commissary and a Post Exchange, many important services will continue to be available to the military families and eligible retirees in the tri-state area. “I’d like to express my gratitude to all our current service members – active duty, reserve, and guard alike for serving our country in Iraq, Afghanistan, here at home, and all over the world,” Doyle said today. “We can’t begin to express the gratitude we owe them and their families for the sacrifices they make for each one of us. We also owe thanks to our retirees who served our country in the past. That’s what this is all about, in the end, and why so many of us have worked so hard for so long to make certain that our current service personnel, our retirees, and their families continue to have access to the support services they deserve.”
07.18.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement in response to President Obama’s announcement yesterday of the establishment of a national Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Master Teacher Corps. “I strongly support President Obama’s proposal to improve US student achievements in science, technology, engineering, and math by attracting, rewarding, and retaining high-performing teachers in these fields. “There’s real cause for concern that we may be losing our edge in these fields. American youth have been falling behind in STEM education evaluations compared to students in other countries. “Our nation’s future economic growth depends in no small part on retaining our historic advantage in research and innovation – but we won’t be able to remain a world leader in science, technology, engineering, and math if we don’t have a workforce with the necessary background and skills. “I commend President Obama for recognizing this national challenge and moving decisively to address it.” Click here for more information on the President’s STEM Master Teacher plan. ###
07.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement following the House vote on H.R. 6079, legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “I opposed this blatantly political 31st attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “Repeal of the Affordable Care Act would mean that insurance companies would once again be allowed to engage in discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions, capping the benefits they will pay over a policy-holder’s lifetime, and kicking kids off their parents’ insurance policies. “Repeal of the Affordable Care Act would mean that the Medicare Part D prescription drug “donut hole” would continue to impose billions of dollars in higher medical bills on older Americans – and that Medicare beneficiaries would again have to pay out of pocket for preventive services. “Repeal of the Affordable Care Act would mean that health insurance would remain out of reach for tens of millions of Americans who currently can’t afford it – or who can’t get it at any price. “And repeal of the Affordable Care Act would mean that most Americans will pay more for their health care in the coming years than they would under this landmark health care reform bill. “House Republicans are holding their 31st vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act with the full knowledge that repeal won’t become law – and without offering up a plan to replace it. We’ve wasted this week on a political stunt when we could – and should – have been spending it working on legislation to create jobs. “I hope that now, after 31 votes, House Republicans have gotten this out of their system and we can finally put it behind us, give the new law a chance to work, and move on to the challenge of creating more new jobs.” The House passed H.R. 6079 on a nearly party-line vote of 244 to 185. Congressman Doyle, a supporter of the Affordable Care Act, voted against its repeal. ###
06.28.2012	This morning, Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) and 12 other Members of Congress sent a letter to the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) at the White House in support of policies promoting greater public access to the results of federally funded research. In the letter, Members encouraged the OSTP to implement rules that require federal agencies to permit free access to published works funded by federal dollars. Such policies would “promote the broadest possible return on taxpayer investment in academic research,” the Members wrote. “The Internet has made access to information exponentially easier and faster,” Congressman Doyle said. “So it’s only logical that we help our scientists share their research as widely as possible online, to encourage greater collaboration and innovation in the sciences. I think this is the wave of the future and I urge the OSTP to implement public access policies to support our nation’s leadership in the sciences. I think keeping taxpayer-funded research behind expensive paywalls runs counter to the goals of encouraging continued U.S. economic competitiveness.” The Members point out in the letter that public access policies are “well-tested, common sense efforts that have not led to any known reports of job losses or financial cutbacks in the publishing industry. On the other hand, they have received the utmost praise of innovators and researchers whose access to that data expands the value of federal R&D investment.” The letter was signed by Reps. Mike Doyle, Kevin Yoder, Wm. Lacy Clay, Henry Waxman, Michael Fitzpatrick, Zoe Lofgren, Bobby Rush, Jared Polis, Ron Paul, Michael Capuano, Russ Carnahan, Tim Holden, and Donald Manzullo. The text of the letter follows below. Click here to see the actual letter. June 28, 2012 John P. Holdren Director Office of Science and Technology Policy Executive Office of the President 725 17th Street Room 5228 Washington, DC 20502 Dear Dr. Holdren: We have followed with great interest the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy’s ongoing examination of policies to promote public access to federally funded research. We believe that greater transparency of taxpayer funded research is critical to ensuring continued U.S. leadership in scientific innovation and academic research. We also believe that public access policies would allow students nationwide to access a broader array of academic works through university libraries that have suffered from reduced funding. Accordingly, we urge the OSTP to act quickly to make federally funded research more accessible to academics, university students, and the American taxpayer. We write today to emphasize the demonstrated, immediate need for public access policies at U.S. federal agencies. A growing number of experts indicate that the U.S. is rapidly falling behind in global leadership in the sciences. Reports demonstrate that from 1996 to 2008, the United States dropped 20 percent relative to other nations in its share of scientific journal publications. While we believe a continued commitment to research and development is an important component of investment in U.S. economic competitiveness, the added value of making research publicly available is that it can exponentially increase collaboration and intelligent knowledge sourcing among researchers. Public access policies can help to boost the value of academic works by exposing them to larger audiences and increasing the potential for citations. Public access policies for government-funded research have been functioning successfully for several years outside of the U.S., at the Research Councils United Kingdom, the Higher Education Funding Council for England, the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, as well as domestically at the National Institutes of Health. Public access policies for faculty research have also been in place for years at dozens of renowned universities in the United States, including Harvard University, Stanford University, University of Kansas, Carnegie Mellon University, Duke University, and many others. Such policies are not based in avant-garde ideas. They are well-tested, common sense efforts that have not led to any known reports of job losses or financial cutbacks in the publishing industry. On the other hand, they have received the utmost praise of innovators and researchers whose access to that data expands the value of federal R&D investment. Further, we believe simply that taxpayers who fund research should be able to have access to research results. While we value the editorial contributions of the publishing industry in producing a final research product, we do not support keeping publicly funded research behind expensive paywalls that force the public to pay twice for access to research. Support for public access policies is widespread and growing. As you are likely aware, last month, a petition in support of public access policies on the White House’s We The People website received, over the course of less than two weeks, more than 25,000 signatures – enough to prompt White House consideration. In addition, public access is supported by over 130 university and college presidents and provosts, as well as libraries, countless student organizations, renowned scientists including 52 Nobel laureates, as well as a growing number of forward-looking university, commercial, and nonprofit publishers. Importantly, a recent legislative effort aimed to limit public access policies and roll back the National Institutes of Health’s already established PubMed Central repository met with overwhelming public opposition and was ultimately withdrawn. Given the critical nature of public access to encourage continued U.S. leadership in the sciences, we urge the OSTP to direct federal agencies to implement public access policies and promote the broadest possible return on taxpayer investment in academic research. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, ###
06.28.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) issued the following statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision this morning upholding the health care reform law enacted in 2010. “Today, the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act. This is a very welcome development. “This is a good day for the 30 million Americans who don’t have health insurance, the millions of young people who can now stay on their parents’ insurance until they’re 26, the millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions, the seniors who would have fallen into Medicare Prescription drug donut hole, and the families who would have been bankrupted by health care costs if this law had been struck down. “If the Supreme Court had struck health care reform down, millions of Americans would have ended up paying more for health insurance down the road – and they might not have been able to get any health insurance at all if they have a pre-existing condition. Insurance companies would once again have been able to cherry-pick customers, deny coverage and discriminate against individuals, drop someone even when their policy was all paid up, and slap annual and lifetime limits on how much money they will spend for a patient’s care. Millions of Americans wouldn’t even be able to afford health insurance. And millions of Americans would have gone bankrupt from health care costs they couldn’t pay for. “Opponents of health care reform have pledged to continue to work to repeal health care reform. I will continue to oppose such efforts, and I look forward to seeing just what policies they will propose for making affordable, high quality health care available to all Americans.” As a result of the Affordable Care Act, which was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court this morning 105 million Americans no longer have a lifetime limit on their coverage, including 900,000 people in the PGH metro area. Up to 17 million children with pre-existing conditions can no longer be denied coverage by insurers, including up to 120,000 children in the PGH metro area. 54 million Americans in private plans are already eligible for free preventive services, including more than 100,000 children, 450,000 adults, and 300,000 seniors in the Pittsburgh metro area. 54 million Americans in private plans are eligible for free preventive health care services, including more than 850,000 people in Pittsburgh metro area. Over 6 million young adults nationwide have gained insurance coverage, including thousands of young adults in the Pittsburgh metro area 5.3 million seniors in the ‘donut hole’ have saved $3.7 billion in Medicare prescription drug costs so far, including 60,000 seniors in the metro area who saved $36.3 million, an average discount of $615 per senior. Last year, 360,000 small employers used the Small Business Health Care Tax Credit to help them afford health insurance for 2 million employees. Click here for more information about the benefits the Affordable Care Act is providing to residents of the Pittsburgh metro area already. Click here for information about how the Affordable Care Act will affect you. ###
06.19.2012	Washington, DC – June 19, 2012 -- U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation has awarded a $15 million grant to the City of Pittsburgh to replace the decrepit East Liberty Transit Center with a new multimodal East Liberty Transit Center. “I’m very pleased that the Department of Transportation recognized the value and importance of replacing the current East Liberty Transit Center,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Improving the transportation network in East Liberty is an essential component of the plan to revitalize this part of Pittsburgh. I was glad to be able to provide support for the City’s grant application.” Representative Doyle strongly supported the project. He lobbied DoT in support of the City’s application earlier this year and organized a delegation letter in support of it. This grant was awarded under the federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (‘‘TIGER”) Grant program. These grants, which are competitively awarded, can be used on transportation projects like highways, bridges, public transportation, passenger and freight railroads, and marine ports. Grants range in size from $1 million up to $200 million. TIGER Grants may be used for up to 80 percent of the costs of a project. Last year, Congressman Doyle was successful in helping the Redevelopment Authority of Allegheny County win a $10 million TIGER grant to build a “fly-over” ramp to improve access to the Carrie Furnaces redevelopment site in the Mon Valley. Click here to read about the TIGER Grant program. ###
06.18.2012	I've just updated my web site to serve you better. It's my hope that it will be easier to use and provide more information. It's very likely, however, that there will be some glitches that we need to fix. If you find a link or a form that's not working - or any other errors/problems/suggestions, for that matter - please contact my office at this email address: webmaster. Thank you for your help in making this web site better.
06.06.2012	Washington, DC – June 5, 2012 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA) issued the following statement today following reports that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is considering whether to halt the approval of pricing flexibility requests by telecommunications carriers: “This move by the Genachowski FCC is a major first step in addressing special access reform. The Commission is right to recognize that its pricing flexibility triggers have not functioned in a manner that promotes competition in the wireline and wireless markets in this country. This is a problem that has been widely acknowledged, and I hope the FCC will act quickly on this issue. I also urge the agency to continue to push forward and enact stronger rules on special access pricing, terms, and conditions. This is not just about a battle between carriers. This is about the pocketbooks of consumers and small businesses. They need all the relief they can get. Let’s get this done.”
05.16.2012	Washington, DC – Earlier today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA) spoke in favor of policies to increase public access to the results of federally funded research at a panel discussion on that issue held at The Brookings Institution in Washington, DC.Congressman Doyle has introduced legislation that would require that certain federally funded research be accessible online to the public within 6 months of its publication in a peer-reviewed journal, in order to facilitate innovation and research in the sciences (HR 4004 – the Federal Research Public Access Act.His statement follows below: Good afternoon. I would like to thank the Brookings Institution for inviting me to speak here at this important event. Thank you also to our panelists for joining us to continue to work through the issue of public access to federally funded research. I think everyone here will agree that the Internet has been an agent of remarkable change over the course of the last 20 years. More than anything we’ve seen in our lifetimes, it has revolutionized the way people communicate and the way many businesses operate. It is making it possible for people to talk to families and friends in real time, even when they’re thousands of miles away. And it’s making it easier for innovators and researchers to communicate faster and more effectively. This is what we are here to talk about today. Just like every other Internet user, scientists are also seeking to be able to communicate better through the web. They realize the Internet’s potential to allow them to access information faster and disseminate their research more widely.There is a substantial benefit from making research more accessible to the public. The more minds are at work on a problem, the better the chance it has of being solved. And scientists know this, which is why they want as many people to see their work as possible.But in the current political and economic climate, many university libraries are seeing drastic budget cuts. Even the most prominent research institutions in the country are feeling strained by funding reductions. So they are forced to cut back on spending and to cancel subscriptions to important academic journals. To me, this is a very worrisome development. In Pittsburgh, the region I represent in Congress, we are lucky to have some of the most renowned research institutions in the country – from schools like Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh, to government institutions like the National Energy Technology Lab, to research labs run by private for-profit companies like Westinghouse. These institutions are constantly making advances that create jobs along with revolutionary new products. There are dozens of high-tech companies in western Pennsylvania that are spin-offs from research done at local universities. And much of their work is based in whole or in part on federally funded research.I think it is critical that we protect the ability of these institutions and others nationwide to innovate. We must not let an economic downturn get in the way of critical research in energy, health care, engineering, and other fields. This country has been home to some of the most vital and influential scientific discoveries in the world, and those discoveries have driven our economy in recent decades. According to the OECD, the U.S. spent $400 billion dollars on research and development in 2010, and one-third of that money was funded by the federal government. I think we have to do everything we can to get the most out of those research dollars so we can maintain our role as a world leader in research and development. But when libraries have to cut back on journal subscriptions, that has a very serious impact on the ability of college students and university researchers to access the data they need for their work. If that one really great journal article you need isn’t accessible through your library, that’s going to prolong your research process or shift your research in a different direction.Journal subscriptions are among the largest expenses for libraries – often THE largest. Subscription fees range anywhere from a few hundred dollars to more than 20,000 dollars a year for access to each journal. So the average academic library spends nearly 2 million dollars per year on academic journal subscriptions. That’s a substantial amount of money.Those subscription fees go to journal publishers, who use them to recoup their costs for copy editing, formatting, and printing an article in a journal. In fact, library subscription fees comprise an estimated 80% of the average journal publisher’s revenue base. While the role of the publishing community has been very significant in disseminating research results, I think it’s noteworthy that the largest commercial publishing companies have made enormous profits from receiving subscription fees. The average profit margin for commercial publishers in 2011 has been estimated at around 35 percent. That’s also a substantial amount of money.I don’t mean to understate the important function of the publishing community. I think journal publishers contribute a great deal to making a final academic research product presentable to the public. That contribution should be valued and respected. But publishers are also restricting access to that research with such high subscription fees. And that imposes real costs on our society, especially today when our economic growth depends upon knowledge-based industries.I believe it’s in our national economic interest to help scientists share ideas better, in order to solve crucial research questions faster. Companies that spend their own money on research have an obvious interest in restricting others’ access to their results, and they have every right to do so. But when research is funded by the federal government with taxpayer’s money, the public has the right to see the results. What’s more, as I suggested a moment ago, our society, more than most, benefits from the rapid dissemination of publicly funded research. And so I believe the federal government has an obligation to ensure that it has policies in place to disseminate the research it funds as rapidly and efficiently as possible. The bill I introduced in the House of Representatives seeks to find a balance between the business model of journal publishers and the tangible benefits of making federally funded research more broadly accessible. My bill, the Federal Research Public Access Act, would require all agencies with an outside research budget of 100 million dollars or more to make articles supported by federal dollars available online 6 months after publication in a journal.As many of you know, the White House announced a few years ago that it, too, is interested in the idea of making federally funded research available to the public. I am pleased to see that the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the White House has collected comments from the public about this issue, and is currently preparing recommendations for next steps. I eagerly await the outcome of the OSTP process.One thing we already know for sure is that public access policies have not been demonstrated to cause financial harm to the publishing industry – quite the opposite, in fact. Since the National Institutes of Health implemented its policy four years ago as a result of congressional mandate, no publisher has reported subscription cancellations resulting from the articles being available on the NIH’s PubMed Central web site.On the other hand, I have heard a whole lot of praise for the NIH’s effort from a wide range of students, scientists, libraries, and university chancellors. Even some publishers have come out in support of the NIH policy, as well as my bill, because they see the value in giving something back to the public that funds the research they publish.My bill spells out a shorter, 6-month embargo than the NIH’s 12-month policy contains. Some have raised concerns that 6 months are too short for the publishing industry. But to this date, I have not received any credible data to show that a longer embargo is necessary. In fact, most of the funders around the world who have similar public access policies, like the Research Councils in the UK and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, use a 6-month embargo period. Like them, I think taxpayers should have access to articles as quickly as possible. But I am working with our stakeholders on this point and will be glad to continue this important conversation.I hope that the panel discussion today will delve into some of these issues in greater detail so that our audience can continue to learn more about why public access is so important for education and innovation. I’m glad we’re having events like this because I think this issue really does speak to our nation’s role as a leader in scientific development. Thank you again for having me here. ###
05.15.2012	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) presented Iesha Grady from Penn Hills High School with the First Prize in the 2012 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Ms. Grady’s artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is an oil pastel drawing entitled “Harmless Apple Juice?” Her work was selected out of a field of 45 entries from 10 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. Maggie Morgans from West Mifflin High School was awarded second place for her pastel composition “Snowmaggedon.” Sara Hopkins from Northgate High School received third place for her pencil drawing entitled “Britney.” Jasper Means from Penn Hills High School was awarded fourth place for his watercolor “Life Saving Station #7.” Stephanie Taylor from South Allegheny High School was given fifth place for her oil painting “Shades of Green.” This is the third year in a row that one of Stephanie’s works has placed in this competition. Last year she took Second Place, and in 2010 her painting was the winner. The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held at Carnegie Mellon University’s University Center in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the seventeenth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition. Due to the large number of outstanding works of art submitted for this competition, the judges awarded the following 10 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Alexis Yauch of McKeesport High School Sara Hopkins of Northgate High School Morgan Turner of Northgate High School Mikaila Hoffman from Pittsburgh Allderdice High School Erin Hart of Riverview High School Dan O’Leary of Riverview High School Ashley Reid of Riverview High School Stephanie Taylor of South Allegheny High School Elizabeth Thornton from Sto-Rox High School Julian Moriarty from Woodland Hills High School ###
04.12.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that today the FCC released a Low Power FM (LPFM) Channel Finder Tool to help aspiring low power FM radio license applicants locate potential space on the dial for new stations. “The FCC has published an excellent tool to help people start thinking about where they might apply for LPFM licenses,” Congressman Doyle said in response to the FCC's action. “I encourage everyone who might be interested to go online and explore this new service. While the FCC is still finalizing its rules, this tool is a great place for applicants to start planning. As always, I am thankful for Chairman Genachowski’s leadership in moving this important process forward.” While applicants will not be able to file for licenses until the FCC finalizes its rules on LPFM and formally opens a licensing window, this tool provides an opportunity for people to explore potential channel availability based on the rules the FCC already put into place last month. The FCC’s tool is available at https://www.fcc.gov/encyclopedia/low-power-fm-lpfm-channel-finder. LPFM channel availability is subject to change based on the outcome of the FCC’s ongoing proceeding. Until the FCC’s publication of this service, the only tools accessible for free to the general public were those designed by community radio advocates, such as Prometheus Radio Project and REC Networks. ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against a Republican budget plan that would undermine safety net programs for senior citizens, shift more of the burden of deficit reduction onto the poor, elderly, and middle class, and destroy millions of jobs and plunge the U.S. economy back into recession. “The Republican budget would let Medicare wither on the vine, cut Medicaid by a third, dramatically increase out of pocket costs for seniors, and eviscerate programs that help the poor and the middle class while it provides an average of $150,000 in tax cuts for millionaires,” Congressman Doyle said today. “The Republicans talk about cutting taxes for the middle class, but what they would give the middle class with one hand, they’d take away with the other – and they’d take away much more, in many cases.” The Republican budget plan would lower marginal income tax rates while eliminating middle class tax breaks like deductions for charitable contributions and home mortgage insurance – as well as the deductibility of employer-provided health insurance. “‘Prosperity through austerity’ has never worked,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Neither has giving rich people tax breaks – what we used to call trickle-down economics.” “What’s more, the Republican budget plan is a job killer,” Congressman Doyle added. “Its drastic spending cuts would send our economy into a tailspin and wipe out more than 4 million American jobs.” “Finally, this Republican budget breaks the social contract our country has had for decades – the guarantee that if you work hard and play by the rules all your life, you’ll have a decent minimum standard of living and affordable health care in your old age,” Congressman Doyle said. “I will never support a budget like this that makes devastating cuts in programs most Americans depend upon. “I voted for the Democratic alternatives because each one was better than the Republican budget.” Congressman Doyle voted against the budget plan offered by House Republicans, which was opposed on a bipartisan basis but approved 228 to 191 with 228 Republican votes. Click here for a summary of the House Republicans’ budget. Congressman Doyle voted in favor of the House Democratic alternative budget, the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget, and the Congressional Black Caucus Budget. “Each of these budgets would have preserved programs like Social Security and Medicare while making essential investments that would create jobs now and increase economic growth in the future – and they would have done all that while reducing federal budget deficits in the years to come by requiring millionaires and special interests to pay their fair share,” Congressman Doyle explained. “I supported these budgets because they each reflected more balanced priorities like fairness, opportunity, and compassion for all as well as fiscal responsibility, job creation, and economic growth.” The House Democrats’ budget was rejected by a vote of 163 to 262. The Congressional Progressive Caucus budget was rejected by a vote of 78 to 346. The Congressional Black Caucus budget was rejected by a vote of 107 to 314. Click here for the texts of the substitute budget amendments offered. ###
03.29.2012	Washington, DC – March 29, 2012 – Today Congressman Mike Doyle (D-Pennsylvania) reacted strongly to a new government report that concluded that the prevalence of autism in children is much higher than previously thought. “The CDC’s report is shocking and unexpected,” Congressman Doyle said today, “but this new estimate that one in every 88 children in the United States has been diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder confirms what a serious issue action is and re-emphasizes the urgent need for more federal action on research, diagnosis, early intervention, and treatment dealing with autism.” This report by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control concluded that as of 2008, the prevalence of autism spectrum disorders was 11.3 per 1,000 children aged 8 at that time (or one in 88). This estimate is 23 percent higher than the previous estimate of 9 per 1,000 (or one in 110) children in 2006 – and 78 percent higher than the CDC’s estimate of 6.4 per 1,000 (one in 150) children made in 2002. “The CDC doesn’t know how much of the increase is due to better diagnosis and heightened awareness and how much is due to an actual increase in the prevalence of ASDs,” Congressman Doyle observed. “But what it does tell us is that much more needs to be done to understand the causes of autism spectrum disorders and to provide the proper assistance to individuals with autism.” “Last fall, Congress passed legislation reauthorizing the primary federal programs addressing autism spectrum disorders – the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act,” Congressman Doyle added. “This was essential in order to prevent these important programs from expiring in September 2011, but it was far from all that the federal government needs to do. “At this point, the federal government needs to undertake more research on the causes and proper treatments for autism spectrum disorders. We need to ensure that individuals with ASDs are diagnosed as early as possible so that they can get the proper treatment as soon as possible – because we know that early intervention for young children works. We also need to fund treatment assistance for individuals with autism spectrum disorders – either through federal funding or private insurance coverage. And, finally, we need to ensure that enough health care providers across the country have been trained to diagnose and treat autism spectrum disorders.” “The Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education is working to enact legislation to provide more services to individuals with autism spectrum disorders – especially adults.” H.R. 2007, “The Autism Spectrum Disorders Services Act,” would broaden the existing Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee by expanding public representation and by making services to individuals with autism a major focus. It would also establish a planning and demonstration grant program for services to children, transitioning youth, adults, and individuals of any age who may be at risk of injury, authorize grants for protection and advocacy systems, and create a national training initiative to better equip teachers and autism services providers. Click here to read the CDC report. The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act (Public Law 112-32), which Congressman Doyle co-authored with Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04), renews the nation’s programs for autism early detection, surveillance, research, education, awareness and treatment. Representatives Smith and Doyle are co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE). CARE has consistently worked to increase federal support for autism initiatives, including autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health and the Health Resources and Services Administration. ###
03.29.2012	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) observed the second anniversary of the enactment of health insurance reform by releasing a report detailing the ways in which it is helping residents of the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. "The Affordable Care Act has already provided free preventative care to 800,000 people in our region and ended some of the worst abuses by the private insurance industry," Congressman Doyle observed in releasing the report, which was prepared by the staff of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. "Health care reform has also saved 60,000 seniors an average of $600 each by closing the Medicare Part D prescription drug "donut hole," and it's allowed more than 10,000 young adults to stay on their parents' insurance plans up until they turn 26. March 23rd was the second anniversary of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the health insurance reform bill passed by Congress in 2010. Click here to read the full report.
03.28.2012	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA) joined Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX), Lee Terry (R-NE), Gene Green (D-TX), Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) and Charlie Gonzalez (D-TX) to introduce bipartisan legislation that resolves a conflict in federal law, whereby a company or individual can be held liable for violating environmental laws when complying with a federal order to generate power to avoid blackouts. In recent years, these conflicting federal laws have resulted in lawsuits and heavy fines for electricity providers complying with orders. The bill, H.R. 4273, clarifies that when a company is under an emergency directive to generate or transmit electricity pursuant to Section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act, it will not be considered in violation of environmental laws or regulations, or subject to civil or criminal liability or citizen suits, as a result of its actions to comply with the federal directive. The legislation also directs the Department of Energy to work to minimize adverse environmental impacts in its emergency order. “The federal government should never put an individual or an organization in a position where it has to decide which law to violate,”Congressman Doyle stated. “The federal government shouldn’t order companies to generate electricity to prevent a blackout, and then turn around and fine them for doing it. I’m sure most of my constituents would want to avoid the blackout. That’s why I believe it’s necessary to pass this bill protecting power companies from fines or law suits for complying with a federal government emergency directive to generate electricity.” "This common sense legislation will give peace of mind to Texans facing the potential of rolling blackouts during the hot summer months," Congressman Olson said. "The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) has already warned of rolling blackouts. Electricity providers asked to provide power during an emergency should no longer have to worry about being slapped with lawsuits and heavy fines. More importantly, Texans, especially those most affected by the heat, and residents should not face a loss of power.” "Drastic times call for drastic measures," Congressman Terry said. "During natural disasters, utilities are sometimes ordered to increase their output – to meet urgent needs. This legislation ensures that during such emergencies, utility providers are not penalized for doing what they're instructed to. Nebraskan utilities will benefit from this, as will utility companies all throughout our great country." Congressman Green added, “There currently exists a clear conflict in law and this bipartisan bill will ensure that our electric generating facilities do not have to fear legal repercussions when being ordered to run because of an emergency.” “This legislation ensures that power utilities are able to run in an emergency situation without being penalized by the EPA or sued by a third party,” said Congressman Kinzinger. “This eliminates the issue that occurs when two government agencies give contradictory orders to a power utility and will instead provide a clearer, more expedited path to restore power during blackout periods.” Congressman Gonzalez said, “This legislation will ensure that energy companies no longer have to face the dilemma of trying to comply with outdated, conflicting rules and will be able to meet the critical energy needs of their community during an emergency. Additionally, I am proud that a reasonable solution is being reached in a commonsense, bipartisan manner." H.R. 4273 resolves the conflict between the authority of the Department of Energy (DOE) to direct emergency operation of electric generating facilities to maintain the reliability of the bulk power system and environmental laws. These conflicting legal mandates threaten the reliability of the grid and place the owners of power plants in the untenable position of having to choose between compliance with one law over another. ###
03.28.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) spoke out on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives today in opposition to legislation that would hamstring the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and add unnecessary red tape to an already lengthy and litigious process. “H.R. 3309 would create harmful restrictions to the FCC’s ability to enact consumer protections, and it could also limit the agency’s ability to respond to communications-related emergencies and cyber-security threats,” Congressman Doyle said on the House Floor. H.R. 3309, the FCC Process Reform Act, would add a number of procedural requirements for the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) rulemaking process. It would also limit the agency’s ability to set conditions on transactions relating to corporate mergers and acquisitions. Congressman Doyle cited the example of the Local Community Radio Act (Public Law 111-371), legislation signed into law last year to allow the FCC to license more low-power FM community radio stations, to highlight the likely impact should H.R. 3309 become law. “[P]rovisions in H.R. 3309, such as the requirement for a Notice of Inquiry, could slow down the implementation of this law and many other rulemakings by several years, by adding procedural hurdles for the agency to jump through before it can implement rules,” Congressman Doyle said. “In the case of more contentious policy issues, this bill would create years, maybe decades of deadlock at the FCC.” Congressman Doyle also referred to the ongoing Supreme Court case on the individual mandate in the health care reform law (The Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148) to emphasize the additional delay that H.R. 3309 might impose on the FCC. “[W]e don’t have to look very far this week to witness that our nation’s laws and regulations are already being extensively litigated in the courts,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This legislation would open up the FCC’s process to even further litigation, and it would severely limit the FCC’s ability to protect consumers and create new rules.” Congressman Doyle’s full statement follows below. “This legislation would place severe procedural burdens on the Federal Communications Commission, at a time when telecommunications is such a major part of the lives of my constituents and the American public. H.R. 3309 would create harmful restrictions to the FCC’s ability to enact consumer protections, and it could also limit the agency’s ability to respond to communications-related emergencies and cybersecurity threats. One of the restrictions imposed by H.R. 3309 is a requirement that the FCC issue a Notice of Inquiry before the agency begins work on an actual rulemaking, unless the FCC can demonstrate that a Notice of Inquiry is not necessary. A Notice of Inquiry, Mr. Speaker, is basically an information gathering exercise that lets the public know about the FCC’s intentions to examine an issue and collects initial comments from stakeholders. While in many cases a Notice of Inquiry is a very important part of the FCC’s rulemaking process, a congressional mandate to conduct a Notice of Inquiry in every FCC proceeding would be an enormous procedural burden for the agency. Mr. Speaker, I am concerned that the potential impacts of this legislation have not been fully considered. If I could, I’d like to share just one example of the harmful potential consequences this legislation would have, even for bipartisan goals. Last year, Congress enacted a bill that I authored to create more community-run radio stations around the country. The bill was broadly supported by both sides of the aisle, because so many of our constituents will benefit from more news reporting on local issues and emergency response. The FCC is currently implementing that law, and expects to open a window for radio station licensing sometime in the next year. But provisions in H.R. 3309, such as the requirement for a Notice of Inquiry, could slow down the implementation of this law and many other rulemakings by several years, by adding procedural hurdles for the agency to jump through before it can implement rules. In the case of my legislation, the FCC would have to delay its licensing window because of an unnecessary Notice of Inquiry, forcing communities to wait much longer to get their new radio stations. I think most people would find this kind of delay very frustrating. And this is just one example, Mr. Speaker. In the case of more contentious policy issues, this bill would create years, maybe decades of deadlock at the FCC. Mr. Speaker, we don’t have to look very far this week to witness that our nation’s laws and regulations are already being extensively litigated in the courts. This legislation would open up the FCC’s process to even further litigation, and it would severely limit the FCC’s ability to protect consumers and create new rules. I urge my colleagues to oppose this bill and I yield back to my colleague, Ranking Member Eshoo. ###
03.19.2012	Washington, DC - The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) today took several important steps towards increasing the number of low power FM (LPFM) radio stations nationwide. Following last year’s enactment of the Local Community Radio Act, championed by Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA), today’s FCC action opens the door for more licenses for locally owned and generated noncommercial radio stations around the country. “I want to commend Chairman Genachowski and Commissioners Clyburn and McDowell for taking this important step to diversify our airwaves,” Congressman Doyle said. “Today’s decision lays the groundwork for expanding the availability of the kind of local radio stations that have been so beneficial for the communities where they already operate. This moment is long overdue, and I urge the Commission to move quickly to wrap up the final leg of its work on this issue as soon as possible so it can begin to license new stations. “I would also like to urge people to get in touch with the FCC to find out more about the application process. The FCC will provide critical resources and helpful guidance to interested applicants, and I’m thankful for their efforts to make this procedure easier for people to navigate.” The FCC held two votes on LPFM today. First, it enacted parameters on where LPFM stations will be available on the radio dial nationwide. Second, the agency began to collect comments from the public on proposed rules relating to other technical details for implementation. When those rules are finalized, the FCC will begin to accept applications for new LPFM licenses. Congressman Doyle has been an outspoken supporter of low power FM radio for over a decade. He was the sponsor of the Local Community Radio Act, which directed the FCC to license more LPFM radio stations. The FCC is now in the process of implementing the provisions of that law. ###
02.15.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) offered an amendment requiring TransCanada, the company proposing to build the Keystone XL pipeline, to document its claims that 75 percent of the steel used in the pipeline will be made in the United States. “TransCanada has repeatedly assured Congress that 75 percent of the steel used in the Keystone XL pipeline will be made in North America,” Congressman Doyle observed. “And yet, this company has been unwilling or unable to provide us with documentation to back up that statement.” “This amendment simply requires TransCanada to formally certify what it has repeatedly told Congress in order to get the permit for its pipeline,” Congressman Doyle added. “That doesn’t seem unreasonable.” The proposed 1,600 mile Keystone XL pipeline would transport over a million barrels of oil a day from Alberta, Canada, to refineries in Texas on the Gulf of Mexico. TransCanada has repeatedly touted the domestic manufacturing opportunities presented by the Keystone XL pipeline project. For example, on December 2, 2011, Alex Pourbaix of TransCanada Corporation testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee that “[w]e are using the latest technologies and the strongest steel pipe from American mills to build the pipeline.” And on February 2, 2012, TransCanada informed Committee staff that “[a]pproximately 74% of the pipe required for the Project in the United States was sourced from North American based mills -- Evraz Regina Canada and Welspun Little Rock, U.S.” And yet, Welspun Little Rock makes steel pipe from imported foreign steel at its facility in Little Rock. The plant also currently houses ready-made steel pipe imported from India for use in the Keystone XL pipeline. TransCanada has said that the pipeline will create 7,000 U.S. manufacturing jobs. Welspun Little Rock employs roughly 300 workers. “Everyone in Congress wants a pipeline like this to create good American jobs,” Congressman Doyle said. “TransCanada has promised us that construction of this pipeline will create 7,000 U.S. manufacturing jobs. If it’s true, that’s great. But I for one want to make sure that we aren’t getting played for suckers. After looking into this issue in some detail, I have concluded that TransCanada has already purchased most, if not all, of the steel for the Keystone XL pipeline from foreign mills. So I think it’s fair to ask where the other 6,700 U.S. manufacturing jobs are coming from.” “This amendment is about truth in advertising,” Congressman Doyle observed. “It is simply asking that before a permit is issued, the applicant must certify their claim and provide documentation that 75% of the steel to be used in the pipeline is sourced from North America. No one in the House should have a problem with making sure the American people haven’t been lied to. That’s all this amendment would do.” Congressman Doyle offered his amendment to H.R. 3408, legislation authorizing drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and off the east and west coasts of the United States. The amendment was defeated on a vote of 193 to 234. ###
02.09.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA) today introduced bipartisan legislation (HR 4004) that directs federal agencies to encourage open public access to federally funded scientific research. “Americans have the right to see the results of research funded with taxpayer dollars,” Congressman Doyle said in introducing the Federal Research Public Access Act. “Yet such research too often gets locked away behind a pay-wall, forcing those who want to learn from it to pay expensive subscription fees for access.” “The Federal Research Public Access Act will encourage broader collaboration among scholars in the scientific community by permitting widespread dissemination of research findings. Promoting greater collaboration will inevitably lead to more innovative research outcomes and more effective solutions in the fields of biomedicine, energy, education, and health care.” The Federal Research Public Access Act, HR 4004, would require federal agencies with an extramural research budget of $100 million or more to make federally-funded research available for free online access by the general public, no later than six months after publication in a peer-reviewed journal. The Federal Research Public Access Act would: • Require federal departments and agencies with an annual extramural research budget of $100 million or more, whether funded totally or partially by a government department or agency, to submit an electronic copy of the final manuscript that has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. • Ensure that the manuscript is preserved in a stable digital repository maintained by that agency or in another suitable repository that permits free public access, interoperability, and long-term preservation. • Require that each taxpayer-funded manuscript be made available to the public online and without cost, no later than six months after the article has been published in a peer-reviewed journal. Original sponsors of the Federal Research Public Access Act are Reps. Kevin Yoder (R-KS) and Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO). Identical legislation, S 2096, is also being introduced in the U.S. Senate today by Sens. John Cornyn (R-TX), Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX). Echoing similar aims, the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) recently issued a Request for Information and collected recommendations on approaches to ensure broad public access to federally-funded scientific research. Congressman Doyle introduced similar legislation in the 111th Congress, and he has been working since 2006 to ensure that taxpayers have access to the research they’ve paid for. Click here to read the Federal Research Public Access Act. Click here to read a section-by-section description of the Federal Research Public Access Act. ###
02.03.2012	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative released the following statement this afternoon in response to the Air Force's announcement that it planned to close the 911th Airlift Wing in Moon Township. "I was concerned to learn that the Air Force has announced plans to close the 911th Air Wing. We strongly believe that the 911th Airlift Wing still has a vital role to play in serving the Air Force's mission. We're very concerned that the data that was used to make this decision was outdated. "I am going to be co-chairing the House Delegation with Congressman Murphy, and along with our US Senators Casey and Toomey we will be requesting a meeting with the Air Force to make sure that they have up to date facts with which to make this decision. We believe that when the facts are clear, the Air Force will realize that the Air Force's mission and the taxpayers' interests are best served by continuing a mission for the 911th Airlift Wkng here at Pittsburgh International Airport."
01.31.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle announced today that the U.S. Department of Transportation is accepting applications for Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery or ‘‘TIGER” Grants for Fiscal Year 2012. These grants, which are competitively awarded, can be used on transportation projects like highways, bridges, public transportation, passenger and freight railroads, and marine ports. “I encourage local governments in southwestern Pennsylvania with pressing transportation needs to consider applying for this round of TIGER grants,” Congressman Doyle said today. “And please note that the deadline for expressing interest in this funding is only three weeks away.” Initial applications must be submitted to DoT by close of business on February 20, 2012. TIGER Grants range in size from $1 million up to $200 million. They may be used for up to 80 percent of the costs of an eligible project. The Redevelopment Authority of Allegheny County recently received a $10 million TIGER grant to build a “fly-over” ramp to improve access to the Carrie Furnaces redevelopment site in the Mon Valley. Click here to read about the TIGER Grant program. Click here for detailed information on how to apply for Fiscal Year 20123 TIGER Grant funding. ###
01.25.2012	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that he had contacted Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius to urge her to require coverage of behavioral treatment for people with Autism Spectrum Disorders in all of the insurance plans that will participate in the health insurance exchanges that will open up across the country in 2014. On December 16, 2011, the HHS Center for Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight issued an “Essential Health Benefits Bulletin” to provide guidance to State agencies working to set up the health insurance exchanges required under the health care reform legislation signed into law by President Obama in 2010. (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148). These health insurance exchanges will open across the country in 2014 to act like supermarkets where individuals, families, and small businesses can shop around for an insurance policy that best meets their needs. This bulletin left the decisions about what health care benefits must be covered by insurance plans competing for customers in these exchanges up to the States that are setting them up. “The evidence and scientific support for behavioral health services coverage for ASD is overwhelming,” Congressman Doyle observed in his letter to Secretary Sebelius. “That’s why I worked hard to ensure that behavioral treatment services like applied behavioral analysis would be covered by all of the insurance plans participating in the new health insurance exchanges.” As a result of Congressman Doyle’s efforts, Section 1302 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, required that the “Essential Health Benefits” required of all plans participating in the health insurance exchanges include “Mental health and substance use disorder services, including behavioral health treatment.” The Essential Health Benefits Bulletin issued by HHS last month left States free to exclude behavioral health for individuals with autism spectrum disorders from the Essential Health Benefits they require insurance policies to cover. Congressman Doyle’s letter to Secretary Sebelius urged HHS to revise its guidance on Essential Health Benefits to require insurance plans participating in any health insurance exchange to cover behavioral health treatment services like applied behavioral analysis for individuals with autism spectrum disorders. “Insurance companies shouldn’t be able to deny any group of patients coverage for medical treatment that has been proven to be both safe and incredibly effective,” Congressman Doyle added. “That’s clearly what’s been happening with behavioral health treatments for people with autism. I will continue to push to ensure that behavioral health treatment services for individuals with autism are required as Essential Health Benefits as of 2014.” Click here to see the letter.
01.05.2012	The Federal Communications Commission released an important report today on the economic impact of low power FM (LPFM) radio stations on full power commercial stations. The report concluded that these community radio stations do not have a significant impact on audience ratings, advertising revenues, or other economic indicators of full power stations. Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) issued the following statement in response: “The results of this study were expected, but I'm glad there are solid numbers on the record now. The study confirmed the widespread belief that LPFMs don’t cause economic harm or interference to other stations. In fact, if you talk to the folks in the regions that already have LPFM stations, they say LPFMs have had a very positive impact. They provide programs that reflect and enrich local cultures. I know the FCC has been working hard to implement my legislation to expand the number of these stations, and I’m looking forward to the upcoming LPFM licensing window so we can have many more of them.” LPFM stations are radio stations that operate at a power of 100 watts or less. Noncommercial LPFM stations offer communities the opportunity to share and enjoy music, news, and other programming created at the local level. In 2000, Congress enacted legislation that required a minimum of four frequency intervals between radio stations on the FM dial. This requirement significantly limited the number of low-power FM radio stations that could be licensed across the country. In 2011, the “Local Community Radio Act” – legislation Congressman Doyle introduced to substantially increase the number of low power FM radio licenses the FCC could issue – was signed into law. The Local Community Radio Act repealed the existing unnecessary minimum separation requirement and allow the FCC to proceed with its original plan to issue new LPFM licenses The Local Community Radio Act also required the FCC to conduct the study released today to determine what, if any, effect the LCRA has had on commercial radio stations. Click here to read the report. ###
12.13.2011	Washington, DC – December 12, 2011 – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) announced that the Carrie Furnace Redevelopment site is the recipient of a $10 million grant through the Department of Transportation’s TIGER program. The project, totaling 168 acres over 5 municipalities, will bring in unprecedented economic growth in the Monongahela River Valley region of Allegheny Country. “I’m thrilled to announce this decision as I have been working with the administration to fund this critical project for some time now,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This project exemplifies innovation and demonstrates a true understanding of the importance of public and private partnerships in the region, both vital criteria for TIGER grants, as demonstrated by the dedicated local and state monies to this project. The construction of such a flyover will allow for unparalleled access to the site, utilizing a holistic approach to address issues pertaining to safety and the utilization of existing infrastructure.” The $10 million dollar award will go towards the construction of a flyover bridge linking the site to the recently rehabilitated Rankin Bridge. The Carrie Furnace Redevelopment site represents a large-scale priority redevelopment project that will not only have significant economic redevelopment impact to the struggling communities of the Mon Valley but will also transform Carrie Furnace into a hub of activity that will connect these communities and allow residents to live, work, invest, play, and learn within the adjacent riverfront and urban areas. Overall, estimates are that the site can accommodate upwards of 1,000 permanent new jobs through the development of a completely LEED-certified flex-office/light industrial park with complete build-out taking between 5 – 7 years.“This grant is great news for Allegheny County and even better news for the communities around the Carrie Furnace site,” said Rich Fitzgerald, County Executive Elect. “Allegheny County has invested a great deal of time, effort and money in this project because of its importance to the Mon Valley. This award allows us to provide full access to the site and opens up even more opportunities for this redevelopment. I am grateful to Congressman Doyle, Senator Casey and all of our federal representatives for their continued support for and advocacy of this project and their understanding of its importance to our region.”“Since Allegheny County purchased the Carrie Furnace site in 2005, we have worked tirelessly with our partners to clean and clear the property and create a sustainable redevelopment plan that would return it to viable commercial, residential and recreational uses," said outgoing Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato. "The last piece of the puzzle was funding to connect the site to the recently renovated Rankin Bridge. Thanks to the hard work of Senator Casey and Congressman Doyle, we now have the final funding to make that connection a reality, and we are on the verge of transforming one of the largest remaining former industrial sites in Allegheny County.” Owned by the Redevelopment Authority of Allegheny County (RAAC), recent work at the site includes the installation of a storm-water line spanning the entire site as well as extending a new waterline to service the property. Previous work completed by RAAC included underground vault excavation and site remediation and sanitary sewer work. According to the 2000 U.S. Census as well as site maps of the region, nine communities will be directly impacted by these projects. These communities total over 375,000 with nearly 23% living below the national poverty line and a median household income of $25,970.44 (national median household income for 1999 – $41,994). Combined, these projects will not only create livable wage jobs for the residents of this area but will allow for smart transportation alternatives through the proposed commuter passageways as well as expanded access to the Port Authority of Allegheny County’s East Busway, which terminates just above the Carrie Furnace site and has a daily ridership of 25,000 area residents per day. ###
12.06.2011	Washington, DC – December 6, 2011 – Congressman Mike Doyle (D-Pa.), a member of the House Communications and Technology Subcommittee, and nine other Members of Congress today sent a letter to the Federal Communications Commission, urging the agency to protect localism and diversity as it conducts the quadrennial review of its media ownership rules. Rep. Doyle and his colleagues emphasized that the Commission’s newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule, local radio-television cross-ownership rule, and local radio and local television ownership rules historically have ensured competition in news gathering, encouraged employment of staff in independent newsrooms, and promoted local programming. “I urge the Federal Communications Commission to protect local ownership of TV stations, radio stations, and newspapers, and to encourage the continued presence of local programming and reporting,” Rep. Doyle said. “These outlets are still a very important part of people’s lives in my district and around the country. Traditional media continues to be the primary source of original news reporting, and I believe strong rules are needed today to support the work of local newsroom staffs.” In 2008, 56 Members of the House of Representatives cosponsored a resolution to express disapproval of FCC rules passed under then-Chairman Kevin Martin. Those rules relaxed the agency’s ban on common ownership of a local newspaper and broadcast outlet in the same market. “We would be equally concerned about a similar weakening of media ownership rules in the Commission’s current review, and urge the Commission again today to uphold important protections for localism and diversity,” the signers of today’s letter said. The letter was signed by House Communications and Technology Subcommittee Ranking Member Anna G. Eshoo (D-CA) and Reps. Jay Inslee (D-WA), Edward J. Markey (D-MA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Maurice D. Hinchey (D-NY), Maxine Waters (D-CA), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Louise Slaughter (D-NY), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). The full text of the letter is below: December 6, 2011 Chairman Julius Genachowski Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 RE: MB Docket No. 09-182, 2010 Quadrennial Review – Review of the Commission’s Broadcast Ownership Rules and Other Rules Adopted Pursuant to Section 202 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 Dear Chairman Genachowski: We thank the Commission for moving forward on the quadrennial review of its media ownership rules. As the Commission reviews its existing media ownership limits, we urge you to protect the public interest by promoting rules that encourage competition, localism, and diversity in all local media markets. Historically, media ownership protections such as the newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership rule, the local radio and local television ownership rules, and the radio-television cross-ownership rule have ensured competition in news gathering among local news outlets, encouraged employment of staff in independent newsrooms and station operations, and promoted the continued presence of local programming. Protecting localism is a critical and longstanding goal of the Federal Communications Commission’s media ownership rules. However, today’s media marketplace reflects a troubling decline in the level of local journalism. Unfortunately, the Internet, while a critical and innovative platform, has not substantially increased competition in, or diversity of, original, local news reporting. For example, a study commissioned by the Commission as part of the 2010 media ownership review found “almost no evidence that the Internet has expanded the number of local news outlets. […] Those sites that do receive an audience are overwhelmingly newspaper and local television station Websites, rather than new and independent sources of local news.” Similarly, the Commission’s own staff report on The Information Needs of Communities indicates that although the Internet may create the appearance of an abundance of voices, this has not necessarily resulted in a greater presence of original, local news content. The report points to several studies conducted in local media markets demonstrating that “the growing number of web outlets relies on a relatively fixed, or declining, pool of original reporting provided by traditional media.” The report notes that some of these traditional media outlets have, indeed, been found to be doing less original reporting than before, while online sources have “chewed over” content from traditional sources using analysis that has been “thinner and not as well researched.” These findings suggest that permitting further consolidation among traditional media outlets could result in a further decline in local media ownership and news production. Importantly, mergers and acquisitions among newspapers and television stations historically have not demonstrably relieved the financial burdens of these outlets. On the other hand, consolidation among newsrooms in some cases has led to layoffs, increased debt held by media companies, and caused a decline in the diversity of viewpoints necessary to sustain a functioning democracy. During this difficult economic time, strong rules are needed to support the work of newsroom staff and the production of local, investigative journalism. In 2008, 56 Members of the House of Representatives cosponsored a resolution expressing disapproval of then-Chairman Kevin Martin’s media ownership rules, which relaxed the agency’s ban on common ownership of a local newspaper and broadcast outlet in the same market. We would be equally concerned about a similar weakening of media ownership rules in the Commission’s current review, and urge the Commission again today to uphold important protections for localism and diversity. We are also concerned about efforts by some media companies to consolidate newsrooms and other operations even as they remain legally separate entities. A lack of strong rules governing such agreements has caused further layoffs, as well as fewer and less diverse sources of independent local journalism. We urge the Commission to examine the impact of these agreements on jobs, diversity and localism in media programming, competition in local advertising, and competition for carriage by subscription television services. As always, thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Click here for a pdf copy of the letter.
12.05.2011	Servicemembers and Eligible Retirees in Southwest PA Saved From 400 Mile Trip to Access Services WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Bob Casey (D-PA) and Pat Toomey (R-PA) and Congressmen Tim Murphy (R-PA), Mike Doyle (D-PA), Bill Shuster (R-PA), Jason Altmire (D-PA) and Mark Critz (D-PA) announced that the long awaited Moon Township Commissary project can move forward without delay. “We’ve been working since the BRAC Commission started to ensure that the eligible veterans and military personnel in southwestern Pennsylvania continue to have decent access to a commissary facility,” Congressman Doyle said. “It’s great that we’ve now cleared this last major hurdle.” “This has been a long, tough fight but our retirees and service members in Southwest Pennsylvania will not need to travel 400 miles to get to the nearest commissary,” Senator Casey said. “The bottom line is that it is now a certainty that Southwestern Pennsylvania will get a newly constructed first-class commissary to serve our first-rate eligible retirees and military community, and I’ll be monitoring the progress very closely to make sure work gets started as soon as possible.” “I strongly support the Defense Department’s decision to establish a new commissary in Southwestern Pennsylvania,” Senator Toomey said. “For many months, my staff and I have been working with other members of Congress and the Defense Department to move the project forward. This long-overdue decision is vital for the welfare of our service members and military retirees in the area. I look forward to working with the Pennsylvania delegation to ensure the new facility is completed in time to maintain continuous service for these great Americans.” “Our new commissary has been a long time coming for the families of the 168,000 veterans, reservists, and active-duty soldiers in our region who have given so much in service to our country,” Congressman Murphy said. “This announcement has been six years in the making, and I applaud the teamwork displayed by the military, civilian community, and elected officials who made this possible. The odds were against us in the beginning, but by working together and fighting for the money needed to build a new facility we are one step closer to breaking ground on the Coraopolis commissary.”"For the past six years, the Pennsylvania delegation has worked in unison to bring this project from the drawing board into reality," Congressman Shuster said. "I am pleased to see that we have passed the final hurdle and we are one great step closer to constructing the commissary in Southwestern Pennsylvania. This project will improve the lives and welfare of countless veterans and military families in our region. Today's news shows that the delegation is unified when it comes to our military families and our veterans in Pennsylvania."“The entire Pennsylvania delegation has been united in our efforts to secure this new commissary for western Pennsylvania,” Congressman Altmire said. “Our servicemen and women deserve the best when they return home. This new, first-class facility will deliver the much-needed services veterans need without forcing them to travel hours out of their way. I look forward to closing out this project with the rest of our delegation and ensuring its timely completion.”“This project has been six years in the making, and it’s finally here,” said Congressman Critz. “Clearing this last procedural hurdle is not only a victory for our military community, but for our veterans and the veterans groups that have fought hard to see this project through.” In 2005, the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) identified the Charles E. Kelly Support Facility (CEKSF) in Oakdale for closure. Closing the facility meant that 168,000 eligible military personnel and veterans lost Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) operations as well as the Commissary, Post Exchange, and Military Clothing Sales Store (MCSS) services that they had come to rely on. Over many years, members of the previous and current delegation took numerous steps to see the project become a reality, including fighting to keep the facility open, securing funds to build a new Commissary, and fighting to get final authorization for the project from the Department of Defense. The delegation remembers the work of Senator Specter and the late Congressman Murtha who were vitally important to the success of the project. The delegation expects the Department of Defense to quickly take action to ensure there is no gap in coverage after the CEKSF commissary closes and the Moon facility opens. Senator Casey also received confirmation earlier this year that the Army and Air Force Exchange Services (AAFES) have committed to construct a Post Exchange, which will include a compliment of exchange services, adjacent to the commissary. With the construction of the commissary and upcoming Post Exchange, these MWR services that were victims of the BRAC process have now been preserved for the military families and eligible retirees for the tri-state region.” ###
11.18.2011	Washington, DC – November 18, 2011 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against H.J.Res.2, a resolution to add a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution, when it was considered by the House of Representatives today. “The debate over raising the debt limit was a watershed moment. After the debt limit fiasco, it’s clear to me that requiring a three-fifths vote to raise the federal debt limit would be disastrous,” Congressman Doyle said afterwards. “This constitutional amendment would substantially increase the likelihood that the federal government will default on the national debt, and that’s most definitely not in our national interest.” “Moreover, I’m convinced that in today’s supercharged partisan environment, it is nearly impossible to get a three-fifths vote for any substantial legislation, no matter how important it is,” Congressman Doyle added. “This amendment would in all likelihood force devastating cuts in essential programs like Social Security and Medicare.” “Consequently, I voted against this ill-advised amendment to the Constitution because I believe it could hamstring the federal government’s ability to respond to future major crises and make major cuts in programs millions of Americans depend upon.” If approved by Congress and ratified by the States, this balanced budget amendment would: - Require a 3/5 vote to raise the debt ceiling. This supermajority requirement would make it much more likely that the United States would default on its obligations and cripple the global economy. - Make it difficult for the United States to respond to a crisis. H.J.Res. 2 requires specific legislation and a majority vote to ‘run a deficit’ in a time of war, which would slow down the U.S. response time in a military crisis. H.J.Res. 2 would require a 3/5 vote to ‘run a deficit’ in order to respond to a domestic crisis, making it nearly impossible to adequately address an economic crisis or natural disaster in a timely manner. - Take spending decisions out of the hands of the legislative branch. Enforcement of balancing the budget could fall to federal judges, who could then decide to raise taxes or cut spending to bring the budget into ‘balance.’ A top economic forecasting firm, Macroeconomic Advisers LLC, has reported that if a Balanced Budget Amendment were enforced through spending cuts in FY 2012, it would throw 15 million more people out of work, double the unemployment rate from 9 percent to 18 percent, and cause the economy to shrink by about 17 percent instead of growing by 2 percent. While 261 Representatives voted in favor of the balanced budget amendment, supporters fell short of the two-thirds (290) vote required for its approval. Congressman Doyle was one of 165 Members of Congress who voted against approving this amendment and sending it to the states for ratification. Click here to read the text of H.J.Res. 2. Click here to read an analysis of the impact of this balanced budget amendment on Social Security, Medicare, and other federal programs. ###
11.02.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) took part in a teleconference this morning with Families USA Executive Director Ron Pollack and the Pennsylvania Health Access Network’s Athena Ford to announce the release of a new report on the impact that the Affordable Care Act will have on residents of Pennsylvania. The report, entitled “The Bottom Line: How the Affordable Care Act Affects Pennsylvania", concluded that in the year 2019, after the new health care reform law is fully phased in, households with incomes of less than $100,000 will see their health care costs reduced by $2,370 as a result of the Affordable Care Act – and that they will see comparable savings in subsequent years. Highlights of Congressman Doyle’s remarks from the teleconference follow: “I’m pleased to join you today, and I want to thank Families USA for crunching the numbers and issuing this illuminating report. I think it provides some much-needed information to Pennsylvanians as they try to make sense of a debate that’s been characterized by more heat than light. “These days, millions of Americans are worried about losing their jobs, their homes, and their retirement saving. They shouldn’t also have to worry about being able to afford the health care they need. "More than 30 million Americans are currently uninsured. Others can’t purchase health insurance at any price due to health status or pre-existing conditions. Something like half of all bankruptcies involve high medical bills. And of course, the cost of health care and health insurance has been rising dramatically for many years. That’s why Congress enacted landmark health insurance reform in 2010. “The Affordable Care Act signed into law last year has been attacked mercilessly – and more or less fact-lessly – since it was introduced two years ago. That’s why it’s especially helpful for the public to have access to reports like “The Bottom Line: How the Affordable Care Act Affects Pennsylvania." “This report concludes that the Affordable Care Act, when it’s fully phased in after 2014, will slow the skyrocketing cost of health insurance, save consumers money, guarantee that nearly all Americans have access to high-quality affordable health insurance regardless of health status or pre-existing condition, and improve the quality of health care Americans receive. “The great thing about this report is that it puts the impact that the ACA will have on typical families in dollars-and-cents terms that will help them evaluate health care reform for themselves. I think most folks know that the Affordable Care Act will result in affordable health insurance coverage for the roughly 30 million households who are currently unable to purchase it. What a lot of people may not know is that the Affordable Care Act will benefit most households that already have health insurance as well. To its credit, this report makes that clear. “I want to reinforce one of the points made in the report. The report rightly points out that the vast majority of households in Pennsylvania will benefit substantially from the Affordable Care Act in terms of lower premiums, co-pays, and deductibles. That’s an important piece of information that Americans need to know, but I don’t want anyone to lose sight of the report’s findings on the benefits in the Affordable Care Act that don’t have a dollar figure – primarily the patient protections in the health care reform law like no denial or higher premiums for customers with pre-existing conditions, no annual or lifetime limits on benefit pay-outs, limits on annual out-of-pocket costs, and the phase-out of the Medicare Part D “Donut Hole.” These provisions can be worth tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars to the unfortunate households dealing with serious illnesses. These folks have already drawn a short straw through no fault of their own. They’re often stuck fighting a life-threatening condition. They shouldn’t have to worry about bankruptcy and financial ruin at the same time. “Simply put, the Affordable Care Act, once it’s fully phased in, will improve Americans’ health, financial condition, and peace of mind, contrary to all the lies and misinformation out there. That’s why I voted for it. And I’m pleased to be here with Ron Pollack and Athena Ford today to announce the release of this report that helps set the record straight.” The Affordable Care Act is already improving many Pennsylvanians’ lives: Insurance companies can no longer deny coverage to the 700,000 Pennsylvania children with pre-existing conditions. 7 million Pennsylvanians with private insurance no longer have to worry about lifetime limits on coverage. The 600,000 Pennsylvanians who buy coverage in the individual market can’t have their coverage rescinded do to a paperwork mistake. 30,000 Pennsylvanians under the age of 26 can now get coverage under their parents’ plans. The 2.3 million seniors in Pennsylvania no longer have co-payments or deductibles for preventive services like mammograms and colonoscopies or annual wellness visits. A quarter of a million Pennsylvania seniors who hit the Medicare Part D donut hole last year received $250 tax-free rebates. This year, seniors who hit the donut hole will get a 50 percent discount on brand name prescription drugs, and the donut hole will be phased out and completely closed by 2020. Over 400 employers in Pennsylvania have enrolled in the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program. Pennsylvania has also received over $25 million to train additional health care workers. And that’s just so far. The main provisions of the Affordable Care Act – increasing competition in the private health insurance market – won’t kick in until 2014. Click here to read the complete report: “The Bottom Line: How the Affordable Care Act Affects Pennsylvania" ###
10.14.2011	I've been saying for some time that progressives need to get off the sidelines and get back into the game. For the last year or so, conservatives have set the national agenda - pushing deficit-reduction at the expense of job-creation and economic recovery. Now it looks like Americans are starting to take action to reclaim our country from the Wall Street bankers who caused the current crisis - and who continue to prosper, in marked contrast to the vast majority of Americans. I have been impressed by the enthusiasm and engagement of citizens all across America, and I support their widespread opposition to government by the top one percent for the top one percent. For too long, the vast majority of Americans - the other 99 percent of us - have suffered the most from the subprime mortgage mess, the collapse of the housing market, the financial crisis, and the economy-wide recession caused by Wall Street and the big banks. Millions of Americans are out of work. Millions have lost their homes, are in foreclosure, or have mortgages that are underwater. Millions of hard-working Americans have lost much of their retirement savings and will have to keep working well into their 60s or 70s. Poverty, unemployment, and income-inequality are the highest they've been in decades. Programs that help the poor, the unemployed, and the middle class are being cut at all levels of government - and Republicans in Congress are talking about balancing the budget by "reforming" essential entitlement programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. At the same time, the Wall Street banks that caused our economic difficulties got bailed out with taxpayer money - and they're making billion-dollar profits again. Taxes on corporations and the wealthy are at near-record lows. It seems pretty clear to me that all of the suffering and sacrifice of the last 5 years has fallen on the middle class and the poor - and I'm angry that wealthy Americans aren't taking on their fair share of the cost of dealing with this crisis and getting our economy back on track. I strongly believe that all Americans should share in the sacrifice needed to create new jobs and put our economy on the path to recovery - including the top 1 percent, who have been hurt the least in the current economic crisis and who are the most able to bear the burden of additional sacrifice. I believe it's time for Americans to step up and take a stand against unfair policies that enrich the top 1 percent while crushing the bottom 99 percent. I believe action is needed to preserve opportunity and ensure that the American Dream remains within everyone's reach. I don't support violent or destructive protests, but I want all the patriotic Americans who exercise their rights to freely assemble, Occupy Wall Street, and peacefully protest injustice to know that I support you wholeheartedly. I will be working in Congress to ensure that Congress starts addressing the needs of the "99 percent" and asking the wealthiest "1 percent" to do their share.
10.04.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – On Friday, September 30, President Obama signed H.R. 2005, “The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act,” into law (Public Law 112-32). This legislation, which Congressman Doyle (PA-14) co-authored with Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04), renews the nation’s programs for autism early detection, surveillance, research, education, awareness and treatment. “I am exceptionally pleased that we were able to push this bill through Congress before the September 30th deadline,” Congressman Doyle said after the President signed the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act. “This only happened because of the hard work of many people and organizations both inside and outside of Congress. “I want to thank the Autism Society, Autism Speaks, the Association of University Centers on Disabilities, and all of the folks across the country who contacted their legislators in support of the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act. In the end, the families telling their personal stories have had the most impact in securing Congressional support for federal autism programs. “I also want to thank the many advocates for the autism community in Congress – most notably my co-chair Chris Smith and the bill’s Senate sponsors Bob Menendez and Mike Enzi – for never giving up and continuing to work for passage of the bill until the last minute even when many observers thought we would fall short.” The Combating Autism Act of 2006, which was approved five years ago, provided funding for research related to autism spectrum disorder, early identification of autism, and promoting early intervention. The Combating Autism Act has made a huge difference in the lives of thousands of autistic Americans and their families. There is still much to learn about the risk factors and causes of this group of conditions. The Combating Autism Act was scheduled to expire on September 30. The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act reauthorizes the Combating Autism Act programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) for an additional three years, through September 30, 2014. Representatives Smith and Doyle are co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE). CARE has consistently worked to increase federal support for autism initiatives, including autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the Health Resources and Services Administration. “Now that we’ve succeeded in reauthorizing the Combating Autism Act, the Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education will be working to enact legislation to provide more services to individuals with autism spectrum disorders – especially adults,” Congressman Doyle added. “Given the current debates over federal budget deficits, it’s going to be a tough up-hill struggle to secure the funding necessary to provide any new services to families living with autism spectrum disorders, but we are going to keep working as hard as we can, and I am optimistic that we will succeed.” H.R. 2007, “The Autism Spectrum Disorders Services Act,” would broaden the existing Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee by expanding public representation and by making services to individuals with autism a major focus. It would also establish a planning and demonstration grant program for services to children, transitioning youth, adults, and individuals of any age who may be at risk of injury, authorize grants for protection and advocacy systems, and create a national training initiative to better equip teachers and autism services providers. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that one out of every 110 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. Currently, approximately 1.5 million individuals in the U.S. are on the autism spectrum. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. Click here to read the text of The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act. ###
09.21.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 2005, “The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act,” a bipartisan bill authored by Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04) and Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-14). This measure would renew the nation’s programs for autism early detection, surveillance, research, education, awareness and treatment. “I’m here today with my friend and co-chair of the Autism Caucus Congressman Smith to say how pleased we are that the House passed the Combating Autism Reauthorization Act yesterday on a voice vote,” Doyle said. “Over a million individuals are living with Autism Spectrum Disorders, and when you add in their families and caretakers, millions of Americans are affected by ASD." "The Combating Autism Act, which was approved five years ago, provided funding for research related to autism spectrum disorder, early identification of autism, and promoting early intervention," Congressman Doyle added. "The Combating Autism Act has made a huge difference in the lives of thousands of autistic Americans and their families. And while we have made important progress in research on autism within the past few years, much remains to learn about the risk factors and causes of this group of conditions. Consequently, it’s critical that Congress reauthorize the Combating Autism Act.” “Getting the legislation through the House was the first critical step and I am grateful that both Speaker Boehner and Majority Leader Cantor support the bill and the work that has been done at the federal level to help families with autism,” said Smith, whose own state of New Jersey is believed to have the highest rate of autism in the country. “I have spoken to some on the Senate side who have raised concerns and I am optimistic that these critical programs will be reauthorized and advanced.” The new legislation reauthorizes the Combating Autism Act (CAA) of 2006, which expires at the end of this month. The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act would authorize the CAA programs NIH, CDC, and HRSA for an additional three years, through September 30, 2014. The bill passed unanimously in a voice vote, and must now be considered by the Senate. “With the Combating Autism Act authorization expiring next week, it is essential that the Senate act this week to pass legislation to reauthorize the Combating Autism Act – and I encourage my Senate colleagues to do so,” Congressman Doyle added. CARE has consistently worked to increase federal support for autism initiatives, including autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the National Institutes of Health and the Health Resources and Services Administration. Smith and Doyle are co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE). “As a result of increased awareness of the public, of educators, and of health care professionals, the median age for diagnosis of autism – which currently is about 4.5 years—appears to be on the decline,” Smith said. “However, it is important to continue our efforts, as there is still on average a 2 year time gap from developmental concerns to actual diagnosis, research has demonstrated the positive impact of implementing behavioral intervention before age 3, and Applied Behavioral Analysis has shown significant improvement for children as young as 18 months." “I want to thank my friend and Autism Caucus co-chair, Congressman Mike Doyle, for his work in developing and supporting this legislation,” Smith said. In January 2011, a report required by the CAA, cosponsored by Smith and Doyle, described federal action undertaken since enactment of the CAA –mostly in the areas of research and services. The report describes autism-related research and service activities carried out by the federal government since enactment of the Combating Autism Act four years ago. It was released by the Dept. of Health and Human Services and the NIH. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that one out of every 110 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. Currently, approximately 1.5 million individuals in the U.S. are on the autism spectrum. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. Click here to read the text of H.R. 2005, The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act. ###
08.01.2011	U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against S. 365, legislation to raise the federal debt limit, cut government spending by nearly $1 trillion, and link a future increase in the debt limit to either passage of a balanced budget amendment or the enactment of an additional $1.2 trillion in cuts. He released the following statement after the bill was passed by the House of Representatives by a vote of 269 to 161. I voted against S. 365 because I believe it will kill jobs and choke off economic growth while making life harder for the Americans who are struggling the most. I believe the federal government’s skyrocketing national debt is a problem the United States must fix – and that it will require substantial sacrifice for us to do so – but I strongly oppose the approach taken in this bill, which I believe to be both counterproductive and unjust. I recognize that we need to cut spending as part of the solution. That’s why I voted last week for Senator Reid’s plan to cut $2 trillion in spending over the next ten years. But the Republican cuts-only approach won’t stop the growth in the national debt, it won’t grow the economy, and it won’t create jobs. In fact, spending cuts in the middle of an economic crisis slow the economy down and choke off job growth – as recent economic figures for the second quarter have shown. Unless we grow the economy, spending cuts won’t get the deficit under control. That’s why I believe that Congress must enact a more comprehensive approach that includes tax reform along with spending cuts. The other reason I opposed the debt limit bill was my belief that getting deficits and the debt under control should be accomplished with shared sacrifice, and not by dumping all of the burden on the most vulnerable members of our society. So, for example, this bill doesn’t ask profitable companies and the wealthiest Americans to share the sacrifice through higher taxes. On the other hand, it makes cuts in student loan programs and eliminates the firewall for defense after only two years. That’s not my idea of shared sacrifice. I voted twice to raise the debt – once for a clean debt limit increase with no strings attached, and once for the Reid plan, which would have raised the debt limit and cut $2 trillion in spending. I am deeply pleased that, in the end, Congress didn’t allow our government to default on its obligations, but I couldn’t support a bill that I believe will do real, substantial damage to our economy, deny essential aid to struggling households, and slow or stop the creation of American jobs. ###
07.29.2011	A number of individuals have suggested that we really don’t have to raise the national debt – and that we should pay out only what we currently take in. In the abstract, that sounds reasonable and appealing. A balanced federal budget is certainly a good long-term goal. But as we get closer to the August 2nd deadline for raising the legal limit on the federal government’s authority to borrow money, I thought you might be interested in seeing the specific choices the government faces if the debt limit isn’t increased. As of August 2nd, the federal government will have next to no cash on hand. Over the course of the month, the government will take in $172 billion in taxes and other receipts – while it’s obligated to pay out $306 billion. If the government can’t borrow more money, it will not be able to pay all of its bills. So what kind of choices should the government make if we can’t pay all of our bills? Which bills should we pay? Here is a list of the specific amounts the federal government owes over the next month, from largest to smallest. (a day-by-day breakdown of the amount of cash received and spent, along with other information about the debt limit crisis, is available here). Payments due August 3 - 31, 2011 Obligation $306,700,000,000 Running Total Medicare & Medicaid $50,000,000,000 $50,000,000,000 Social Security $49,200,000,000 $99,200,000,000 Defense Dept Vendors $31,700,000,000 $130,900,000,000 Interest on Debt $29,000,000,000 $159,900,000,000 Federal Employees $14,200,000,000 $174,100,000,000 Unemployment Ins. $12,800,000,000 $186,900,000,000 College Pell Grants $10,400,000,000 $197,300,000,000 Health?Human Services $8,100,000,000 $205,400,000,000 Food & Nutrition $6,700,000,000 $212,100,000,000 Dept of Education other $6,200,000,000 $218,300,000,000 Federal Highway Admin $4,300,000,000 $222,600,000,000 Housing Assistance $3,900,000,000 $226,500,000,000 IRS Refunds $3,900,000,000 $230,400,000,000 Education grants to states $3,600,000,000 $234,000,000,000 Dept of Energy research $3,500,000,000 $237,500,000,000 Defense Dept Military Pay $2,900,000,000 $240,400,000,000 Veterans Benefits $2,900,000,000 $243,300,000,000 TANF $2,600,000,000 $245,900,000,000 Other Housing Programs $1,900,000,000 $247,800,000,000 Dept of Justice $1,400,000,000 $249,200,000,000 Dept of Labor $1,300,000,000 $250,500,000,000 Federal Transit Admin $1,300,000,000 $251,800,000,000 Dept of Interior $1,200,000,000 $253,000,000,000 EPA $900,000,000 $253,900,000,000 Public Housing $900,000,000 $254,800,000,000 Center Disease Control $500,000,000 $255,300,000,000 Small Business Admin $300,000,000 $255,600,000,000 All Other Federal Spending $51,100,000,000 $306,700,000,000 As you can see from this example, the government would have enough money to pay Social Security. Medicare, and Medicaid payments, defense contracts, and interest on the debt in August before its revenues were more or less exhausted. If you want to explore the impact of different payment priorities, you can do it at the following web sites: Bloomberg Government's Debt-Limit Bubble tool PBS NewsHour's Daily U.S. Government Income and Expenditures tool The Washington Post's You choose: who gets paid (and who doesn’t) tool While many choices are possible, the bottom line is that the federal government would receive enough money to pay a little over half its bills, forcing it to default on commitments it has already made to pay an additional $134 billion in August. The problem doesn’t end on September 1st.. Over the course of the next year, Congress would take in only enough money to pay about 60 percent of its obligations. In my opinion, this simple math exercise makes raising the debt limit a no-brainer. The federal government can’t make all of the payments it’s already committed to making unless the debt ceiling is raised. While Congress must get our deficits and the national debt under control, there’s no way we can achieve that goal this month. The only alternative to raising the debt ceiling is defaulting on some of the U.S. government’s financial obligations. Defaulting on the national debt would hurt every American family, devastate our economy and raise the cost of running the federal government going forward. That’s why I support raising the debt limit immediately without any strings attached and then working together in a bipartisan manner to find the least harmful spending cuts and tax increases necessary to bring the federal budget into balance.
07.28.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) vehemently condemned H.R. 2584, legislation currently before the House that would gut federal environmental protection programs and put human health and entire species’ survival at risk. “This bill constitutes a mindless all-out assault on our nation’s health and environment,” Congressman Doyle said today. “It would effectively prevent the EPA from enforcing popular environmental laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. This is not what the American people want.” “House Republicans have been taking pot-shots at the EPA all year,” Congressman Doyle added, “but now it’s apparently open season on any federal policy that protects public health and preserves the environment.” “I grew up in Pittsburgh,” Congressman Doyle said. “I remember what the pollution was like before Congress passed the landmark environmental laws of the late ‘60s and early ‘70s. Trust me – we don’t want to turn back the clock on environmental protection.” H.R. 2584 would set funding levels for the Department of the Interior and other related agencies for 2012, in many cases cutting spending for them dramatically. This bill would, for example, cut EPA’s budget by a third, effectively hamstringing the EPA’s ability to enforce existing environmental protection laws like the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. Similarly, this bill would cut the US Fish and Wildlife Service’s budget by 30 percent and substantially reduce the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s budget. In addition, the bill would cut the Land and Water Conservation Fund by 80 percent and provide absolutely no funding for listing new endangered species. H.R. 2584 would, however, restore $55 million in oil and gas industry subsidies. “This bill would even allow mining in the Grand Canyon,” Doyle noted. “Maybe we should call this bill the ‘Leave No Wild Behind’ Act.” “Our nation’s environmental laws may not be perfect, but by all objective measures they’ve done a tremendous amount of good,” Doyle observed. “What’s more, the economic cost to our economy has consistently ended up being substantially lower than the doomsday predictions provided by industry groups every time a new environmental law or regulation has been proposed. The dirty little secret Republicans don’t want you to know is that there’s not always a trade-off between jobs and the environment.” H.R. 2584 also includes many so-called “policy riders” – changes in law that have little or nothing to do with funding levels for the agencies covered by the bill. For example, H.R. 2584 would: prevent EPA from protecting our drinking water supplies from waste dumping and oil spills prevent federal agencies from protecting streams from surface mining pollution strip the EPA of its authority to prevent stormwater runoff and pesticides from contaminating the drinking water sources for over 100 million Americans limit EPA’s authority to set adequate safeguards for coal ash, which contains hazardous chemicals like arsenic and lead prohibit the US Fish and Wildlife Service from listing any new threatened or endangered species or designating critical habitat for currently listed species open the Grand Canyon to foreign mining companies prevent EPA from setting vehicle efficiency standards after 2017, and block California and all other states from setting clean car standards allow cement plants to emit unlimited toxic air pollutants like mercury, lead, and arsenic prevent the EPA from regulating airborne particulate matter, which exacerbates life-threatening health problems and causes or contributes to thousands of premature deaths each year Prevent the EPA from issuing Mercury and Air Toxics Rule and the Cross-State Air Pollution Rules, leaving communities inadequately protected from dangerous air pollution from coal-fired power plants and other sources ban EPA from regulating greenhouse gas emissions “It’d be nearly impossible to put together a bill that would be worse for the environment than H.R. 2584,” Congressman Doyle said. “There’s no way I would ever vote for an abomination like this, and I will fight to prevent these provisions from being enacted into law.” ###
07.22.2011	The United States will default on its national debt on August 2nd unless Congress raises the limit on the amount of money the federal government can borrow. It would be hard to underestimate the consequences we would all face if the federal government defaults on the national debt -- higher interest rates, falling home values, and the decimation of people's retirement savings, for starters, and possibly a world-wide economic crisis that dwarfs the one we're still trying to recover from. Click here to read more about the national debt, the debt limit, the consequences of defaulting on the national debt, and the choices we face.
07.19.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against HR 2560, the “Cut, Cap, and Balance Act,” when it was considered by the House of Representatives today. “This legislative monstrosity would undermine decades of government efforts to grow the middle class and provide a decent safety net for poor, elderly, and disabled Americans,” Congressman Doyle observed after the vote. “Given the fact that the number of seniors on Social Security and Medicare is expected to double in the coming years, capping federal spending at the levels set in H.R. 2560 would make cuts in Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid inevitable.” “What’s more, the bill would effectively prevent Congress from raising any revenues to help pay for those essential programs,” Congressman Doyle added. “I’m never going to vote for a bill that makes it easier to cut Grandma’s Medicare than to raise Rupert Murdoch’s taxes.” H.R. 2560 would cut federal spending by $111 billion in Fiscal Year 2012, which starts on October 1st. It would also require the federal government to reduce its overall spending from 24 percent of national economic activity to 19.9 percent over the next ten years. Finally, H.R. 2560 would prohibit any increase in the federal government’s debt limit until both bodies of Congress approved and sent to the States a Constitutional Amendment which, if ratified, would cap federal spending at 18 percent of GDP and require a 2/3 majority of both the House and Senate in order to raise taxes, which are currently close to record lows. “This bill is a Trojan Horse for the Tea Party’s “drown the federal government in a bath tub” agenda,” Congressman Doyle said. “I can understand why House Republicans would want to call this atrocity a “balanced budget” bill rather than a bill to eliminate federal safety net programs, but this bill’s even worse than the Ryan budget that House Republicans approved this spring.” HR 2560 was approved in the House by a vote of 234 to 190. H.R. 2560 is not expected to be approved by the Senate, and President Obama has promised to veto it if the Senate were to pass it. “The only good thing about this transparent effort to appease the Republicans’ Tea Party wing is the fact that it stands no chance of becoming law. Congressional Republicans have to get serious about raising the debt limit and negotiating a deficit reduction both sides can agree to,” Congressman Doyle said. “The first step is for them to stop grandstanding and pandering to their base with ridiculous legislation that’s going nowhere – like H.R. 2560.” Click here to read the text of H.R. 2560. Click here to read a House Budget Committee summary of HR 2560. Click here to read about the devastating impact this bill would have on our economy. Click here to read how HR 2560 would hurt middle-class households. ###
07.11.2011	Washington, DC – Today the U.S. House of Representatives debated H.R. 2417, legislation to repeal federal energy-efficiency standards for light bulbs that were enacted in 2007 with bipartisan support. U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) spoke in opposition to this bill on the House Floor this evening. Congressman Doyle also wrote an op-ed piece in today’s edition of The Hill newspaper arguing for the bill’s defeat. “The House will be voting on the “BULB Act” a bill to repeal the bipartisan energy efficiency standards that have helped create jobs here in America and save energy and money for families,” Congressman Doyle wrote in his op-ed. “This is as common sense as it gets, and its hard to believe that we’re fighting over it. I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing this bill.” H.R. 2417, the inaccurately named “Better Use of Light Bulbs Act” or “BULB Act,” would repeal the energy-efficiency standards for light bulbs, incandescent lamps, and reflector lamps that were enacted in the bipartisan Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, which was signed into law by President Bush (Public Law 110-140). The supporters of H.R. 2417 claim that current federal lighting standards ban incandescent light bulbs at the end of this year. They are simply incorrect. The Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 did not ban incandescent light bulbs. These standards simply require new screw-in light bulbs to use less energy to produce a given amount of light. For example, common household light bulbs will be required to use at least 27 percent less energy by 2014 – and to use 70 percent less energy than today’s standard incandescent bulbs by 2020. Many compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) and Light Emitting Diodes (LEDs) meet these requirements already, and light bulb companies believe they will be able to produce incandescent bulbs that can meet those targets as well. That’s why light bulb manufacturers oppose repeal of the energy-efficiency standards for light bulbs. Repealing the current federal energy-efficiency standards for light bulbs would have many unfortunate consequences, including hurting manufacturers that have already made investments in producing these new bulbs, eliminating consumer savings of up to $100 per household annually, and halting the creation of new jobs producing these more efficient bulbs here in the United States. “These newly efficient incandescent light bulbs are being made in my home state of Pennsylvania,” Congressman Doyle wrote in his op-ed. “Innovation in energy efficiency has brought jobs to this country at a time when we need it the most – and it can bring more jobs, but not if we roll back the clock on energy-efficiency.” Click here to see Congressman Doyle’s Floor Statement on the BULB Act. Click here to read Congressman Doyle's op-ed opposing the BULB Act. Click here for the text of H.R. 2417, the "Better Use of Light Bulbs" Act. Click here to read a letter opposing H.R. 2417 from the United Steel Workers Union. Click here to read a memo from the Natural Resources Defense Council explaining how repeal of the lighting efficiency standard would hurt consumers. ###
07.07.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle issued the following statement in response to a hearing held by the House Education and the Workforce Committee earlier today. “I strongly support the National Labor Relations Board’s proposal to modernize and streamline its procedures for conducting workplace votes about union representation, and I am very concerned that Republicans in Congress are intent on killing these common-sense reforms. “On June 21, the National Labor Relations Board released a proposal to modernize the process used to conduct employee votes on whether to adopt union representation. This proposal was intended to eliminate the many lengthy delays that often accompany contested elections – especially frivolous delays instigated by unscrupulous employers intent on defeating efforts to unionize. According to the House Committee on Education and the Workforce, workers wait an average of 124 days to vote in contested elections, and some votes have been delayed for over 13 years. “The existing rules were put into place decades ago, when typewriters, carbon paper, and snail mail limited the pace at which election procedures could move forward. Moreover, in the years since then, there have been so many examples of employers exploiting loopholes in the rules to delay elections that the need for reform is clear. "The National Labor Relations Board proposal includes commonsense reforms like allowing electronic communication and filing of documents, as well as consolidating legal challenges and appeals and deferring NLRB review of those issues until after the election. “Democracy doesn’t just belong in politics. All American workers deserve a fair and honest vote on whether they want to be represented by a union, and employers shouldn’t have the ability to manipulate the election process, delay the vote indefinitely, and intimidate or threaten employees for an extended period of time prior to that vote. Adoption of these proposed reforms would help level the playing field and bring us significantly closer to those goals. "Opposition to the NLRB’s election reform proposal strikes me as nothing more than another duplicitous attack on worker rights, and I question the motivation of anyone who criticizes it.” ###
07.06.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA), Member of the House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, urged Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski on Thursday, June 30, to bring the Commission’s special access reform proceeding to a vote. In a letter to Chairman Genachowski, Doyle argued that special access reform is needed in order to preserve competition in the wireline and wireless markets – especially following the substantial consolidation among wireline carriers in recent decades. “As the market for wireless services and devices continues to develop, special access becomes even more relevant in determining a level playing field amongst competing providers. The Commission has compiled substantial amounts of data since it began its rulemaking process in 2005. It is time for the agency to develop a detailed timeline to bring this proceeding to a vote.” The full text of the letter is below. June 30, 2011 Chairman Julius Genachowski Federal Communications Commission 445 112th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 RE: Special Access Proceeding – MB Docket No. 05-25 Dear Chairman Genachowski: In light of the recent release of the Commission’s 15th annual mobile wireless competition report, I write to urge the Commission to take immediate, substantive steps to reform the market for “special access” services. Given the rapid increase in consumer use of high-bandwidth mobile wireless services, I am concerned that the Commission’s failure to address the special access market is leading to unequal and deteriorating competition among providers in both the wireline and wireless markets. Recent decades have seen substantial consolidation among wireline carriers. The special access market is now dominated by three telephone companies, two of which have the highest market shares for mobile wireless services as well. These incumbent carriers that hold such dominant positions in the wireline and wireless markets have significant advantages over their wireline competitors and independent wireless providers, due to the incumbents’ ownership of physical infrastructure. These incumbents have been permitted by lack of regulation to charge high prices and impose anticompetitive terms and conditions for special access services, thereby depressing competition, hindering innovation, and preventing economic development. Special access is essential to large parts of the economy – a crucial ingredient for adequate cell phone service, functioning ATMs, working credit card machines, and many other forms of communication. As the Commission examines competition in the wireless market and conducts its review of the proposed merger between AT&T and T-Mobile USA, special access is especially relevant. An unregulated special access market without effective competitive offerings places wireless providers without wireline infrastructure holdings at an especially strong competitive disadvantage, allowing the vertically integrated incumbents to dominate the wireless service and device marketplaces as well. Indeed, special access should be termed “critical access.” The Commission initiated its rulemaking process on special access in 2005. Despite having compiled an extensive record of data and public comments since that time, the agency’s promise to address competition in the special access market remains unfulfilled. Given this delay, I respectfully request that you provide me with a detailed timeline to bring this proceeding to a vote before the Commission. Your prompt attention to this matter is appreciated. I look forward to hearing from you before Congress recesses in August. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress ###
06.21.2011	Washington, DC - U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Chris Smith (NJ-4) today introduced H.R. 2256, the Pet Safety and Protection Act, legislation to protect companion animals from illegal use in laboratory experiments. The Pet Safety and Protection Act would prohibit “Class B” animal dealers from selling dogs and cats to researchers."Class B dealers have racked up an atrocious record of illegal activity and cruelty to animals," Congressman Doyle said today. "Allowing this failed program to continue is simply unacceptable. That's why we're re-introducing the Pet Safety and Protection Act -- to shut down the Class B dealer disaster once and for all."“Class B dealers have routinely failed to meet basic Animal Welfare Act Standards and there is no sign they will ever improve," remarked Congressman Smith. "Reputable research institutes do not use Class B dealers because of the serious problems associated with them and their troubled past. Closing them down once and for all will give people greater confidence in our research programs and go a long way toward reducing animal cruelty."Currently, two types of animal dealers are licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) – Class A or “purpose-bred” dealers and Class B or “random source” dealers. Class A dealers are highly regulated businesses that raise their own animals. Class B dealers, in contrast, routinely buy dogs and cats from a vast network of suppliers with murky backgrounds. Many of these suppliers obtain dogs and cats they sell to Class B dealers by stealing them – or by responding to “free to good home” advertisements and posing as pet owners willing to provide a good home to a family pet. Class B dealers pay suppliers for each animal, creating enough of a financial incentive that a number of individuals steal pet dogs and cats from owners’ properties and falsify records to keep their true origins unknown. In addition, some Class B dealers have unofficial relationships with pounds, shelters, or “humane societies” to buy surplus animals. Although the law currently requires any stray animal to be held for at least 5 days at such facilities, it does not prevent pets from being kept out of sight, or transported to an out-of-state location for this time period, making it impossible for concerned pet owners to locate a beloved pet. The U.S. Department of Agriculture spends hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars each year unsuccessfully trying to regulate Class B dealers and has acknowledged that it can't guarantee that dogs and cats are not being illegally acquired for use in experimental procedures. Five of the eight dealers currently in operation are under investigation by the USDA, with one of them having recently been indicted on a number of federal charges, including identity theft. Another one who has been under investigation turned in his license though the case against him is still pending, and a third is halfway through a five-year suspension.The 2006 HBO documentary “Dealing Dogs” illustrated the illegal and inhumane trade in stray animals and family pets, as well as the neglect and outright cruelty with which some Class B dealers treat these animals. This film contains disturbing video footage collected by an undercover investigator who worked in several Class B dealers’ facilities. Among the abuses documented in this film are overcrowded cages, rotten food, food contaminated with feces, frozen drinking water, dogs with serious untreated injuries and diseases, and live dogs caged with the carcasses of dead dogs. In addition, this investigation documented the beating, strangulation, and shooting of dogs by Class B dealers.Congressman Doyle has introduced similar legislation for a number of years. In previous Congresses, this bill was derailed by concerns that it might prevent or delay life-saving biomedical research. Consequently, the 110th Congress directed the National Academies to examine the issue and determine whether the Class B dealer system should be continued. In May of 2009, the National Academies released its report on the Class B dealer system. The National Academies concluded that:“Although random source dogs and cats represent a very small percentage of animals used in biomedical research, this small number is not commensurate with their potential value, and it is desirable to assure continued access to animals with random source qualities. This access can be accomplished with existing alternative mechanisms other than Class B dealers and can be assured with additional effort. The Committee thus determined that Class B dealers are not necessary for supplying dogs and cats for NIH-funded research.” “I believe that the National Academies study puts to rest any remaining concerns about the desirability of eliminating the Class B dealer system,” Congressman Doyle stated. “If NIH doesn’t need Class B dealers, it’s highly unlikely any other legitimate researcher does. It’s past time for Congress to protect American families and their companion animals and pass this bill.”More information about the documentary “Dealing Dogs” can be found here and here.
06.15.2011	Washington, DC – June 14, 2011 – Today Congressman Mike Doyle (D-Pennsylvania) released a report detailing the impact that ending the Medicare program and replacing with private insurance paid for in part with federal vouchers would have on future retirees in southwestern Pennsylvania. “This study highlights just what a bad deal the House Republicans’ budget is for people in Pittsburgh and Southwestern Pennsylvania,” Congressman Doyle observed in releasing this study. “The 2012 federal budget that House Republicans approved in April would shift trillions of dollars in health care costs from the federal government onto tomorrow’s senior citizens and the disabled, many of whom are on fixed incomes. With Southwestern Pennsylvania having an older population than most of the country, a disproportionate share of that burden would fall on our region.” The budget passed by the House of Representatives in April would dismantle Medicare and its guarantee of health insurance coverage and a wide range of benefits — and replace it with increasingly inadequate payments to private insurance companies for Americans who are currently 54 or younger. The result would inevitably be that, starting 10 years from now, seniors would be forced to buy less comprehensive coverage or pay higher premiums and copayments as the years went by. Those seniors would pay more for their health care, and very soon they’d end up paying most of their health care costs themselves. This change would affect more than 400,000 (72 percent) of the people in the 14th Congressional District over time, and nearly 100,000 in the first ten years under the new system – increasing their out of pocket costs by $6,000 in 2022 and by $12,000 in 2032. Under the new system, out-of-pocket costs for these Medicare beneficiaries would more than double compared to traditional Medicare. The average American would have to save more than $182,000 more over the course of his or her working years just to offset the cost of this change. “Republicans have been implying that their budget wouldn’t affect current Medicare beneficiaries or anyone 55 years old or older,” Congressman Doyle noted. “But that’s simply not true. The budget approved by House Republicans in April would cut benefits for current Medicare beneficiaries as well – by eliminating free preventive care and raising the cost of their prescription medications.” “Republicans are clearly trying to mislead the public by glossing over the difference between their Medicare plan and the larger Republican budget plan that includes it,” Congressman Doyle added. “The American People deserve straight talk about this radical plan to make them bear a much bigger share of their health care costs.” The House-passed budget also calls for repealing the 2010 health care reform law, which among many other things, phased out the Medicare prescription drug benefit donut hole and eliminated co-payments for annual check-ups and preventive screenings like mammograms. Those new benefits went into effect on January 1, 2011. This budget would hit seniors’ pocketbooks almost immediately. Eliminating the phase-out of the donut hole alone would affect more than 250,000 Pennsylvanians and cost them $149 million next year and $3 billion over the next ten years. In the 14th Congressional District, that translates into increased costs for nearly 13,000 Medicare beneficiaries, who will have to come up with an additional $126 million over the next decade alone – that’s an average of nearly $1,000 a year in additional expense for each senior citizen who falls into the Medicare Part D donut hole. That’s quite a change for most seniors living on fixed incomes. Over 100,000 current Medicare beneficiaries in Pittsburgh – and even more future beneficiaries – would be hurt by the Republican budget’s elimination of the new preventive care benefits Medicare beneficiaries created in the health care reform law. Those benefits included the elimination of deductibles and co-pays for preventive health care like cancer screening, as well as a free annual doctor’s visit to discuss ways to improve each patient’s health. “That doesn’t sound like “reform” to me,” Congressman Doyle said. “It sounds more like health care rationing, with only the wealthy being able to afford the level of health care that all Medicare beneficiaries enjoy today.” On top of that, the budget approved by the House would convert Medicaid into a block grant and cut it by nearly a trillion dollars over the next 10 years. That fundamental change would eliminate the last guarantee that low-income seniors, the disabled, and the poor could get the health care they need at a price they could afford – and which pays for two-thirds of all nursing home residents in the country. Click here to read the entire report on the impact that the House Republican-passed budget would have on residents of the Pittsburgh metropolitan region.
05.26.2011	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Chris Smith and Mike Doyle, the co-chairmen of the congressional caucus aimed at helping autistic individuals, today introduced a package of bills designed to reauthorize the nation’s landmark program for autism surveillance, research, education, awareness and intervention; to authorize new service programs; and to establish a national autism initiative.“These bills offer a comprehensive approach to tackling this epidemic,” said Smith, whose own state of New Jersey is believed to have the highest rate of autism in the country. “We must remain committed in all areas, including research, federal policy and patient services so that all families affected by an ASD or other developmental disability can improve their lives with the latest treatments and have hope for a better future.” Smith and Doyle, co-chairs of the bipartisan Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE), introduced H.R. 2005, “The Combating Autism Reauthorization Act,”HR 2006, “The National Autism Spectrum Disorders Initiative Act,” and H.R. 2007, “The Autism Spectrum Disorders Services Act.”“I’m pleased to join my Autism Caucus co-chair Congressman Smith and our colleagues in the Senate introducing legislation today to reauthorize the Combating Autism Act and dramatically increase services for both children and adults with autism,” Congressman Doyle said. “The provisions that we passed nearly five years ago have made big differences in the lives of thousands of autistic Americans and their families. The Combating Autism Act’s research on the federal level has spurred innovation and growth in the private sector, giving individuals the opportunity to take greater advantage of better services throughout our communities as we strive to understand autism.” The new legislation is summarized as follows: • H.R. 2005 – “Combating Autism Reauthorization Act” to reauthorize the Combating Autism Act (CAA) of 2006. The reauthorization of CAA would be for an additional three years, through September 30, 2014. • H.R. 2006 – “National Autism Spectrum Disorders Initiative Act” which designates the Secretary of U.S. Health and Human Services Department as head of the national autism effort, and authorizes the Secretary to approve a strategic plan developed by the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee (IACC), in consultation with the National Institute for Health (NIH), and to accordingly allocate funding to NIH agencies, as well as plan and evaluate NIH-conducted or supported autism research. • H.R. 2007 – “Autism Spectrum Disorders Services Act,” which broadens the existing Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee by expanding public representation and by making services to individuals with autism a major focus. Establishes a planning and demonstration grant program for services to children, transitioning youth, adults, and individuals of any age who may be at risk of injury, authorizes grants for protection and advocacy systems, and creates a national training initiative to better equip teachers and autism services providers. CARE has consistently worked to increase federal funding for autism initiatives. Funding for autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has increased from less than $300,000 in 1995 to $22.1 million in 2011. During that same period autism funding at the National Institutes of Health increased from $10.5 million in 1995 to an estimated $160 million in 2011. Smith’s Autism Statistics, Surveillance, Research and Epidemiology Act(Title I, P.L. 106-310) recently marked its own 10th anniversary. The law authorized grants and contracts for the collection, analysis, and reporting of data on autism and pervasive developmental disabilities, and established regional centers of excellence in autism surveillance and epidemiology. In January 2011, a report required by the CAA, cosponsored by Smith and Doyle, described federal action undertaken since enactment of the CAA –mostly in the areas of research and services. The report describes autism-related research and service activities carried out by the federal government since enactment of the Combating Autism Act four years ago. It was released by the Dept. of Health and Human Services and the NIH.The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that one out of every 110 children (1 of 70 boys) in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. Currently, approximately 1.5 million individuals in the US are on the autism spectrum. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects.
05.11.2011	Washington, D.C. - May 9, 2011 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) tonight presented Noël Peterson from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts with the First Prize in the 2011 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Ms. Peterson’s artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is a charcoal drawing entitled “Organization.” Her work was selected out of a collection of 71 entries from 15 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. The second place prize went to Stephanie Taylor from South Allegheny High School for her Acrylic on Canvas “Rocky." The third place prize went to Beth Gonzales from West Mifflin High School for her self-portrait in charcoal. The fourth place prize went to Alaina Schuster from Carlynton High School for her painting “Berries.” The fifth place prize went to Jessica Clair from Penn Hills for her acrylic painting “Portrait of a Misfit.” “We received over 70 outstanding entries for this year’s competition, and I don’t know how the judges were able to pick a winner. The hard work and dedication that these students put into their work is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be proud of their creativity and talent,” Congressman Doyle said. The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the sixteenth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event each year.” Due to the large number of outstanding works of art submitted for this competition, the judges awarded the following 12 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Nicole Murphy from Carlynton High School Cody Atkins from East Allegheny High School Julianna Rinaldo from the Ellis School Olivia Pasquarelli from Montour High School Alexandra Fawcett from Penn Hills High School Alesia Miller from Penn Hills High School Christopher Winston from Allderdice High School Andrew Fusia from Riverview High School Brandi Krivansky from South Allegheny High School Ethan Lyons from Serra Catholic High School Sara Savage from Woodland Hills High School Natalie Kerrigan from West Mifflin High School ###
05.04.2011	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Representative Mike Doyle voted against a bill (H.R. 3) that would restrict women’s ability to buy private health insurance with their own money. “I oppose abortion, and I oppose federal funding for abortion – but federal law already prohibits the use of federal funding for abortion,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This is a huge step beyond restricting federal funding for abortion – it would limit how Americans spend their OWN money and deny American women access to a full range of health care services, and I can’t support that. That is why I voted against H.R. 3.” Congressman Doyle has consistently voted in favor of the Hyde Amendment, which prohibits the use of federal funds for abortion except in cases of rape, incest, or the life of the woman. The Hyde Amendment restrictions were preserved in last year’s health care reform bill, which Congressman Doyle supported and was signed into law. Those provisions were reaffirmed by a Presidential Executive Order and by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. H.R. 3 would go significantly beyond the language of the Hyde Amendment. It would establish government control over any tax deductions or credits a taxpayer would claim – essentially putting new limits on what an American family could do with its own money. These new tax restrictions would apply to contributions to churches and other charities. If enacted, H.R. 3 would deny millions of women access to a full range of legal health care services. It would also raise taxes for a number of women and involve the IRS in determining whether federal tax breaks had been improperly claimed for abortion services.Click here to learn more about H.R. 3 and its impact on women’s access to health care.
05.02.2011	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle released the following statement today in reaction to the announcement that Osama bin Laden had been killed in Pakistan in a raid conducted by U.S. Navy SEALs. “Justice has been done, and a threat to innocent people all over the world has been eliminated. “We’ve been waiting ten years for this news. We never stopped looking for him, and we knew it would come, but knowing finally that bin Laden has been killed is still a relief. “Osama bin Laden’s death should provide some closure for the families who have lost loved ones in 9/11 and the other attacks bin Laden has ordered, inspired, or planned. “All Americans owe our deep thanks to the Navy SEALS who put their lives on the line and carried out the raid with bravery and skill. We also owe a great debt to the dedicated military and civilian personnel who worked tirelessly to track down bin Laden and make this operation possible. This historic moment is also a good time to thank all of the Americans – our military, first responders, and intelligence, justice, and foreign service personnel – who have made great sacrifices and often put their lives on the line to defend our nation in the years since 9/11. “This is a day we've waited for. It doesn't mean our efforts to stop terrorists and bring them to justice are over, but it is an important symbolic victory that will resonate around the world.” ###
04.15.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) opposed the federal 2012 budget plans offered by House Republicans, which would cut taxes for the rich while reducing government assistance for seniors and the poor. Instead, Congressman Doyle voted for alternative budgets offered by House Democrats that would have significantly reduced federal budget deficits without gutting safety net programs for seniors, the poor, and the middle class. “House Republicans call their budget the 'Path to Prosperity,'” Congressman Doyle observed today after passage of H.Con.Res. 34, the bill to set federal spending levels for 2012. “It may be the ‘Path to Prosperity’ for big businesses and folks who are already rich, but for most Americans it’s the ‘Path to the Poorhouse.’ House Republicans’ priorities are wrong-headed and shockingly out of touch with the wants and needs of most Americans.” “The Republicans’ budget would cut programs that help seniors, the poor, and the middle class, cut taxes for corporations and the rich, and raise taxes for everyone else. In comparison to these policy priorities, reducing the deficit seems to have been an afterthought for them.” “Republicans want to replace Medicare with vouchers, gut Medicaid, repeal health care reform, slash education assistance, and cut other safety net programs that tens of millions Americans rely on – like Food Stamps,” Representative Doyle noted. “With all of the insecurity and financial pain the Republican budget would impose on working families and seniors, you’d think it would do more to reduce the deficits that threaten our future standard of living. But trillions of dollars in cuts the House Republicans would make in federal safety-net programs would go to offset trillions of dollars in additional tax cuts. What’s more, the tax “reform” proposed in the Republicans’ “Path to Prosperity is very likely to raise taxes on the middle class.” “The Republican budget would dismantle Medicare and its guarantee of health insurance coverage and a wide range of benefits — and replace it with increasingly inadequate payments to a private insurance company,” Congressman Doyle explained. “The result would inevitably be that seniors would be forced to “purchase less extensive coverage or pay higher premiums” and copayments as the years go by. Seniors would pay more for their health care and very soon end up paying most of their health care costs themselves, taking us back to the bad old days before Medicare when seniors couldn’t afford the health care services they needed. There’s even the possibility that some seniors wouldn’t be able to find insurance at any price in the private market. That doesn’t sound like “reform” to me; it sounds more like health care rationing, with only the wealthy being able to afford the level of health care that all Medicare beneficiaries enjoy today.” “On top of that, the Republican budget would convert Medicaid into a block grant and cut it by nearly a trillion dollars over the next 10 years,” Congressman Doyle added. “That radical change would eliminate the last guarantee that low-income seniors, the disabled, and the poor could get the health care they need at a price they could afford – and which pays for two-thirds of all nursing home residents in the country.” Congressman Doyle voted for several Democratic alternative budgets that would reduce deficits significantly while preserving affordable health care and other safety-net programs for all Americans, make important investments in our country’s future, and require shared sacrifice from all Americans, including the wealthy. “The federal government’s first priority should be creating jobs and putting Americans back to work,” Congressman Doyle said. “We’ve begun to see significant progress in terms of jobs and economic growth, thanks in part to federal efforts over the last 2 years to help the economy recover. Running deficits during the recent recession was necessary to get our economy back on track and help Americans hurt by the economic downturn. But running massive deficits without end would soon choke off economic growth and reduce our future standard of living. Consequently, as our economy hits its stride again and begins creating more new jobs, we must get the federal deficit under control. That will require shared sacrifice from all of us – especially those who have benefited most from the economy in recent years and are the most able to bear a greater share of the burden.” After rejecting all the alternative budgets, the House passed the budget approved last week on a party-line vote by the House Budget Committee with only minor changes.The following links provide more information about H.Con.Res. 34 and the amendments that were offered to it during the budget debate on the House Floor: Click here to read a Congressional Research Service Report on the issues surrounding the Federal Budget in the coming years. Click here to read the Congressional Budget Office’s recent report on the long-term federal budget outlook. Click here to read the Congressional Budget Office’s report on tax and spending options for reducing federal deficits. Click here to read the House Rules Committee Report containing the text of all the budget alternatives offered on the House Floor during the debate on the 2012 federal budget. H.Con.Res. 34, the budget written by Republican Paul Ryan, supported by the House Republican Leadership, reported out of the House Budget Committee, and approved by the House today: The budget approved by House Republicans today would cut almost $6 trillion in spending, cut over $4 trillion in taxes, and reduce the deficit by less than $2 trillion. It would cut spending for domestic programs by 20 percent and freeze it for five years. It would repeal the new health care bill and the new Wall Street reform law. It would also end Medicare as we know it. Starting in 2022, new retirees would no longer get health coverage through Medicare, but instead would get a voucher that would partially pay for insurance they purchase from private health insurance companies. It would make almost $800 billion in cuts in Medicaid, which pays for two-thirds of the nursing home residents in this country. The proposal would cut taxes for corporations and people making over $370,000 a year – and extend tax breaks to oil companies and special interests that ship jobs overseas – while raising taxes for nearly everyone else. The Republican budget also includes cuts in education and training programs, and it would slash vital investments in public safety, research into cures and treatments for diseases, clean energy, and critical infrastructure. Bill Text for H.Con.Res. 34:Click here for HTML Version of H.Con.Res. 34Click here for PDF Version of H.Con.res. 34Background for H.Con.Res. 34: Click here to read the HTML Version of the Budget Committee Report on H.Con.Res. 34 Click here to read the PDF Vesion of the Budget Committee Report on H.Con.Res. 34Click here to read the House Republican Budget Committee Chairman’s description of his budget planClick here to read a summary of the Congressional Budget Office report on the long-term impact of the House Republican budgetClick here to read the entire Congressional Budget Office report on the long-term impact of the House Republican budget. The Republican Study Committee’s (RSC) budget substitute: The RSC Budget would cut over $9 trillion in spending and cut taxes by nearly $2 trillion. It would freeze non-defense discretionary at 2006 levels, an almost 50% reduction over 10 years, while defense spending would dramatically increase. The RSC plan calls for dramatic changes to Medicare and Medicaid as well as other social safety net programs, including a $350 billion cut to the food stamp program. Click here to read what the Republican Study Committee says about its budget plan. Click here to read what the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities says about the Republican Study Committee’s budget plan. The Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) budget substitute: The CBC Budget would make significant investments in education, job training, transportation and infrastructure, and advanced research and development programs, aimed at accelerating the economic recovery. At the same time, the CBC Budget would protect the social safety net without cutting Social Security, Medicaid or Medicare. It would raise new revenue by making the tax system more fair. It would also close certain corporate tax loopholes and preferences, which would save over $1 trillion on the deficit over the next decade. Click here to read more about the Congressional Black Caucus Budget. Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) “People’s Budget”: The CPC Budget would eliminate the deficit by 2021, while focusing investments on job creation and putting Americans back to work. The CPC budget focuses on restoring America’s economic competitiveness, while implementing a more fair tax system, and it focuses on keeping Americans healthy. This budget would also call for bringing American troops back home, and would reduce the deficit by over $5 trillion over 10 years. Click here to read more about the Progressive Caucus People’s Budget. Democratic alternative budget substitute: The Democratic Alternative would protect Medicare and Medicaid, and would achieve primary balance by 2018 through focusing on all spending, including defense discretionary spending. The Democratic Alternative would simplify the tax code, end corporate tax loopholes, and extend tax relief for middle class families. While still making crucial investments in infrastructure and education, it would reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion more than the President’s Budget. Click here to read what the House Budget Committee Democrats say about their budget plan. The Senate must now pass its own version of a federal budget resolution for Fiscal Year 2012, and then the House and Senate must negotiate a final budget plan that can be approved by both bodies of Congress. ###
04.08.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against H.R. 910, a bill that would prevent the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from regulating greenhouse gas emissions that are causing global climate change. The bill would also overturn an EPA scientific finding that greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. The bill was approved on a largely party-line vote.“My Republican colleagues have said repeatedly that we should base federal environmental policies on sound science, but they’ll go to any length to kill policies they don’t like, regardless of what science tells us,” Congressman Doyle noted after the vote. “It’s still hard for me to believe that the House is going to vote to repeal a conclusion by scientists and other experts in the field of climate science." "Apparently, when Republicans say they want to go back to the good old days, they don’t mean the days before we enacted environmental protection laws,” Congressman Doyle observed. “They mean the days when the Inquisition condemned Gallileo for his scientific finding that the Earth revolved around the Sun.” Congressman Doyle also opposed H.R. 910 several weeks ago when it was considered in the House Energy and Commerce Committee. H.R. 910 would overturn EPA’s scientific findings that man-made greenhouse gas emissions are endangering human health and the environment, and it would prohibit the EPA from taking any action to control greenhouse gas emissions in the United States. Click here to read the text of H.R. 910.Click here for more information on H.R. 910. Congressman Doyle has worked for several years to enact policies that curb U.S. greenhouse gas emissions in a way that doesn’t unfairly penalize our country’s energy-intensive, trade-sensitive industries or move US jobs overseas. In the last Congress, he supported the American Clean Energy Security (ACES) Act and played an active part in writing provisions into the bill so that energy-intensive, trade-sensitive industries like steel and cement wouldn’t have been put at a competitive disadvantage compared to those industries in other countries. The House passed the American Clean Energy Security Act (H.R. 2454) in 2009, but it was never approved by the Senate. During House consideration of H.R. 910, Congressman Doyle offered an amendment to H.R. 910 that would have required a study to determine whether regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency under the Clean Air Act to address climate change would cause greenhouse gas leakage and reduce the international competitiveness of energy-intensive industries. Critics of the EPA have charged that the Agency’s greenhouse gas regulations would drive more U.S. manufacturing jobs overseas, while manufacturers who testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee recently explained that they are not even covered by the current EPA greenhouse gas regulations.“There is one thing that is abundantly clear – the truth and science have not played a key role in this bill’s life,” Congressman Doyle said on the House Floor when offering his amendment. “I ask you to support my amendment so we can bring some truth, facts and data to this debate.”Nevertheless, the Doyle amendment was rejected on a largely party line vote. ###
04.07.2011	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) strongly condemned the budget plan approved by House Budget Committee Republicans yesterday. “It’s no surprise that House Republicans have proposed a federal budget that cuts aid for seniors, children, and the poor while protecting tax breaks for corporations and making the Bush tax cuts for the rich permanent,” Congressman Doyle observed. “What’s surprising is the extent to which they've done so – and the callous indifference that underlies this proposal.” “The House Republicans’ budget fundamentally reverses decades of progress towards providing an adequate safety net for the poor, the elderly, the disabled, and workers who are unemployed through no fault of their own,” Congressman Doyle added. “Their message is simple: “you’re on your own.” “Republicans want to replace Medicare with vouchers, gut Medicaid, repeal health care reform, slash education – including Pell Grants for low-income students – and cut other programs that help the most vulnerable people in the country – like Food Stamps and Unemployment Insurance.” “Even though we are deep in debt and running massive deficits every year, the Republicans refuse to adopt such commonsense measures as closing tax loopholes for the oil industry and ending other corporate welfare,” Congressman Doyle said. “On top of it all, many of the spending cuts they propose in programs that help seniors and moderate-income Americans are being made not to reduce the deficit, but to offset House Republicans' plan to make the Bush tax cuts for the rich permanent. These priorities are just obscene.” The budget approved yesterday on a party line vote by House Budget Committee Republicans proposes to cut $6 billion in government spending over 10 years. Of that total, $1 trillion comes from assuming that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan wind down and US troops are brought home in accordance with the Obama Administration’s timetable. An additional $446 billion would come from interest savings produced by $4 trillion in cuts they want to make. The remainder of the “savings” – over $4 trillion – come from domestic programs that help middle- and lower-class Americans. Roughly $1 trillion would come from so-called domestic discretionary spending, and the remainder would come from what are called entitlements – programs under which individuals have a legal right to specified services or payments – like Medicare, Medicaid, Food Stamps, and a number of programs to help the poor. The Republican budget also includes over $125 billion in cuts in education and training programs – most likely requiring cuts in Pell Grants for low-income college students. Click here to read a summary of the Congressional Budget Office report on the long-term impact of the House Republican budget. Click here to read the entire Congressional Budget Office report on the long-term impact of the House Republican budget. “The Republicans’ budget would cut $3 trillion in aid to the poor over the next 10 years – more than $2 trillion of it health care – while it provides $2.3 trillion in tax breaks -- primarily benefiting the wealthy -- over the same period of time,” Doyle said. “I will do everything I can to oppose this crazy budget and adopt a more balanced budget where we preserve a safety net for the most vulnerable Americans while we get deficits under control with shared sacrifice. Rather than getting more tax breaks, the wealthy have to do their part, too.” ###
03.30.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) announced that he had voted against GOP legislation to eliminate assistance to Americans at risk of losing their homes.“While the Home Affordable Modification Program hasn’t helped enough homeowners, it makes little sense to eliminate it when so many Americans remain at risk of losing their homes,” Congressman Doyle said. “Rather than nix the program, we ought to be working to fix it, so it helps more hard-working families who were victims of the recession.”The Home Affordable Modification Program Termination Act (H.R. 839), which the House passed yesterday, is the latest Republican-led effort to eliminate housing and mortgage assistance for struggling middle class homeowners. The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), which H.R. 839 would eliminate, provides a typical borrower with a $500 reduction in monthly mortgage payments and has helped more than 600,000 families secure permanently lower mortgage payments. Other bills that House Republicans have passed recently to eliminate help households at risk of losing their homes include:H.R. 830, abolishing help for families who are underwater to refinance into lower-cost mortgages they can afford to repay.H.R. 836, eliminating short-term loans for up to 33,000 homeowners who lost their jobs through no fault of their own and are at risk of losing their homes.H.R. 861, eliminating efforts to strengthen hard hit neighborhoods enabling cities and states to buy up and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned homes that are driving down home prices, and destabilizing neighborhoods.In addition, over the past four years, Republicans have repeatedly voted against legislation to address the foreclosure crisis, end the abusive practices of some in the financial industry that contributed to it, and help the millions of families at risk of losing their homes. Most House Republicans voted:To eliminate HUD funding for housing counseling to keep people in their homes, as one of their first priorities this Congress. [2011]Against comprehensive anti-predatory lending legislation (three times), including provisions in the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to stop reckless, abusive and irresponsible mortgage lending practices that played a major role in the financial crisis, and to make sure that families get mortgages they can repay. [2007, 2009, 2010]Twice against a first-time homebuyer’s tax credit to spur home buying. [2008, 2009]Against a comprehensive foreclosure crisis bill to prevent families from losing their homes and their neighbors from losing value in their homes -- with expanded opportunities to refinance into lower-cost government-insured mortgages families can afford to repay, putting in place a tough, independent new regulator in charge of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. [2008]Against legislation to push lenders into modifying loans for families in danger of losing their homes, by allowing bankruptcy judges, as a court of last resort, to modify loans for families with existing mortgages. [2009]A broad range of housing groups, and consumer and civil rights organizations – such as the Center for Responsible Lending, NAACP, Americans for Financial Reform, and the National Association of Counties – oppose the attempt to terminate HAMP, and President Obama has already threatened to veto the bill.“The House Republicans’ efforts in recent weeks to end all assistance for struggling middle-class homeowners trying to avoid foreclosure is relentlessly consistent, if nothing else,” Congressman Doyle observed “They even rejected a Democratic proposal to continue the program for active duty military and Gold Star families. That’s a pretty lousy way to acknowledge our debt to those who have sacrificed so much for our country.”House Democrats filed a “Motion to Recommit” on H.R. 839 which, if it had been approved, would have modified the bill to allow the Secretary of the Treasury to provide assistance under HAMP to any homeowner who is currently an active duty member of the Armed Forces or to any person eligible to receive a Gold Star pin as a widow, parent or next of kin of a member of the Armed Forces who has died. This Motion to Recommit was defeated and the Home Affordable Modification Program Termination Act was passed on largely party-line votes.###
02.24.2011	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle condemned H.R. 1, the bill passed 235 to 189 February 19 by the Republican-controlled House to fund federal government operations for the rest of Fiscal Year 2011, citing the devastating impact on safety, health care, education, and essential investments in public infrastructure and scientific research that enactment of this bill would have on our country. The Congressman’s remarks came in response to information released by House Appropriations Committee staff on the adverse impact that H.R. 1 would have. “I voted against the Republicans’ destructive and counterproductive bill to pay for government operations for the rest of the year,” Congressman Doyle said today. “This bill constitutes a wholesale attack on programs and services that the American people overwhelmingly support.” “Frankly, it’s exactly what I’d expect to see when people who hate government are put in charge of it,” Congressman Doyle observed. “They say government is useless and inefficient, and if they get their way, it soon will be.” “The American people understand that we need to get federal budget deficits under control,” Doyle added, “but they also want the federal government to continue to carry out many of the activities it is uniquely positioned to do – like make sure our food is safe to eat, our water is safe to drink, and prescription drugs are safe to take. The federal government is also uniquely positioned – and has the clear responsibility – to provide adequate national defense and homeland security for our citizens. Similarly, the federal government plays an essential role in addressing issues that cross state and local boundaries – issues like pollution, telecommunications, our waterways, and interstate commerce. The federal government also provides billions of dollars each year for basic research that improves our lives and promotes our nation’s long-term economic growth. And all this is just the tip of the iceberg.” “The cuts House Republicans have approved are so drastic that they would severely disrupt operations at many federal agencies,” Congressman Doyle added. “Needless to say, this funding bill would completely eliminate others. I’m concerned that millions of Americans would suffer as a result. Moreover, I believe that making such dramatic spending cuts right now will significantly slow economic growth and job creation.” Economists at a major bank recently estimated that enactment of this “scorched earth” spending bill could reduce economic growth by up to 2 percentage points in the second and third quarters of this year. The Ecomomic Policy Institute estimates that enactment of this bill would destroy 800,000 jobs. “The federal funding bill rammed through the House by the Republican majority last week falls short on all these fronts,” Doyle observed. “The information provided today by the Democratic staff of the House Appropriations Committee highlights many of the ways the House Republicans’ “stewardship” of the federal government would fall short.” “I will fight in the coming weeks and months to put a more reasonable federal funding plan in place.” Earlier today, the Democratic staff of the House Appropriations Committee provided the following information about the effect that funding the federal government at the levels set in H.R. 1 (also referred to as the Continuing Resolution or CR) would have on the American public: PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY • Food and drug safety: H.R. 1 would cut funding for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by $241 million below the agency’s 2010 funding level. This would lead to furloughs and/or RIFs of hundreds of FDA staff – including those who inspect our domestic and imported foods. • Safety of our meat and poultry: H.R. 1 funds the Food Safety and Inspection Service, which is responsible for the safety of the meat and poultry we eat, at its 2008 funding level. This is $88 million below current funding. The US Department of Agriculture (USDA) says this would mean furloughing the federal inspectors in slaughter and processing plants. Since plants cannot operate without inspectors, the plants would have to close their doors. USDA estimates those plants would have to shut down for six to nine weeks. This will hurt the plants, the economies in their towns, the workers, producers and consumers. USDA estimates an economic loss of $11 billion. • Public Safety: The CR cuts funding for Justice Department state and local law enforcement grants (including COPs, the Office of Justice Programs and the Office of Violence Against Women) by over $1 billion, or 27 percent. Such a cut would significantly reduce criminal justice activities and law enforcement operations and personnel across the country. • Violence Against Children: The CR cuts Justice Department juvenile justice grants nearly in half (by $191 million). The juvenile justice grants fund violence prevention grants, child abuse investigation and prosecution grants, and community-based violence prevention programs. • Federal Courts and Justice System: HR 1 cuts judiciary branch salaries and expenses by more than 10 percent – down to $4.521 billion, $476 million below the current CR level. Cuts to the Judiciary will force the federal courts to lay off more than 2,400 support staff and stop payments to attorneys who represent indigent criminal defendants. These layoffs will include probation officers and pre-trial staff, therefore, there will be fewer probation officers to monitor sex offenders and felons, perform law enforcement duties, and protect the general public. • Occupational Safety and Health Administration: OSHA would be cut by $99 million (18 percent) below FY 2010. Because these cuts would come half-way through the current fiscal year, OSHA would have to furlough all of its staff for up to three months, resulting in 8,000 fewer workplace hazard inspections. In addition, the OSHA appropriation provides up to 50 percent of funding for state workplace safety programs, which currently protect 40 percent of the nation’s workers. States would also be forced to curtail their inspections as a result of the funding cut. • Gutting communities’ ability to provide clean water and safe drinking water: The CR would slash the clean water and drinking water state revolving funds by more than 50 percent, dramatically reducing the number of wastewater and drinking water projects communities could finance. SCIENCE, ECONOMIC GROWTH, AND JOB CREATION • Energy Research and Development: H.R. 1 would cut nearly $1.4 billion from scientific research at the Department of Energy. Federally supported basic research has been a reliable source of new knowledge and new products. A $1.1 billion cut to the Department of Energy’s Office of Science would significantly curtail fundamental research in areas of science that are a key to our nation’s prosperity and to preserving America’s place as the world leader in science and technology. A further cut of $250 million to the newly established ARPA-E program will severely curtail a program that has shown promise in leveraging private funding for cutting edge science. The proposed cut would be a major setback to U.S. leadership in science and technology. • Corps of Engineers and Bureau of Reclamation: This bill would cut funding for the nation’s water infrastructure programs $816 million below current levels and would result in the termination of more than 350 ongoing projects and the delay of important projects like the Reducing the level of investment in these areas is penny-wise and pound foolish. H.R. 1 would cut an additional $163 million in funds already appropriated. • National Science Foundation: Funding NSF at the level in H.R. 1 would force the Foundation to fund 5,500 fewer researchers, compared to FY 2010 funding – undermining America’s efforts at breakthrough basic research in science and engineering. AID FOR SENIORS, LOW-INCOME FAMILIES, AND VETERANS • Nutrition Assistance: The WIC nutrition assistance program would be cut by more than $740 million, compared to the FY 2010 level – which would require thousands of parents, pregnant mothers, and children to be dropped from the program. • Low-Income Energy Assistance: Low-Income Home Energy Assistance (LIHEAP) would be cut by almost $400 million – leaving out in the cold many of the seniors and families with children in need of help in paying high energy bills. • Title X: Title X is eliminated, which provides life-saving health services, including HIV testing, cancer screening, blood-pressure testing, and contraceptive services, for more than 5 million low-income women, two-thirds of whom are uninsured. • Housing for Homeless Veterans: Eliminates a program of housing vouchers for homeless veterans. In January 2009, more than 75,000 veterans were homeless and over the course of the year nearly twice that many (136,000) spent at least one night in a homeless shelter. • Community Development: H.R. 1 would cut the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program by nearly two-thirds (62 percent), from $4 billion to $1.5 billion. CONSUMER PROTECTION IN FINANCIAL SERVICES • Securities and Exchange Commission: $1.07 billion proposed, $41 million below the current CR level, which leaves the regulatory agency with fewer staff to investigate potential misconduct and police securities markets to prevent another financial crisis. Further, this level will not allow the implementation of the recently enacted financial reform law ((“Dodd-Frank”), meaning that hedge funds, credit rating agencies, and broker-dealers will continue to operate without regulation, therefore increasing the risk of another fiscal meltdown. • Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: The CR would cut funding for the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – the agency to ensure consumers get a fair deal on credit cards, mortgages, and other financial products – nearly in half, from $143 million to $80 million. EDUCATION • Title I Grants to School Districts for Disadvantaged Children: The Republican CR cuts nearly $700 million from one of the Federal Government’s two major formula programs that provide aid for education to States and localities. This amounts to a 4 percent cut to Title I below last year’s funding level. Title I provides critical federal support to thousands of schools serving nearly 1 million disadvantaged students. These funds pay for teachers, tutors, and after school programs—this reduction in funding could eliminate 10,000 teachers and aides in these struggling schools. • Head Start Early Childhood Education: Head Start is providing comprehensive early childhood services to almost one million low-income children and their families. The cut of $1.1 billion, or 14 percent, below the FY2010 appropriation, would translate to a massive loss of comprehensive early childhood services, causing nearly 218,000 children across the country to be kicked out of the Head Start program this year (a cut over 20 percent and close more than 16,000 Head Start and Early Head Start classrooms. • Striving Readers Comprehensive Literacy: The Republican bill cuts $439 million from Striving Readers – a comprehensive birth through grade 12 literacy program. This is the only targeted federal literacy funding for teacher training and research-based interventions for students who cannot read and write well enough to progress in school. The program supports 114,000 students and 2,900 jobs. The cut is achieved through a rescission of $189 million from balances currently available for the program, combined with zero new appropriations for FY 2011 (compared to $250 million appropriated in FY 2010). • After-School Programs: The Republican CR cuts $100 million from the 21st Century Community Learning Centers program at the Department of Education. This funding supports programs that provide additional time for students, particularly those who attend high-poverty and low-performing schools, to participate in enrichment activities that complement their regular academic program. Hundreds of thousands of working families nationwide depend on these services for their school age children. The cut produces a 9% reduction in funding which would likely mean that 800 fewer sites could be funded, and some 130,000 to 140,000 fewer children could receive after-school services. • Pell Grants and Other Student Aid: The Republican CR cuts the maximum Pell Grant amount from the current level of $5,550 to $4,705 for the coming academic year. Pell Grants provide the basic foundation of federal student aid and help 9 million students afford to attend college. The CR also entirely eliminates federal funding ($757 million in FY 2010) for Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants, which colleges and universities use to assist undergraduates who have the greatest financial needs. That program assisted about 1.3 million college students last year. JOB TRAINING AND LABOR PROGRAMS Job Training/Employment Services: The CR would slash funding for job training by $3.6 billion, nearly eliminating federal funding for job training programs and cutting training for more than 200,000 Americans out of work through no fault of their own. The basic formula grant programs under the Workforce Investment Act, which received just under $3 billion in regular and advance appropriations in last year’s appropriations bill, receive zero funding in the new CR. The result would be that State and local systems that provide employment and training services to dislocated workers, new entrants into the workforce, and low-income youth would have to begin phasing out their operations entirely this year. New enrollment in job training would be terminated, and current participants would be forced to leave training programs that are already underway, affecting up to 8 million workers seeking services this year. Other cuts include a $100 million (44%) rescission from the Dislocated Worker national reserve, and the complete elimination of numerous other programs such as Youthbuild (which received $103 million in FY 2010) and Green Jobs ($40 million in FY 2010). At-risk youth would be hurt further by the $300 million rescission in funding for Job Corps which could result in as many as 10,000 fewer program slots and reduced training at Job Corps centers. HEALTH CARE • National Institutes of Health: The Republican bill cuts appropriations for the National Institutes of Health by $1.6 billion below current levels. This reduction would be a significant setback to research to find and improve treatments for cancer and other diseases. Many ongoing clinical studies would have to be curtailed and funding for current research grants would have to be cut below planned levels. The NIH cuts also include complete elimination of the $300 million provided through the NIH budget for the Global Fund to Combat HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria. • Health Professions and Nurse Training: The CR cuts the HHS health professions training programs by $57 million or 23 percent below the FY 2010 level. These programs are primarily designed to expand the number of primary care providers in medically underserved areas. In addition, the CR cuts a separate group of programs that support training of nurses and scholarships for nursing students by $88 million or 36 percent. • Family Planning: The bill entirely eliminates funding for the title X Family Planning program, which received $317 million in FY 2010. This program helps support family planning and reproductive health services to more than 5 million people annually at 4,500 community-based clinics. Grantees include state and local health departments, hospitals, community health centers, and private non-profit organizations. Services provided include the full range of contraceptive services, as well as screening and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases, cancer and HIV screenings, education, and other preventive services. • Teen Pregnancy Prevention: The bill also eliminates funding for the Teen Pregnancy Prevention program (which received appropriations of $110 million in FY 2010). This program makes competitive grants to public agencies and private non-profit organizations to support evidence-based teen pregnancy prevention efforts. SOCIAL SECURITY AND MEDICARE Medicare Operations: The Republican bill cuts appropriations for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services by $458 million below current levels. This amounts to a 13 percent overall reduction from last year and would leave appropriations a bit below their level five years earlier. Most of these funds are used for review and processing of payments to doctors, hospitals and other providers for services to Medicare patients. Cuts of this magnitude will cause serious problems for the timely payment of claims (jeopardizing the financial health of some providers), as well as hampering efforts to reduce fraud and abuse in the program. Social Security Operations: The Republican bill cuts funding for operations at the Social Security Administration by $125 million below FY 2010 and $1.057 billion below the President’s request. It also rescinds $500 million currently available to Social Security for its information technology needs. These cuts will severely hamper efforts to keep up with growing workloads and reduce the backlog of pending claims for disability benefits. At the very minimum, they will force indefinite continuation of the current hiring freeze, which is expected to reduce staffing by about 2,500 at the Social Security Administration and by 1,000 at the state agencies that do initial review of disability applications. It is quite possible that the hiring freeze will not be sufficient, and furloughs will be required. In either case, the bill will produce longer waits for service at Social Security offices or on the phone and longer delays in decisions on claims. TRANSPORTATION / HOUSING • Air Travel: The bill cuts more than $200 million from the Federal Aviation Administration’s capital budget delaying on-going development of technologies to modernize the nation’s air traffic controller system and further deferring maintenance on already aging facilities. • Railroads and Transit: The bill cancels over $3 billion in high speed rail (51 projects in 22 states) and surface transportation projects (TIGER grants = 76 projects in 40 states) that were awarded with fiscal year 2010 funds. These projects are estimated to have created more than 100,000 new construction jobs. State and local governments dedicated time and resources to submit applications for these programs. The Federal Government spent time and resources evaluating applications. All rendered useless by the action of the House majority. • Low-Income Housing: Public Housing Capital and Operating funds were cut by $1.2 Billion; this will lead to deferred maintenance and an erosion of our investment in public housing. Currently, there is a deferred maintenance backlog of about $20-30 Billion nationwide. • Low-Income Housing: HOPE VI (Public Housing Modernization) funds were zeroed out in the bill and $198 million in unobligated FY 10 balances were rescinded. • Low-Income Housing: Choice Neighborhoods, the Administration’s proposed successor program to HOPE VI, received no funding in the bill. • Homeless Veterans: The Republican 2011 spending bill would terminate the Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing program that gives homeless veterans rental vouchers. A recent report from the Department of Housing and Urban Development concluded that there were more than 135,000 homeless veterans – nearly half of whom were living on the street or in abandoned buildings. HOMELAND SECURITY • Federal Emergency Management Agency state and local grants: FEMA’s programs to provide assistance to firefighters and other first responders were cut by 30 percent in HR 1. Funding for many of these grants has never been lower. There is no funding for: o Interoperable communications (-$50 million), a program that provides funding to states, territories, and local and tribal governments to improve emergency communications, including communications for collective response to natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other man-made disasters. o Buffer zone protection grants (-$50 million), a program that provides grants to enhance security around critical infrastructure and key assets, including chemical facilities, financial institutions, nuclear and electric power plants, dams, stadiums. o Regional catastrophic preparedness (-$35 million), a program to enhance catastrophic incident preparedness in selected high-risk, high-consequence urban areas and their surrounding regions. o Emergency operations centers (-$60 million), which are state and local facilities necessary to ensure continuity of operations and continuity of government in major disasters. Other grants within FEMA’s State and Local program have been substantially reduced. For example: o Both port and transit grants are cut 66 percent from the 2010 level (by $200 million each) o The urban area security grants which fund security in high-risk/high threat cities was reduced by 10 percent (by $87 million) o State homeland security grants that fund each state’s security needs was cut by 10 percent (by $110 million) when you take into account carveouts that they did in the basic program for new activities for the driver’s license security grants and Citizen Corps that previously received separate grant dollars (by $50 million and $12 million respectively in 2010) o Over-the road bus security was reduced by 58 percent (by $7 million) o Security funding to protect the federal infrastructure from cyber attacks is cut by 15 percent below the 2010 level, leaving us vulnerable to the latest cyber intrusions from overseas. o TSA Surface Transportation Security. HR 1 provides $106 million for surface transportation security; slightly below the 2010 level (by $4million). Such a cut would stop in its tracks any hiring of rail security inspectors and canine teams proposed in 2011 and the possibility of furloughing onboard inspectors and canine teams for a short time in order to keep all the new hires from the 2010 bill. OTHER AGENCIES • Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB): The Republican bill provides no funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and rescinds any unobligated balances from the previously enacted appropriation for FY 2011. The largest portion of this appropriation is used for direct grants to help support the operation of approximately 1,300 local public television and radio stations throughout the country. • Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS): The Republican CR entirely wipes out this institution, which is the nation’s largest grant maker in support of service and volunteering (Americorps, Senior Corps, Learn and Serve) and even leaves it with insufficient funds to shut down its operation. The Corporation engages more than five million Americans in service to their communities – the program participants enable thousands of national and local non-profit organizations, faith-based groups, schools, and municipal agencies to solve tough problems and meet critical local needs. ###
02.16.2011	Washington, DC – February 16, 2011 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) released the following statement today for the House Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Communications and Technology hearing on the Federal Communications Commission’s Open Internet rules. “Far from being new and onerous regulations, the FCC’s open internet rules try preserve a status quo that existed when the Internet was founded and when many of American consumers’ favorite services started. I look forward to working with the FCC and stakeholders to ensure that the regulations issued by the FCC will actually preserve an open internet. “I want to note my disappointment that preserving an open internet has become a partisan issue. Some of my first votes on this Committee were votes for Republican amendments to promote competition and preserve consumer’s access to choices in telecommunications services. “Since then, I’ve worked with Republicans who supported innovation and competition. Many joined me in supporting requirements that companies open their telephone and other last-mile networks to innovators. But Republican support on these issues has dwindled to the point where even next-best solutions like rules to preserve an open internet are declared government takeovers – and harbingers of the end of the world. “So I appreciate Commissioner McDowell’s reminder in his testimony that “more than 90 percent of our votes are not only bipartisan, but unanimous” at the FCC. Hopefully we can return to the old spirit as we tackle old but new issues like licensing new Low-Power FM radio stations under the Local Community Radio Act, reforming the Universal Service Fund, data roaming, special access, interconnection, spectrum, and more. “But I have to admit that I’m worried that this issue and subsequent debate over appropriations riders and the Congressional Review Act will poison the well and hurt our ability to work together on these issues in the future. I’m hoping that won’t be the case.” ###
01.18.2011	Washington, DC - Today U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released information detailing the impact that repealing last year’s health care reform law would have on many residents of southwestern Pennsylvania. “These reports show just what’s at stake in this debate over health care reform,” Congressman Doyle said today in releasing this information. “Repeal of last year’s health care reforms would raise health insurance costs for most people in southwestern Pennsylvania, whether they’re small business owners, retirees, working Americans, or recent college graduates." “Last year’s health care reform law guaranteed Americans freedom from the abusive practices that health insurance companies have employed for years,” Congressman Doyle added. “Health care reform took power away from the insurance companies and gave it back to the American consumers. Repeal of health care reform would allow private health insurance companies to go back to cherry-picking low-risk customers and sticking it to the rest of us. I adamantly oppose this effort to repeal health care reform.” “Repeal of health care reform would once again allow insurance companies to discriminate against the hundreds of thousands of working-age Americans in southwestern Pennsylvania with pre-existing conditions, and it would eliminate health care tax credits for a million middle class families and over 80,000 small businesses in our region,” Congressman Doyle said. “What’s more, it would increase prescription drug costs for the nearly 100,000 local seniors who fall into the Medicare Part D donut hole and eliminate the new free Medicare preventive care benefits the health care reform law now provides to nearly 750,000 of our older friends, neighbors, and family members. Finally, repeal of health care reform would increase the cost of care local hospitals provide without reimbursement by nearly half a billion dollars a year – and that would hurt everyone in the region.” Last spring, Congress passed landmark health care reform legislation (HR 3590, The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, PL 111-148) intended to get sky-rocketing health care costs under control and ensure that all Americans have access to affordable, high quality health insurance. The bill banned insurance industry practices like discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions, dropping policy-holders who needed costly medical care, and placing annual and lifetime limits on the benefits policy-holders could receive. Health care reform also required insurance companies to pay the entire cost of preventive care and to allow policy-holders to keep their children on their insurance policies until they turn 26. Health care reform will also establish health insurance exchanges – basically “supermarkets” where individuals and small businesses can shop for insurance policies from a number of high quality private health insurance plans – and provide small businesses and tens of millions of Americans with tax credits so that they can afford them. The health care reform law is also helping senior citizens by phasing out the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit “donut hole” and – as of this month – covering the entire cost of preventive care and providing a 50 percent discount on Medicare Part D beneficiaries’ prescription drug benefits. Republicans in the House of Representatives have introduced legislation to repeal last year’s health care reform bill, and the House is expected to vote on it tomorrow.“As the health care reform signed into law last year is phased in over the coming years, it will help keep health insurance affordable for seniors, small businesses, and the middle class,” Congressman Doyle observed. “In fact, it’s already providing real, tangible benefits to hundreds of thousands of consumers in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area.” Earlier today, the Minority Staff on the US House Energy and Commerce Committee released reports detailing the impact that repealing last year’s health care reform laws would have on the nation’s metropolitan area’s and congressional districts. This report concluded that in the Pittsburgh metro area, repeal of health care reform would: • Allow insurance companies to deny coverage to over a million people with pre-existing conditions, including 160,000 children. • Eliminate consumer protections for 2.4 million individuals who have health insurance through their employer or the market for private insurance. • Eliminate health care tax credits for up to 81,700 small businesses and 1.0 million families. • Increase prescription drug costs for 90,000 seniors who will hit the Part D drug “donut hole” this year. • Repeal new preventive care benefits for 746,000 senior citizens on Medicare. • Increase the costs of early retiree coverage for up to 48,900 early retirees who are still covered by their employers. • Eliminate new health care coverage options for 9,700 uninsured young adults. • Increase the number of people without health insurance by 90,000 individuals. • Increase the costs to hospitals of providing uncompensated care by $483 million annually. Click here to read about the impact that repeal of health care reform would have on the Pittsburgh metropolitan area.Click here to read about the impact that repeal of health care reform would have on Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. ###
01.12.2011	Today the House of Representatives passed a resolution honoring the victims and heroes of the January 8 shooting at a Congressional town hall meeting in Tucson, Arizona, in which 6 people were killed and 14 injured, including U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords. I was shocked and deeply saddened by this terrible tragedy, and my thoughts and prayers go out to the victims, their families, and their friends and loved ones. We must never let such incidents affect one of the bedrock principles of our government - namely, that citizens must have broad access to government officials, most especially their elected representatives.Click here for the full text of the resolution.
01.07.2011	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Chris Smith (NJ-4), released a report today describing autism-related research and service activities carried out by the US Goverment over the last four years. “I want to commend HHS and particularly the Office of Autism Research Coordination at the National Institutes of Health for fulfilling its obligation in a timely manner and providing Congress with this very helpful information,” Congressman Doyle said today in releasing this report. “I also want to commend Representative Frank Pallone, Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health in the 111th Congress, for helping me bird-dog this report and making sure Congress received this report on time.” “Congress has a responsibility not only to pass needed legislation, but to follow up with the appropriate review, oversight, and - if necessary - additional legislative action,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This report provides a lot of helpful new information, and we will definitely use those insights in drafting legislation to reauthorize the Combating Autism Act, which Congressman Smith and I are working on and hope to reintroduce very soon.” “The Federal government has an obligation to help individuals on the autism spectrum and their families, and the Congressional Autism Caucus has been working successfully for 10 years to expand federal research on Autism Spectrum Disorders and provide the necessary assistance to individuals with autism and their families,” Congressman Doyle added. “We plan to build on that progress in research and services to ensure that individuals with autism and their families get the support they need.” “With the beginning of the 112th Congress, the Congressional Autism Caucus has renewed our pledge to people with autism that their government will provide them with the assistance they need to fully meet their potential,” Doyle said. “We will be holding a briefing later this month with HHS to discuss the findings of this report.” This report, which was required by the Combating Autism Act (CAA) of 2006, describes action that the Federal Government has undertaken since enactment of the CAA – primarily in the fields of research and services. The report highlights the positive impact that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (often referred to as ARRA or the “stimulus” bill). The report also noted the effectiveness of behavioral health treatments for children with autism, which Congressman Doyle succeeded in ensuring were covered by insurance in the recent health care reform law.‬ One out of every 110 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. The care involved in treating these symptoms often requires hours of intensive therapy every week - regimens that are often inaccessible or unaffordable for many families. With early intervention and concentrated treatment, the symptoms of autism spectrum disorder can be mitigated, enabling individuals with autism and their families to participate fully in their communities. The report is available on-line at: https://doyle.house.gov/files/documents/2011%2001%2006%20HHS%20report%20on%20RTC%20on%20Activities%20Related%20to%20ASD.pdf ###
12.01.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) released the following statement today in response to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announcement that the Commission would consider the issue of “net neutrality” at its upcoming December meeting: “I awoke to the FCC’s promise to Internet users that Christmas will come on December 21 this year. I’m glad to see this long deliberation finally come to a vote. I applaud Chairman Genachowski for moving forward on a proposal that would protect internet users and preserve net neutrality, but I worry that the Grinch might still steal our Net Neutrality Christmas present. “Far from being new and onerous regulations, net neutrality rules would preserve a status quo that existed when the Internet was founded and when many of American consumers’ favorite services started. And I believe that net neutrality rules would allow the growth of new and improved internet services and applications that drive people’s demand for bigger and faster internet connections – which would further the Commission’s goal of promoting deployment of high-speed broadband. “Since the FCC unjustly did away with a particular legal framework, the Sword of Damocles has hung over the heads of broadband providers who said they would never selectively block or restrict consumers from accessing the content of their choice from whomever they wanted, so ISPs, too, would also benefit from clear rules of the road. They should be ecstatic that the Commission is choosing this path over other scenarios. “As with all laws and regulations, the details make all the difference between a success and a sell-out. “I look forward to working with the FCC, ISPs, consumer advocates, internet entrepreneurs, and developers of innovative new technology and content to ensure that any regulations issued by the FCC will actually preserve net neutrality. “I will work in the 112th Congress to help my colleagues clearly understand this issue and what’s at stake.” ###
11.30.2010	WASHINGTON, DC – February 3, 2015 – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) and Rob Woodall (R-GA-07) announced today that Congressman Woodall will be the new Republican co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Caucus on Robotics. The Caucus, which was established in 2007, focuses on key issues facing the nation’s traditional industrial robotics industry as well as issues critical to growing companies, markets, and industries based on recent technological advances that enable robots to perform functions beyond traditional assembly line tasks and to operate in environments beyond the factory floor. “I want to welcome Congressman Woodall as my new co-chair on the Congressional Robotics Caucus,” Congressman Mike Doyle said in making the announcement. “Rob is an energetic, optimistic Member of Congress who will be a tremendous asset for the Caucus as we work to maintain U.S. leadership in this increasingly important field of technology.” “,” added Congressman Woodall. “.” Congressman Woodall has replaced former Congressman Phil Gingrey (R-GA-11) as Co-Chair of the Robotics Caucus. Congressman Gingrey, who chose not to run for re-election in 2014, was Caucus Co-Chair from 2011 until the end of the 113th Congress in early 2015. The goals of the bipartisan Robotics Caucus include, but are not limited to: • Increasing general awareness of robotics industry challenges and issues among Members of Congress and policy analysts in the federal government; • Educating Members of Congress and congressional staff on current and future research, development, and utilization initiatives involving robotics; • Serving as a forum where robotics-related policy issues can be discussed and debated; and • Ensuring that our nation remains globally competitive as the robotics industry rapidly expands and begins to exert a profound effect on the way our citizens live their lives. The Robotics Caucus has worked to increase overall federal support for robotics R&D. The Caucus has also endeavored to coordinate and integrate robotics research from NASA, the NSF, and the Departments of Defense and Commerce. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ About Congressman Mike Doyle Mike Doyle (D-PA14) is currently serving his eleventh term in Congress. He represents the 14th District of Pennsylvania, which includes the city of Pittsburgh as well as communities in the western, southern, and eastern portions of Allegheny County. His top priorities include revitalizing communities in the 14th District through economic development and high-tech initiatives, creating jobs, preserving Social Security and Medicare, providing better public education, establishing a long-term national energy strategy, and fostering a better climate for our high-tech community. Congressman Doyle serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee which is one of only four exclusive committees in the House. There he sits on the subcommittees on: 1) Energy and Power, 2) Communications and Technology, and 3) Environment and the Economy. About Congressman Rob Woodall …. ###
11.18.2010	U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted in support of a bill to extend unemployment benefits for workers who would no longer be eligible for them after December 1, but due to overwhelming Republican opposition the bill was defeated.“I can’t believe that anyone would vote against extending unemployment benefits now with so many people out of work,” Congressman Doyle said today. “I’m outraged that any Member of Congress would vote against help for millions of Americans just days before the Thanksgiving Holiday, with Christmas right around the corner, and a long, cold winter ahead. These guys make Ebenezer Scrooge look like Mother Theresa.” “We can’t wait any longer to extend unemployment benefits. It has to happen now,” Doyle added. If Congress fails to act soon, two million Americans will run out of unemployment benefits by Christmas. Even those individuals whose state-provided benefits expire after November will not be eligible for Emergency Unemployment Compensation.H.R. 6419, the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act, would have extended federal unemployment benefits for three months. However, the bill was defeated in the House after Republicans overwhelmingly voted against extending unemployment benefits. “Many Republicans justify their opposition by saying they can’t in good conscience vote to increase the federal budget deficit by $12 billion, even to help millions of Americans who’ve lost their jobs through no fault of their own,” Congressman Doyle observed, “but apparently they don’t have a problem with increasing the national debt by nearly a trillion dollars to extend tax breaks for the rich. House Republicans’ hypocrisy and lack of concern for their fellow Americans is stunning.” For more information on the unemployment insurance vote, click here.
10.15.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) announced today that he wants Congress to pass legislation before the end of the year to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time $250 payment in 2011. “Millions of seniors across the country are struggling to make ends meet on fixed incomes while many of their expenses are going up,” Congressman Doyle said this morning. “That’s why I urged the House Democratic leadership to bring legislation to the Floor that would provide this much-needed assistance to our seniors, and I’m pleased that they’ve decided to do so.” The Social Security Administration is scheduled to announce later today that there will be no automatic Cost-of-Living-Adjustment (“COLA”) for 2011, due to the low level of inflation our economy is experiencing. There will be no COLA for SSI, VA Disability Pension and Compensation, or Railroad Retirement benefits, either. The unusually low inflation rate was the reason that Social Security recipients didn’t receive a COLA this year, either. For the first time ever, there will be two consecutive years in which Social Security retirees, veterans, and people with disabilities won’t get increases in their monthly benefits. This unprecedented situation is a result of economic conditions, not the result of Congressional or Presidential action or inaction. The COLA is automatically calculated using data on inflation published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). October 15 is the day BLS releases the final economic factor that the Social Security Administration uses to calculate the annual COLA. In 2009, Social Security recipients saw a 5.8% increase in their benefits, the largest since 1982, as a result of rising costs; but in 2010, they got no COLA at all. “I support the Seniors Protection Act (H.R. 5987), which would provide a $250 payment to more than 50 million American seniors to make up for the COLA many of them were counting on,” Congressman Doyle added. “I will work with my colleagues in the House to put this legislation on the President’s desk by the end of November." Social Security benefit levels are about $14,000 a year for the average retiree, but many Social Security beneficiaries receive far less. Moreover, three out of five seniors in our country rely on Social Security for more than half of their income, and roughly one in three retirees depends on Social Security for almost all of their income. These Americans are especially vulnerable to rising prices, even when the national inflation rate is low. “Too many seniors have to choose between putting food on the table and paying for all the medicine they need,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This payment won’t solve all their problems, but even if it covers just a couple of utility bills or prescription drug co-pays, it’s big enough to mean a lot to them.” ###
10.04.2010	McKeesport, PA — U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14), Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato, McKeesport Mayor Jim Brewster, and PennDOT District 11 Executive Dan Cessna today celebrated the start of construction on the McKeesport flyover ramp. The $10.9 million project will allow unimpeded access to the Industrial Center of McKeesport from State Route 148. The Industrial Center of McKeesport is located on the site of the old US Steel National Tube Works.“The revitalization of this part of the Mon Valley depends upon the redevelopment of the area’s old industrial sites like the Industrial Center of McKeesport, and the redevelopment of such sites depends on making them easily accessible,” said Doyle. “That’s why I worked for years with local community leaders like Mayor Brewster to secure the funding necessary to build a flyover ramp here. As a result of these efforts, we are gathered here today to break ground on this much-needed infrastructure project.” “It is essential to provide easy, continuous access to this former industrial site in order for it to continue to grow, attract business and create jobs for McKeesport and the surrounding area,” said Onorato. “Improved transportation in and around the Mon Valley has always been a critical piece of our redevelopment plans. We completed the Duquesne flyover ramp earlier this year, and we are excited to begin the McKeesport project. We are grateful to Congressman Doyle for securing the funding from the Federal Highway Administration.”"I’ve been working with local officials like County Executive Onorato to clean up and redevelop the Industrial Center of McKeesport, but the restricted access to the site across active railroad tracks has always posed a major obstacle to the success of this initiative," Congressman Doyle added. "The development of a flyover ramp to give unrestricted vehicular and pedestrian access to the site will greatly enhance our ongoing cooperative efforts to put this historic old site back into productive use." The project includes construction of a ramp that will carry traffic over active CSX rail lines and connect Lysle Boulevard and Industry Road. Allegheny County facilitated the design and construction of the ramp and worked with Congressman Doyle, PennDOT, County Councilman Bob Macey, the Regional Industrial Development Corporation of Southwestern Pennsylvania (RIDC), and Mayor Brewster on the overall project.“The development of unimpeded access to the remediated brownfield site will provide the final impetus necessary to bring new jobs and tax base back to the Mon Valley,” Mayor Brewster said. “PennDOT is very pleased to see this significant project, enhancing safety and access, beginning construction,” said Cessna. Construction is expected to be completed in November 2011. # # #
09.29.2010	Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined a majority of Members of Congress in voting to pass the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act, legislation to punish foreign countries for artificially under-valuing their currency to subsidize their imports to the United States. “US workers and companies can compete with any country on a level playing field, but we’ve seen in recent decades the devastation that imports subsidized by foreign governments can do to our domestic manufacturing sector,” Congressman Doyle observed. “It’s long past time for us to protect American jobs and businesses by cracking down on currency manipulation.” Artificially low currencies – currencies that don’t move up or down in response to changes in international trade balances – create more export jobs in the home country and make US imports more expensive (and less competitive). That causes manufacturing job losses in the United States and drives up our trade deficit, which will seriously hurt our economy in the long run. China’s undervaluation of its currency in recent years has had a devastating impact on U.S.-China trade, as well as in third-country markets where U.S. exports compete head-to-head with Chinese exports for sales. What’s more, U.S. investments made in China in dollars receive an artificial bonus, promoting the outsourcing of American production and jobs. Put another way, products made in America have been undercut by Chinese goods, which are substantially subsidized by the Chinese government’s policy of manipulating the value of its currency. The Chinese government’s intervention in world markets has caused its currency to be undervalued by as much as 25 to 40 percent. If China allowed its currency to respond to market forces, it could create a million U.S. manufacturing jobs and cut our trade deficit with China by $100 billion a year, with no cost to the U.S. treasury. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act would give the Administration effective tools to address the unfair trade practice of currency manipulation by foreign countries, including China. The bill makes clear that additional tariffs can be imposed to offset the effects of a “fundamentally undervalued” currency under U.S. trade remedy laws (known as the countervailing duty laws). It reverses a current Commerce Department practice that has precluded it from treating foreign government currency practices as an export subsidy; The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act was approved by the House with strong bipartisan support and now must be taken up by the Senate. ###
09.23.2010	Washington, DC – September 23, 2010 – This afternoon the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 5756, the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide (“TRAIN”) Act, legislation introduced by Congressman Doyle (D-PA14) and Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ4).“Individuals on the autism spectrum often need assistance in the areas of comprehensive early intervention, health, recreation, job training, employment, housing, transportation, and early, primary, secondary and post-secondary education,” Congressman Doyle said today. “With access to, and assistance with, these types of services and supports, individuals on the autism spectrum can live rich, full, and productive lives. The TRAIN Act will help expand the number of individuals adequately trained to provide this essential assistance – and keep them up to date with the latest developments in this field.” “I’m pleased to say that there’s strong bipartisan support for improving the services available to individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders and their families, starting with my friend and co-chair of the House Autism Committee, Chris Smith,” Congressman Doyle added. “Implementation of the TRAIN Act will significantly expand the ranks of qualified service providers, who are equipped with the knowledge and tools of state-of-the-science, evidence–based educational, medical, and social interventions,” said Rep. Chris Smith (NJ-04) on the House floor prior to passage. “The legislation that we are considering today, the TRAIN Act, offers an opportunity for us to do something for the 1.5 million individuals in the U.S. who are living with autism every day. We know that with the right services and supports, autistic children and adults can lead fuller, happier and healthier lives. The TRAIN Act will help ensure that those living with autism and their families are not abandoned to fend for themselves among uncoordinated and even discordant information on treatments and services.” The House passed the bill by a vote of 393-24. The Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act must also be considered and approved by the Senate before it can become law. Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have this measure included in the comprehensive health care reform bill approved by the House of Representatives last year (America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, H.R. 3590), but it wasn’t included in the final health care reform legislation that was subsequently signed into law (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, P.L. 111-152). Consequently, Congressmen Doyle and Smith introduced the TRAIN Act on July 15, 2010. This national autism training initiative would establish grants to provide individuals with interdisciplinary training, continuing education, technical assistance, and information in order to improve services to children and adults with autism and their families, as well as to address the existing unmet needs related to autism. The TRAIN Act is supported by groups like Autism Speaks, the Autism Society of America, self advocates from the Autism Self-Advocacy Network, and the Association of University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD) and many other organizations. The original bill was modified during mark-up in the House Energy and Commerce Committee to reflect technical assistance from the Administration for Children and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. These changes would make certain that University Centers of Excellence on Developmental Disabilities (UCEDs) seeking grant funds under this section demonstrate that families, in addition to individuals on the autism spectrum, will participate in the planning and design of authorized activities – and that UCEDs seeking capacity-building grants to collaborate with minority-serving institutions provide services and conduct research and education. Click here for information on the original bill and the changes made to it in committee.Click here to see the text of the bill as approved by the House today. Click here to watch the House debate on the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act. Congressmen Smith and Doyle are the founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Autism Caucus, also known as the Coalition for Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.). ###
09.23.2010	Washington, DC – September 23, 2010 – Today U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) joined a majority of Members of Congress in voting for the Small Business Jobs Act (H.R. 5297), a bill to expand much needed lending to millions of small businesses – and to offer tax incentives to help small businesses grow, hire, and reinvigorate our economy. This bill will now be sent to President Obama to be signed into law. Small businesses are the engine of our economy, creating two-thirds of the new jobs over the last 15 years. America’s 27 million small businesses continue to face a lack of credit and tight lending standards, with the number of small businesses loans down nearly 5 million since the financial crisis in 2008 under President Bush. The Small Business Jobs Act will help small businesses create 500,000 new jobs: gives small businesses $12 billion in tax cuts to spur investment, growth, new starts and hiring doubles and enhances small business expensing and extends bonus depreciation allows for 100% exclusion of capital gains on investments in small business doubles the deduction for start-up expenditures allows self-employed taxpayers to deduct health costs for payroll tax purposes leverages up to $300 billion in private sector lending for small businesses, along with state grants for small business lending expands small business access to private capital to finance an expansion and hire new workers helps Main Street businesses compete with large corporations doesn’t add a dime to the deficit – in fact, it’s fully paid for over 10 years by closing tax loopholes and reducing the tax gap The bill is supported by the National Small Business Association, Small Business Majority, National Retail Federation, National Restaurant Association, Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, Independent Community Bankers of America, American Bankers Association, Financial Services Roundtable, Business & Professional Women’s Foundation, International Franchise Association, Motor & Equipment Manufacturers, and National Association for the Self-Employed.This is just the latest bill approved by the 111th Congress to help small businesses across the country. Congress has also enacted legislation to: Provide a payroll tax holiday for businesses that hire unemployed workers and an income tax credit of $1,000 for businesses that retain these employees. (According to the Treasury Department, between February and June 2010, businesses had hired 5.6 million workers who had been unemployed for 8 weeks or longer, making those businesses eligible for HIRE Act tax exemptions and credits.) (HIRE Act, PL 111-147) Provide $40 billion in tax credits for small businesses to help them offer employee health insurance coverage – if they choose to do so. These tax credits will cover a portion of the premium costs for their employees’ coverage. More than 4 million small businesses are eligible for these credits. (Affordable Care Act, PL 111-148) Allow businesses to use net operating losses for 2008 and 2009 to offset profits from five previous years, up from two years. (Worker, Homeownership, and Business Assistance Act, PL 111-92) Spur small business investment by providing enhanced small business expensing, doubling the amount small businesses can immediately write off their taxes for capital investments and purchases of new equipment made in 2009. (Recovery Act, PL 111-5) Extend the enhanced small business expensing provisions to cover investments and purchases made in 2010. (HIRE Act, PL 111-147) Help businesses quickly recover costs of new capital investments by providing increased bonus depreciation for businesses that made investments in new plants and equipment in 2009. (Recovery Act, PL 111-5) Spur investments in small businesses by providing an exclusion of 75 percent (up from 50 percent) of capital gains from taxes for investors in small businesses who buy stock (in 2009 and 2010) and hold it for more than five years. (Recovery Act, PL 111-5) Reduce the required estimated tax payments for certain small businesses in 2009. (Recovery Act, PL 111-5) Provide tax relief for taxable corporations converting into S corporations in 2009 and 2010 by reducing the built-in gains holding period from 10 years to 7 years (with gains held for the holding period exempt from tax). (Recovery Act, PL 111-5) ###
09.09.2010	Washington, DC – Today U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) called on the Obama Administration to stand up for American jobs and businesses threatened by illegal Chinese trade policies. “Green technology will drive the global economy in the years to come,” Congressman Doyle observed. “We cannot let the Chinese government hijack our future prosperity and millions of good jobs. That’s why I support the United Steelworkers union’s petition urging the United States Trade Representative to challenge China’s protectionist policies at the World Trade Organization.” Earlier today, the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy, Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW) submitted a petition to the United States Trade Representative (USTR) calling on the USTR to investigate China’s unfair trade practices and challenge them at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The USW petition claims that the Chinese government has: discriminated against foreign firms and goods required the transfer of green technology in return for allowing foreign companies to operate in China heavily subsidized the manufacturing of green technology products massively subsidized exports of these products, and restricted exports of raw materials necessary for the production of green technologies like solar panels, wind turbines, high-performance batteries, and energy efficient lighting “I believe that in the coming decades, green technology will affect the global economy the way computers and the internet did over the last 25 years,” Congressman Doyle said. “A nation that makes major breakthroughs in green technology will be a leader in the world economy, and it will create millions of green jobs for its people in the process. I want the United States to be the world leader in energy-efficiency and alternative and renewable energy technology, and I’ve been working for years to promote federal policies that will help us achieve that goal.” “The United States can compete with any country on a level playing field, but we’ve seen in recent decades the devastation that imports subsidized by foreign governments can do to our domestic manufacturing sector,” Congressman Doyle added. We can’t let that happen again, especially in a growing sector like green technology. I want to commend the USW for taking this action to protect American jobs and businesses. I will do whatever I can to support the USW in urging the USTR to investigate and punish China for sticking it to American workers again.” Section 301 of U.S. trade law allows any interested party to petition the USTR to conduct an investigation into allegations of violations of U.S. trade agreements by foreign countries, as well as foreign policies or practices that are “unjustifiable, unreasonable or discriminatory and burden or restrict U.S. commerce.” Once the USTR has determined that such a violation has taken place, Section 301 also gives the USTR the authority to “suspend or withdraw trade concessions, impose duties or other import restrictions, withdraw, limit or suspend benefits under the General System of Preferences, the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, or the Andean Trade Preference Act, and negotiate agreements to eliminate or phase out the act, policy or practice or provide compensation for trade distortion.” The United States and China are both members of the WTO, and the United States has had to repeatedly call upon the WTO to settle disputes between the United States and China over China’s violation of its obligations under international trade agreements. ###
08.10.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted today to approve federal aid for state education and health care programs (H.R. 1586). Following the vote, he released the following statement: “Today I voted in favor of legislation to provide help to our struggling states’ Medicaid program, and funding to keep our teachers in the classroom. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act will save and create 319,000 jobs, including 161,000 teacher jobs and 158,000 jobs from Medicaid funding, including preventing the layoffs of police officers and fire fighters, close tax loopholes to prevent shipping jobs overseas. The bill is fully paid for and will reduce the deficit. “In the Commonwealth alone, this legislation is projected to save our Medicaid program over $665 million by extending the increased federal contribution through June 30th, 2011. For Education Jobs funding, Pennsylvania is projected to receive nearly $340 million, which will fund thousands of education jobs, according to the U.S. Department of Education. “And most importantly, despite what opponents have said, the bipartisan Congressional Budget Office has determined that this bill, which is completely paid for, will reduce the deficit by $1.4 billion over 10 years. “During times of economic crisis, to cut the education and health care funding is not only counter-productive, but downright foolish. These are essential programs, and I’m happy to be in Washington today to ensure the passage of this vital funding.” ###
07.28.2010	Washington, DC – This morning, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved H.R. 5756, the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide (“TRAIN”) Act, after a manager’s amendment offered by Congressman Doyle was adopted. “I want to thank my friends Chairman Waxman, Chairman Pallone, and Ranking Member Barton for working with me on this bill,” Congressman Doyle said during the markup. Among the many items that the House passed in our health reform bill that the Senate did not was a services training and research initiative for children and adults with autism, so I introduced it as a standalone bill – H.R. 5756, the Training and Research for Autism Improvements Nationwide, or TRAIN Act – and I'm glad it's being marked up today.”“I’m very pleased to note that there’s strong bipartisan support for improving the services available to individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders and their families,” Congressman Doyle added afterwards. Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have this measure included in the comprehensive health care reform bill approved by the House of Representatives last year (America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, H.R. 3590), but it wasn’t included in the final health care reform legislation that was subsequently signed into law (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, P.L. 111-152).Congressman Doyle and Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-4) introduced the TRAIN Act on July 15. This national autism training initiative would establish grants to provide individuals with interdisciplinary training, continuing education, technical assistance, and information in order to improve services to children and adults with autism and their families, as well as to address the existing unmet needs related to autism. The TRAIN Act is supported by groups like Autism Speaks, the Autism Society of America, self advocates from the Autism Self-Advocacy Network, and the Association of University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD) and many other organizations. The manager’s amendment made several agreed-upon technical changes to the text of H.R. 5756 as introduced, reflecting technical assistance from the Administration for Children and Families at the Department of Health and Human Services. These changes would make certain that University Centers of Excellence on Developmental Disabilities, also known as UCEDs, seeking grant funds under this section demonstrate that families, in addition to individuals on the autism spectrum, will participate in the planning and design of authorized activities – and that UCEDs seeking capacity-building grants to collaborate with minority-serving institutions provide services and conduct research and education. The amendment and the amended bill were both approved by voice vote. Congressmen Smith and Doyle are the founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Autism Caucus, also known as the Coalition for Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.). ###
07.22.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) praised a House subcommittee today for considering and approving H.R. 5756, the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide (“TRAIN”) Act, so soon after its introduction last week. “I’m very pleased at this rapid action on the TRAIN Act, and I want to thank Subcommittee Chairman Pallone and Ranking Member Shimkus for their willingness to approve the bill and move it out of subcommittee so quickly,” Congressman Doyle observed. “There’s a pressing need for enactment of the TRAIN Act, which would greatly improve the quality of care individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders receive.”Congressman Doyle and Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-4) introduced the TRAIN Act last week on July 15. This national autism training initiative would establish grants to provide individuals with interdisciplinary training, continuing education, technical assistance, and information in order to improve services to children and adults with autism and their families, as well as to address the existing unmet needs related to autism. “The number of diagnoses of cases of Autism Spectrum Disorders has grown dramatically in recent years – and there’s a shortage of properly trained professionals in the field, and there’s no nationwide structure for disseminating the latest research,” Congressman Doyle said. “That means that many families have to struggle to get the best care possible for their children or adult relatives with ASD. These families deserve better. The Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act would create an effective tool for increasing the number of autism service providers across the country and ensuring that they – and families affected by autism – can keep up to date with the latest research on diagnosis and treatment of individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorders,”The Association of University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD) strongly supports the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act (H.R.5756). Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have this measure included in the comprehensive health care reform bill approved by the House of Representatives last year (America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, H.R. 3590), but it wasn’t included in the final health care reform legislation that was subsequently signed into law (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, P.L. 111-152).“The Subcommittee’s swift approval of the TRAIN Act greatly increases the likelihood that it can pass the House and Senate and be signed into law before the 111th Congress adjourns,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I appreciate the bipartisan support this important legislation has received.”Congressmen Smith and Doyle are the founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Autism Caucus, also known as the Coalition for Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.). ###
07.15.2010	Washington, DC - This afternoon, U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Chris Smith (NJ-4) introduced the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act (H.R.5756). “The number of people diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorders has been growing by leaps and bounds and shows no indication of tapering off,” Congressman Doyle observed today. “People who are trying to get the best possible care for an autistic family member just can’t get the resources they need and deserve, and these resources are all too often scattered and uncoordinated. Moreover, the service providers that do exist aren’t able to meet the growing demand. In addition, there’s no current system for disseminating the latest research on evidence-based interventions to these families and the health and education professionals working in the field. That’s why I drafted and introduced the introduced the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act.”This national autism training initiative would establish grants to provide individuals with interdisciplinary training, continuing education, technical assistance, and information in order to improve services to children and adults with autism and their families, as well as to address the existing unmet needs related to autism. “The Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act would provide the country with an effective program for expanding the ranks of autism service providers and ensuring that they – and families affected by autism - are kept abreast of the latest developments in this field,” Congressman Doyle said. The Association of University Centers on Disabilities (AUCD) strongly supports the Training and Research for Autism Improvement Nationwide Act. “It is urgent that we develop systematic structures and supports to provide for the translation of research into practice, ensure the use of evidence based interventions and provide a quality standard to the services and supports provided to adults with developmental disabilities, including those on the autism spectrum,” said Tamar Heller, Ph.D., director of the University Center of Excellence in Developmental Disabilities (UCEDD) for the State of Illinois and current president of the Association of University Centers on Disabilities.Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have this measure included in the comprehensive health care reform bill approved by the House of Representatives last year (America’s Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009, H.R. 3590), but it wasn’t included in the final health care reform legislation that was subsequently signed into law (the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, P.L. 111-148, and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, P.L. 111-152).“I am optimistic that the legislation will receive a hearing and committee consideration in the near future, and with enough support I believe it can pass the House and Senate and be signed into law before the 111th Congress adjourns,” Congressman Doyle added. Congressmen Smith and Doyle are the founders and co-chairs of the Congressional Autism Caucus, also known as the Coalition for Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.). ###
07.01.2010	Washington, DC - Last night, Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) joined a majority of Members of Congress in voting to approve the final version of H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. "This legislation goes a long way towards preventing another financial meltdown, avoiding the need for another taxpayer bailout of "too big to fail" banks, and creating an independent federal watchdog agency devoted to protecting American consumers from unfair and abusive financial practices," Congressman Doyle said after the vote. "After a decade of less regulation and lax enforcement, it's long past time for Congress to change the rules that have allowed big Wall Street banks to gamble with consumers' money and force taxpayers to pick up the tab when their bets don't pay off. "The bill also ensures that consumers will get a fair shake and understandable terms when they sign a contract for a credit card, mortgage, or other financial product. The new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau will have the authority to put an end to hidden fees and other deceptive financial industry practices. "This bill is a remarkable victory for consumers and taxpayers over powerful special interests, and I am very proud to have voted for it." Click here for more information on H.R. 4173, The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
06.30.2010	Washington, DC – Today Representative Doyle released the following map and the accompanying statement: “The economic stimulus bill has done a lot to help turn our economy around and create or save millions of jobs. According to a number of respected economists and macroeconomic forecasters, the bill saved between 1 and 3 million jobs, reduced unemployment significantly from what it would otherwise have been, and expanded our economy. I am proud to have helped enact this much-needed legislation. “What is less well understood is the impact that the stimulus bill has had at the state and local level. Information on the impact that the bill has had on the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania can be found at recovery.pa.gov. The impact is substantial – nearly $30 billion dollars in contracts, grants, loans, tax cuts, and assistance to state and local governments as well as millions of individuals. “My staff has prepared the following map showing some of the local institutional recipients of federal funding from the stimulus bill – in and close to the 14th Congressional District. I hope it gives you a better idea of the impact that the stimulus bill has had in our region. Bear in mind, however, that most of the stimulus funding coming to the 14th District -- like nearly $20 billion of the $26 billion in stimulus money coming to Pennsylvania – consists of benefits or tax breaks for individuals and businesses and isn’t represented on this map.” View Impact of Stimulus Bill in 14th District in a larger map The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is expected to receive $26.8 billion in stimulus aid: More than $11 billion will be in the form of tax benefits for households and businesses. $2.2 billion will be in the form of direct federal grants. The remainder – $13.5 billion – will be spent through programs administered by the state government. Of that $13.5 billion, more than half will go to individuals in the form of direct aid like unemployment insurance payments, food and nutrition assistance, and health care. In other words, more than two-thirds of the $27 billion in stimulus money going to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania will go directly to individuals and businesses. For example: More than a million workers in Pennsylvania received additional or extended unemployment insurance benefits as a result of the stimulus bill. Unemployment in Allegheny County has been hovering at or above 50,000 people in recent months (that’s an unemployment rate of over 8 percent). The Commonwealth’s Medical Assistance program continued to provide health care coverage to more than 2 million Pennsylvanians thanks to the $4 billion in stimulus funding the Commonwealth received. Without that assistance the program would have had to terminate this safety net program for tens of thousands of low-income, elderly, and disabled individuals. Nearly 200,000 people are enrolled in the Medical Assistance program in Allegheny County. 4.8 million households in Pennsylvania – 95 percent of working families in the state – received a tax cut of up to $800 on their 2009 federal income taxes under the stimulus bill’s Making Work Pay tax credit, and they’ll get the credit again in 2010. 237,000 of those households (containing 540,000 people) are in the 14th District. 2.6 million Pennsylvania residents living on Social Security, Supplemental Security Income, Railroad Retirement, or veterans’ benefits – including more than 80,000 in the 14th District – received a one-time payment of $250 last year. The families of over half a million children in the Commonwealth qualified for the expanded Child Tax Credit (worth up to $1,000) included in the stimulus bill.More than 1 million households in Pennsylvania were protected from paying higher taxes under the federal Alternative Minimum Tax as a result of the stimulus bill. ###
06.10.2010	Washington, DC - Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) introduced H.R. 5500, legislation to preserve parts of the former U.S. Steel Homestead Works and educate the public about its importance. H.R. 5500 would establish a Steel Industry National Historic Site in Braddock, Munhall, and Swissvale as part of the National Park System. This National Historic site would include the location of the Battle of Homestead in Munhall, as well as important artifacts of the nation’s steel industry like the Carrie Furnace complex in Swissvale and Rankin and the Hot Metal Bridge in Rankin and Munhall. "I want to make sure this nation and the world always remember the sacrifices made by the workers who labored in the mills in and around Pittsburgh," Congressman Doyle said today. "I have been working with the Steel Industry Heritage Corporation for many years to preserve the Battle of Homestead site, Carrie Furnaces 6 and 7, the Hot Metal Bridge, and the history of those who toiled there. I believe that our nation has an obligation to preserve these unique historical assets, and this legislation is the next step in that process." The Homestead Works played an important role in America’s economic and industrial history. It was one of the largest and most productive steel mills in the world 100 years ago. The Homestead Works and other steel mills nearby made the United States the economic and military superpower it is today. As a result, Pittsburgh is still known for its steel industry around the world. The history of the Homestead Works is much bigger than that of Pittsburgh or even southwestern Pennsylvania, however – it reflects national trends in industrial development, scientific innovation and technological advancement, our labor and social history, our country’s diverse ethnic heritage, and the work ethic that characterizes this nation. The most well-known incident in Homestead’s history is the Battle of Homestead, where in 1892 steel workers repulsed a force of Pinkerton detectives sent in to break their strike. More than a hundred years later, the Battle of Homestead still stands as one of the most compelling stories in the long history of the labor movement in the United States. The Homestead Works’ Carrie Furnaces 6 and 7 are also sites of national historical significance. They are rare examples of early production techniques and turn-of-the-century technological advances. These relics are the only remaining pre-World War II era blast furnaces left in the Pittsburgh area, and they represent some of the most important technological accomplishments of the American steel industry. The National Park Service recognizes the historical significance of these sites and has recommended that they be preserved, in a National Historic Site, for future generations. Congressman Doyle has been working with the non-profit Steel Industry Heritage Corporation for a number of years with local community leaders and other state and federal officials to preserve the history of the U.S. steel industry and the communities in southwestern Pennsylvania that were inseparably linked to it. In 1996, Congress designated the 8 counties of southwestern Pennsylvania as the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area. In 2006, the Carrie Furnaces site in Swissvale and Rankin was designated a National Historic Landmark (NHL) by the National Park Service - joining fewer than 3,000 such sites across the entire country. Similar legislation has been introduced in the Senate (S. 199).
05.26.2010	Washington, DC – May 26, 2010 – Today Congressman Mike Doyle (D-Pennsylvania) sent a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski regarding his proposal for a “Third Way” to protect consumers and promote universal access and adoption to broadband Internet connectivity. In the letter, Congressman Doyle urged the FCC to reclassify residential broadband services as Title II – Telecommunications Services. He also expressed his belief that Congress should review and update the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The full text of the letter follows below: May 26, 2010 The Honorable Julius Genachowski Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Genachowski, As you may know, television broadcasters in my district are airing advertisements from a group called “Americans for Prosperity” suggesting that you are about to take over the Internet. As you definitely know, those allegations are untrue. Setting those ads’ fear, uncertainty and doubt aside, I have heard from many constituents and small businesses in my district that are worried of having new and innovative business ideas restricted by a prospective customer’s broadband provider. And at the Federal Communications Commission’s field hearing on July 21, 2008 at Pittsburgh’s Carnegie Mellon University, several witnesses agreed that the Internet – and other communications networks – were only useful if people had access to them and used them. As the Commission’s National Broadband Plan makes clear, more needs to be done to spur the deployment and promote the accessibility of open broadband networks for all consumers, including rural, low-income, and disabled Americans. I have heard from stakeholders and constituents, from people on all sides of this debate. I have reviewed the Commission’s recent National Broadband Plan, the relevant statutes, the DC Circuit’s recent decision in Comcast v. FCC and your statements about the decision’s fallout. And I have come to the conclusion that if the Federal Communications Commission is to enact those goals, then we are left with only two options that I believe must happen concurrently. First, the FCC must reclassify residential broadband services as Title II – Telecommunications Services. Instead of taking us back to 1996-era regulations, you proposed that the FCC forbear from enforcing certain requirements under that law, including wholesaling requirements and price cap regulations. I am sure that you did not come to this decision lightly, and I hope that as the Commission decides which regulations to forbear and which to enforce, that you keep consumers in the front of your mind. Second, Congress must review and possibly update the Telecommunications Act of 1996. As you may know, the House Committee on Energy and Commerce has announced that it will soon begin the process to update the nation’s communications laws. I look forward to our Committee addressing these issues promptly, but after reviewing the legislative history and my own memory, I urge you to take note of the fact that the impetus for sweeping reform first began around 1982-1984 after the breakup of AT&T. Several narrow, discrete pieces of legislation were introduced – with varying levels of success – but it was not until 1994 that a basic framework coalesced. And even then, it took an additional Congress to finally see it enacted. After it was enacted, the fight began immediately to change provisions and rewrite history, weakening the bill in Congress, in the courts and at the Commission. So I look forward to working with you to see to it that the Commission has the proper authority going forward to protect and promote an open internet where consumers have the ability to access the services they want using the devices they want. Before I came to Congress, I hated having to rent the black rotary phone in our house, and I resented the lack of choices I, and other consumers had. And when I entered Congress, during the heat of the debate over what became the 1996 Telecommunications Act, I voted for the final legislation because I felt it was designed with consumers’ interest in mind. Since then, we’ve seen an explosion of new products and services that rely on an open internet for survival. And consumers in my district want faster speeds from their telecommunications provider because of the new and expanded services that information service providers offer – like video, gaming and more. I look forward to working with you as the FCC completes its work to reassert its Congressionally-mandated role to protect consumers and promote the public interest. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress ###
05.19.2010	In March, 2010, I joined a majority of my colleagues in the House and Senate in enacting comprehensive health care reform legislation after more than a year of debate. The new law, which phases in over the next few years, builds on our existing health insurance system, in which most working-age Americans and their families get their health insurance through their employer. It improves upon the current system, however, by ending longstanding insurance industry practices like discriminating against people with pre-existing conditions and dropping policy-holders when they get seriously ill. The new law will also establish health insurance "supermarkets" where, starting in 2014, people who don't get insurance through their employers, as well as small businesses, will be able to purchase health insurance from among a number of private plans that will have to compete for their business. There has been a lot of confusion about how the health care reform law will affect each of us. The House Energy and Commerce Committee has created some interactive web tools to help individuals understand how these health care reforms will affect them. Click here to find out just how health care reform will affect you.
05.17.2010	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) tonight presented Stephanie Taylor from South Allegheny High School with the First Prize in the 2010 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Stephanie’s artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is an acrylic painting entitled “Leaves.” Her work was selected out of a collection of 60 entries from 12 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. The second place prize went to Rebekah Garard from Trinity Christian School for her charcoal drawing “The Little Rascal.” The third place prize went to Victoria Donahoe from West Mifflin High School for her acrylic on paper composition, “Bananas with Plastic.” The fourth place prize went to Chloe Weiss from Penn Hills for her colored pencil composition “Lemon Queens.” The fifth place prize went to Krysty Kunkel from Penn Hills High School for her painting entitled “Self-Portrait.” “We received 60 outstanding entries for this year’s competition, and I can’t imagine how the judges were able to pick a winner. The hard work and dedication that these students put into their work is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be proud of their creativity and talent,” Congressman Doyle said. The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the fifteenth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted this event. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event every year.” Due to the large number of outstanding works of art submitted for this competition, the judges awarded the following 12 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: Adam Wayne Baker from Sto-Rox High School for his acrylic and paint marker composition “Celtic Cross.” Zoe Capcara from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts for her untitled print on the New York Times. Alexis Carr from South Allegheny High School for her acrylic composition entitled “A Mother’s Love.” Nikki Croft from East Allegheny High School for her acrylic on canvas composition “Discovery of Colors.” Allison Funwela from Sto-Rox High School for her pastel composition “A Mother’s Love.” Kyle Gorcey from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts for his digital photography entitled “Eagle.” And Elijah Johnson from Woodland Hills for his dry point print “Season Three.” Amber Key from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts for her relief print “Pittsburgh Transforming: Rusty Shoes.” Noel Peterson from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts for a carbon and white chalk drawing “Visionaries of Pittsburgh.” Nour Qutyan from Brashear High School for her black and white photography, “First Day of My Life.” Chloe Regan from Penn Hills High School for the acrylic composition on masonite board “Elton the Elephant.” Audrey Stygar from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts for a mixed media on canvas composition entitled “Pittsburgh Transforming: Shattered Past.” ###
04.15.2010	Washington, DC – April 15, 2010 – Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) introduced legislation to increase the openness, transparency, and accessibility of publicly funded research results. The Federal Research Public Access Act (H.R. 5037) would require federal agencies with annual extramural research budgets of $100 million or more to provide the public with online access to research manuscripts stemming from funded research no later than six months after publication in a peer-reviewed journal."This bill will give the American people greater access to the important scientific research results they’ve paid for,” Congressman Doyle said today. “It is a policy that recognizes the new opportunities inherent in the digital environment, and it will accelerate scientific discovery and innovation and enable Americans to realize a significant return on our national investment in science.” “Only through widespread access and dissemination will our investment in publicly funded research achieve its potential,” added Congressman Doyle. “We must take full advantage of the opportunities afforded to us by available technology to eliminate access barriers and more effectively tackle issues of critical importance to the American public – especially biomedicine, education, climate change, and energy." Specifically, the Federal Research Public Access Act would: Require federal departments and agencies with an annual extramural research budget of $100 million or more, whether funded totally or partially by a government department or agency, to submit an electronic copy of the final manuscript that has been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal. Ensure that the manuscript is preserved in a stable digital repository maintained by that agency or in another suitable repository that permits free public access, interoperability, and long-term preservation. Require that each taxpayer-funded manuscript be made available to the public online and without cost, no later than six months after the article has been published in a peer-reviewed journal. Similar legislation was introduced in 2009 by Senators Lieberman (I-CT) and Cornyn (R-TX). Like the Senate bill, the Federal Research Public Access Act would unlock unclassified research funded by agencies like the Department of Agriculture, Department of Commerce, Department of Defense, Department of Education, Department of Energy, Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Transportation, Environmental Protection Agency, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the National Science Foundation."This legislation represents a giant step forward towards ensuring that everyone - scientists and citizens alike - can access, use and benefit from our collective investment in scientific research,” said Heather Joseph, Executive Director, Scholarly Publishing Academic Research Coalition (SPARC). The Federal Research Public Access Act of 2010 (FRPAA) builds on the success of the first U.S. mandate for public access to the published results of publicly funded research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). In 2008, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) implemented their public access policy. It is estimated that approximately 80,000 papers are published each year from NIH funds. The Federal Research Public Access Act follows closely on the heels of a recent expression of interest in public access policies from the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, which issued a request for public comment on mechanisms that would leverage federal investments in scientific research and increase access to information that promises to stimulate scientific and technological innovation and competitiveness. House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Henry Waxman (CA-30) co-sponsored the Federal Research Public Access Act, as did Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet Chairman Rick Boucher (VA-09) and Representatives Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) and Gregg Harper (MS-03) A number of major research universities have written an open letter of support for the Federal Research Public Access Ad. The text of that letter is reproduced below: An Open Letter to the Higher Education Community The United States Congress will have the opportunity to consider the Federal Research Public Access Act (FRPAA). FRPAA would require Federal agencies whose extramural research budgets exceed $100 million to develop policies ensuring open, public access to the research supported by their grants or conducted by their employees. This Bill embodies core ideals shared by higher education, research institutions and their partners everywhere. The Bill builds upon the success of the first U.S. policy for public access to publicly funded research – implemented in 2008 through the National Institutes of Health – and mirrors the intent of campus-based policies for research access that are being adopted by a growing number of public and private institutions across the nation. We believe that this legislation represents a watershed and provides an opportunity for the entire U.S. higher education and research community to draw upon their traditional partnerships and collaboratively realize the unquestionably good intentions of the Bill’s framers – broadening access to publicly funded research in order to accelerate the advancement of knowledge and maximize the related public good. By ensuring broad and diverse access to taxpayer-funded research the Bill also supports the intuitive and democratic principle that, with reasonable exceptions for issues of national security, the public ought to have access to the results of activities it funds. The broad dissemination of the results of scholarly inquiry and discourse is essential for higher education to fulfill its long-standing commitment to the advancement and conveyance of knowledge. Indeed, it is mission critical. For the land-grant and publicly funded institutions among us, it addresses the complementary commitment to public service and public access that is included in our charters. In keeping with this mission, we agree with FRPAA’s basic premise that enabling the broadest possible access to new ideas resulting from government-funded research promotes progress, economic growth, and public welfare. Furthermore, we know that, when combined with public policy such as FRPAA proposes, the Internet and digital technology are powerful tools for removing access barriers and enabling new and creative uses of the results of research. Collectively, our universities engage in billions of dollars of funded research. On average, approximately 50% of our research funding originates with the federal government. That public investment – estimated at over $60.5 billion for the research covered by FRPAA – is complemented by our own institutional investments in research units, laboratories, libraries, and the faculty and staff whose expertise permeates them. FRPAA has the potential to enable the maximum downstream use of those investments. Many of us are already working on programs and policies to promote greater access to the wealth of research produced by our scholars; we are adopting policies for open access to the research outputs of our institutions; we are building open access digital repositories to collect research, developing advanced publishing channels, and working with our scholarly publishing partners to pursue the broadest possible distribution of scholarship at lowest possible costs. FRPAA will complement these efforts and be a powerful tool in ensuring their success. Each month the evidence mounts that open access to research through digital distribution increases the use of that research and the visibility of its creators. Widespread public dissemination levels the economic playing field for researchers outside of well-funded universities and research centers and creates more opportunities for innovation. Ease of access and discovery also encourages use by scholars outside traditional disciplinary communities, thus encouraging imaginative and productive scholarly convergence. Open and public access policies can also match the missions of scholarly societies and publishers who review, edit, and distribute research to serve the advancement of knowledge. Sharing the fruits of research and scholarship inevitably leads to the creation of more research and scholarship, thus highlighting the need for publishing professionals to manage the selection and review of the highest quality research, both publicly and privately funded. Open and public access to publications in no way negates the need for well-managed and effective peer review or the need for formal publishing. It does, however, challenge us all to think about how best to align the intellectual and economic models for scholarly publishing with the needs of contemporary scholarship and the benefits, including low marginal costs of distribution, of network technology. That challenge is one that many scholarly societies and commercial publishers are already successfully engaging through a variety of business model experiments and partnerships. We believe that FRPAA productively calls for further engagement. As scholars and university administrators, we are acutely aware that the present system of scholarly communication does not always serve the best interests of our institutions or the general public. Scholarly publishers, academic libraries, university leaders, and scholars themselves must engage in an ongoing dialogue about the means of scholarly production and distribution. This dialogue must acknowledge both our competing interests and our common goals. The passage of FRPAA will be an important step in catalyzing that dialogue, but it is not the last one that we will need to take. FRPAA is good for education and good for research. It is good for the American public, and it promotes broad, democratic access to knowledge. While it challenges the academy and scholarly publishers to think and act creatively, it need not threaten nor undermine a successful balance of our interests. If passed, we will work with researchers, publishers, and federal agencies to ensure its successful implementation. We endorse FRPAA’s aims and urge the academic community, individually and collectively, to voice support for its passage. Sincerely, Mark Kamlet, Provost/Senior Vice President, Carnegie Mellon University Kent Fuchs, Provost, Cornell University Carol Folt, Dean of Faculty and Acting Provost, Dartmouth College Peter Lange, Provost, Duke University Steven Hyman, Provost, Harvard University Karen Hanson, Provost and Executive Vice President, Indiana University David Hodge, President, Miami University Kim A. Wilcox, Provost and Vice President, Michigan State University E. Gordon Gee, President, Ohio State University Joseph Alutto, Provost, Ohio State University Rodney A. Erickson, Executive VP/Provost, Pennsylvania State UniversityChristopher L. Eisgruber, Provost, Princeton University Philip Furmanski, Executive Vice President, Rutgers University Michael T. Marsden, Dean/Academic Vice President, St. Norbert College John Etchemendy, Provost, Stanford University Eric F. Spina, Vice Chancellor and Provost, Syracuse University Michael A. Bernstein, Senior VP/Provost, Tulane University Lawrence Pitts, Interim Provost/Executive VP, University of California George Breslauer, Executive Vice Chancellor/Provost, U.C. Berkeley Enrique J. Lavernia, Provost & Executive Vice Chancellor, U.C. Davis R. Michael Tanner, Provost/Vice Chancellor,University of Illinois at Chicago Wallace Loh, Executive Vice President and Provost, University of Iowa Vincent Price, Provost, University of Pennsylvania James V. Maher, Provost/Senior Vice Chancellor, University of Pittsburgh Donald R. Bobbitt, Provost/Vice President, University of Texas at Arlington Steven W. Leslie, Executive VP/Provost, University of Texas at Austin Edward S. Macias, Provost/Vice Chancellor, Washington University in St. Louis April 15, 2010 ###
03.26.2010	Washington, DC -- Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) joined a majority of Members of the House of Representatives in voting to approve a landmark health care reform bill on March 21, and the President signed this bill into law on March 23. The House and Senate both approved legislation (the Reconciliation Act of 2010) to strengthen the new law last night. Congressman Doyle voted for this legislation as well. Today, Congressman Doyle released the following statement: "I wanted to take this opportunity to let you know what the new laws do and why I voted in support of this health care reform package. "I believe that this legislation will go a long way toward making quality health insurance more affordable for all Americans – and do it without busting the federal budget. "The bill will end insurance industry practices like discriminating on the basis of pre-existing conditions, dropping coverage when a policy-holder becomes seriously ill, and capping annual and life-time benefits. That will provide security to middle-class families. Too many middle-class families are just one layoff or illness away from losing their health insurance coverage. "It will extend health insurance coverage to 30 million Americans who are currently uninsured and provide tax credits to help millions of Americans pay for health insurance. "These reforms will provide stability to middle-class families. Insurers across the country have been raising premiums by as much as 39 percent. Families just can’t keep paying rising costs like that. By ending the insurance company practice of placing annual and life-time limits on benefits – and by capping out-of-pocket expenses for families – the new reform law will dramatically reduce the number of families who end up broke or bankrupt after serious illnesses (more than half of all bankruptcies in this country involve households with high medical bills). The new law will also make sure that people’s health care dollars go where they’re supposed to – medical care for policy-holders – and not into advertising budgets or executive bonuses. "The new law will also close the Medicare prescription drug 'donut hole' and extend the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund by nearly 10 years. "Finally, the new health reform law will increase competition in the health insurance industry – and bring down health care costs for households and small businesses – by creating a health insurance exchange where insurance companies will have to compete for your premium dollars. Up until now, insurance companies could raise rates as much as they pleased because there wasn’t enough competition in most health insurance markets across the country. The new law makes sure that there are more choices for families and small businesses – and more competition to keep prices down. In addition, small businesses will now be able to offer good health care benefits to their employees because they will be able to combine their purchasing power with other small businesses to get the same lower insurance rates that big corporations have historically negotiated. "As the new law takes effect in the coming years, it will rapidly become clear that most of the dire predictions that were made about all the horrible things it would do were distortions, exaggerations, misinformation, or outright lies." The links below provide information about the new health care reform laws – from brief summaries to the complete text of the legislation and background information on health care costs and what would have happened if Congress hadn’t enacted these comprehensive health care reforms. Click here for a summary of what the new health care reform law will doClick here for information on how the new law will affect residents of Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional DistrictClick here for information on the impact of the health care reform legislation on the federal budgetClick here for information on the changes that were made to the Senate-passed billClick here for other information about the health care reform legislationClick here for information on why doing nothing would cost us much more ###
03.26.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) joined a majority of Representatives and Senators in approved legislation last night that included the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) — the single largest investment in college aid in history. “This landmark reform is a win-win for the American people,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Congress has made college more affordable for millions of Americans and paid for it by eliminating billions of dollars in wasteful corporate welfare. By enacting this change, we’ve also strengthened our community colleges and helped to ensure that we have the most highly skilled and effective workforce in the world in the coming years.” The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act was included in the Reconciliation Act of 2010 that was approved by the House on a vote of 220 to 211. This legislation will now be sent to President Obama for his signature. SAFRA will change the way the nation’s student loan system works. Whereas in the past, the federal government guaranteed student loans offered by private lenders – essentially guaranteeing the lenders large profits and paying for their losses – the federal government will now originate all new loans through its Direct Loan program and promote competition among private lenders for the contracts to collect the interest and principal payments on those loans.. This change in the federal student loan system will save the federal government $61 billion over the next 10 years and make student loans more manageable for borrowers to repay. The new law uses those savings to expand access to an affordable college education for millions of American students (by increasing the maximum size of Pell Grants) and to strengthen our nation’s community colleges.“Banks have made out like bandits in recent years,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Banks made tons of money by making irresponsible loans and selling them off, and then when the housing bubble collapsed, the American taxpayers had to spend billions of dollars to bail them out and rescue the economy.”"I see no reason that the federal government should keep paying private lenders billions of dollars so they can make huge profits on no-risk deals,” Congressman Doyle added. “This reform is long past due.” Private lenders and banks will still have a role in servicing all federal student loans, which will guarantee borrowers high-quality customer services, maintain jobs in the private sector, and even protect jobs from being shipped overseas. Direct government loans, unlike loans made by banks, must be serviced by U.S. workers. The federal government is already funding 88 percent of all federal student loan volume, between loans that are already lent to students directly through the government and an emergency aid program student lenders have relied on since the credit crisis in 2008. The budget resolution passed by the House and Senate budget committees last year instructed Congress to use reconciliation – which requires a simple up or down vote – to pass health insurance and student loan reforms that reduce the deficit by $1 billion over five years. This student loan reform meets that requirement – it is fully paid for and reduces the deficit by at least $10 billion over 10 years. Altogether, the student loan reform and health reform bills reduce the deficit by $143 billion over 10 years.Click here for more information of SAFRA, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility ActClick here to see how SAFRA, the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act, will affect Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District Student Loan Reform: What's In It For YouMyths vs. Facts about the Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act ###
03.21.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle joined a majority of Members of the House of Representatives in voting to approve a landmark health care reform bill. “I believe that this legislation will go a long way toward making quality health insurance more affordable for all Americans – and do it without busting the federal budget,” Congressman Doyle said tonight. “The bill will end insurance industry practices like discriminating on the basis of pre-existing conditions, dropping coverage when a policy-holder becomes seriously ill, and capping annual and life-time benefits,” Congressman Doyle observed. “It will extend health insurance coverage to 30 million Americans who are currently uninsured and provide tax credits to help millions of Americans pay for health insurance. It will close the Medicare prescription drug donut hole and extend the solvency of the Medicare Trust Fund. And it will increase competition in the health insurance industry – and bring down consumer costs – by creating a health insurance exchange where insurance companies will have to compete for your premium dollars.” On November 7, 2009, Congressman Doyle voted with a majority in the House to pass legislation that would make health care more affordable for many Americans; improve the quality of health care that we receive; give many of us more choices of doctors, hospitals, and insurance plans than we have now; and strengthen Medicare (H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act). On December 24, 2009, the Senate passed similar legislation (H.R. 3590, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act). On March 21, 2010, the House – with Congressman Doyle’s support – approved both the Senate bill and a separate bill making important amendments to it. The original Senate bill will be forwarded to the President for his signature. The House amendments (H.R. 4872, the Reconciliation Act of 2010) now go to the Senate for final approval.Click here for a summary of what the bill will doClick here for information on how the bill will affect residents of Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District.Click here for information on the impact of the health care reform legislation on the federal budgetClick here for information on the changes that were made to the Senate-passed billClick here for other information about the health care reform legislationClick here for information on why doing nothing would cost us much more. ###
03.19.2010	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle announced today that he had requested that federal funding for a number of initiatives in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District be included in the appropriations bill for Fiscal Year 2011. Congressman Doyle submitted the following requests for federal funding to the House Appropriations Committee, the House committee that writes the annual bills that provide funding for all of the federal government’s operations. These requests are broken down by Appropriations bill. All of these requests are being reviewed by the House Appropriations Committee and the appropriate federal department or agency. There is no guarantee that any of these project requests will be funded.Fiscal Year 2011 Agriculture Appropriations Bill Requests Allegheny County Economic Development – Allegheny Grows Healthy Food for Our Communities 425 Sixth Avenue Suite 800 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $50,000 -- Funding will go towards community based urban agricultural activity, nutritional education, sustainable management of vacant land, and business district streetscape improvements through greening. Specifically, funding will go to support three existing gardens, develop the Neediest Communities' Farm-to-Table arm of the program, the Farm-to-Table New Community Gardens project, and the Allegheny Together Healthy Food Education Project. Ultimately this is a program to encourage access to safe, healthy food. Allegheny County Economic Development – Allegheny Grows – FIT Urban Food Enterprise (FIFE) 425 Sixth Avenue Suite 800 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $95,000 -- Funding will go towards the Fit Urban Food Enterprise, an urban horticulture hub, which will consist of a large-scale urban farm, planting a wide variety of vegetables and herbs in raised beds, utilizing intensive planting techniques and all-organic methods of growing, selling produce to local restaurants, and managing an on-site farmer's market. This program addresses long-term local food security issues. The Urban Redevelopment Authority – Larimer Stabilization 200 Ross Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $285,000 – Funding would go towards the redevelopment of the Larimer neighborhood. Additionally, this project will address quality of life issues for existing residents through vacant lot cleaning and urban farming initiatives. Planning should be complete by the fall of 2010, and the community is actively working with the Penn State Extension on multiple urban farming and greening initiatives. The URA has been supporting this strategy of planning for the future while addressing the current vacancy through assistance with acquisition and funding portions of the greening and planning. University of Pittsburgh -- Strategic Investment in America’s Farms Institute for Entrepreneurial Excellence 230 South Bouquet Street, 1800 WWPH Pittsburgh, PA 15260 $968,000 -- Funding would be used to create a model agricultural program to assist farmers (in Western Pennsylvania) to use entrepreneurial principles, advanced technologies, new innovative and sustainable agricultural production methods and streamline supply chain models to produce healthy, safe and economically-sustainable agricultural food products. Fiscal Year 2011 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill Requests Allegheny County Department of Emergency Services – Visualization Services 400 N. Lexington Street Pittsburgh, PA 15208 $255,000 -- Funding is requested to enhance surveillance of Allegheny County Office buildings for infrastructure protection. These would be networked into the monitoring system so that they could be accessed by the 9-1-1 center 24/7. The Networked system will feature a map-based interface software program and supporting software to include data from video surveillance systems, various sensing devices, and communications systems into a multi-user system. This Visual Monitoring System will provide a complete open, real-time data display. Women’s Center and Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh – Children’s Advocacy and Counseling Program P.O. Box 9024 Pittsburgh, PA 15224 $250,000 -- Funding would go towards the Women's Center and Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh's Child Advocacy and Counseling Program, with services including counseling programs, summer camps, and safe space initiatives. Specifically, this funding will allow WC&S to resurface the playground, cultivate child counseling programs and continue daycare services for children of domestic violence victims, keeping them safe and providing them with as close an atmosphere to home as possible. The Borough of Mount Oliver – Technology Upgrades 150 Brownsville Road Mount Oliver, PA 15210 $56,800 – Funding would be used to upgrade the police department of Mount Oliver’s technology needs. These upgrades include a new police department records management and reporting system, new computer systems, monitors, police radio sets, cameras, laptop computers, and a multi-purpose copier/printer/fax/scanner. The department’s current equipment is outdated, slow, inefficient and frequently down for repairs. Equipment problems pose safety hazards for officers and hamper efforts to effectively fight crime. Bellevue Borough -- Law Enforcement Technology Advancements 537 Bayne Avenue Bellevue, PA 15202 $60,000 – Funding would be used within the Bellevue Police Department to upgrade and enhance the technology of the department. This will include but is not limited to: upgrading of department computer workstations, mobile in-car laptop computers, in-car camera systems, and forensic digital camera. This funding will also be used to assist the department in obtaining a new Records Management System so that the Bellevue Department is able to communicate with the Ross Township and Shaler Township Police Departments to enhance the safety network. Borough of Homestead – Police Cameras 1705 Maple Street Homestead, PA 15120 $250,000 – Funding would go towards cameras along the waterfront, to better allow Homestead police officers to serve the community. These cameras will better assist the Police Department to keep the neighborhood safe and discourage crime, while attracting more business to the region. Pittsburgh TASK – Mobilizing Male Mentors Project 5707 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $100,000 – Funding would go towards the recruitment and training of a network young adult males, to mentor and support the civic leadership development of at-risk teen-aged males in twelve City of Pittsburgh neighborhoods. Trained mentors would work with teens to establish neighborhood youth civic associations and block-watch groups, to counteract the presence of risk factors associated with social instability such as violence or crime. KidsVoice – Child Advocacy Program Frick Building, 437 Grant Street Suite 700 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $500,000 – Funding would be used to continue KidsVoice’s advocacy programs as the sole provider of child advocacy services in the child welfare system of Allegheny County. Each year, KidsVoice represents nearly 5,000 abused, neglected, and at-risk children. By assigning both an attorney and a social service professional to each child, KidsVoice draws upon the combined expertise and training of professional staff from different disciplines to develop uniquely tailored recommendations regarding which placement and services might create better possibilities of success for each child and family. Federal funding for this organization will support programs that are offered to abused and neglected children in Allegheny County. Safety-Kids -- The Stand Together Act Responsibly (S.T.A.R.) Project 10460 Frankstown Road Pittsburgh, PA 15235 $100,000 – Funding would go towards an anti-violence program run by the experts at Safety-Kids that helps to make children, schools and our communities safer. Funding is sought to provide additional personal safety programs for children and parenting seminars for adults, expand curriculum and other educational materials; provide training to law enforcement and teachers in safety issues, and build awareness about personal safety for children. Duquesne University – Interdisciplinary Cyber Security Research and Supercomputing Initiative 600 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15282 $1.5 million -- Funding would be used for the creation of a series of programs (computer simulation and workshops) aimed at preparing small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) for possible intrusions into the company’s technological infrastructure. This initiative is aimed at supporting individual businesses, and the members of the supply chain with emphasis on those companies supporting the DoD. This project will improve the security of the small businesses in a lasting, ongoing way. Language Request Carnegie Mellon University -- Next Generation Space Robotics 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Language -- "NASA shall establish a research initiative for fundamental technology development in space-related robotics within the Space Technology Program. This initiative should foster collaboration linking one or more NASA labs with leading university-based robotics research centers in order to facilitate technology development and graduate education necessary to prepare a new generation of space robotics technical talent." Investment in space robotics has the potential to both advance U.S. mission capability and position the nation to be a leader in a critical component of the growing international space industry. The federal investment will both accelerate technologies vital to NASA and strengthen a vital component of both the defense and space industrial base. Fiscal Year 2011 Defense Appropriations Bill Requests Airlift Research Foundation 5840 Ellsworth Avenue, Suite 304 Pittsburgh, PA 15232 $2 million – The Airlift Research Foundation funds research projects that will directly impact recovery following blast-related injury and will ultimately improve either the opportunity to return to active duty or quality of life after discharge. Airlift solicits research applications specific to extremity trauma to identify translational research that will accelerate the recovery of blast-related victims. Additionally, Airlift promotes public awareness of the need for additional research in the area of extremity trauma by putting a human face on the scientific facts. Through funding research in traumatic orthopaedics, improved treatment outcomes and decreased complications during recovery from blast injuries will result in greater return to duty rates, improved quality of life after service, quicker recovery from injury, and less money needed for long term care and rehabilitation in military hospital systems. The research funded by the Airlift Research Foundation will not only benefit the military community: it will also benefit civilian populations affected by war, violence, and/or traumatic accidents. Allegheny County Department of Emergency Services 400 North Lexington Street, Suite 200 Pittsburgh, PA 15208 $2.5 million – This program provides a critical component of meeting the Army’s missions of homeland defense and civil support. This initiative partners with state and local emergency responders to develop enhanced capabilities and technologies. Project National Shield focuses on DOD's ability to interact with multiple jurisdictions, including at the State and local level. A significant benefit to DOD of this component of the program is that it represents the actual full deployment of a critical network that will allow local Emergency Management personnel and first responders at the County level, State EMA and Guard assets to communicate as well as provide for a tie into the Army’s Emergency Operations Center at Picatinny Arsenal. The program is deploying technologies in the field to refine and develop an enterprise architecture for Army communications. The Army will also be able to test and evaluate tying multiple regional jurisdictions into their overall enterprise architecture. The benefit to the local community of this program is significant. As a result of the Army developing an enterprise architecture to deal with State and Local entities, the Army is actually deploying enhanced capabilities into the local emergency management community, thereby increasing the local first responder’s ability to deal with events. This increased public safety capability also provides an ancillary benefit on the local economic development side. Companies that are looking for new locations, especially IT related companies, use public safety preparedness as one of their factors in site selection. The capabilities developed by this program could have non-DOD benefits by transitioning deployed assets to the local communities at the conclusion of the research and development phase activities of the Army. University of Pittsburgh Department of Biomedical Informatics UPMC Cancer Pavilion, Rm. 305 5150 Centre Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15232 $2 million – This program will catalyze faster cures and more meaningful therapies and preventative measures for military personnel with cancer. More importantly, this program will develop tools to aid the military in biosurveillance and bioterrorism threat detection. Consequently, this project will lead to the formation of licensable technology that will stimulate new jobs and companies that will benefit both the scientific and military missions of our country. Catalyst Connection 2000 Technology Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2.5 million – The Small Manufacturers Defense Initiative (SMDI) was developed to create a more efficient and streamlined procurement process for the U.S. military in order to more rapidly meet their manufacturing demands. By utilizing the unique capabilities of Catalyst Connection and the Pennsylvania IRC network, SMDI delivers a more cost-effective and efficient procurement systems for prototyped parts. Based on past performance and metrics, SMDI Phase II is projected to generate $5 million in additional DoD revenue (ARDEC direct orders and Army subcontracts) which will result in 142 Pennsylvania jobs created and/or retained. Summary of SMDI value to DoD (ARDEC): Quick and efficient procurement of manufacturing services from pre-qualified PA suppliers Dynamic, highly automated, request for quote (RFQ) process management for ARDEC procurement Hands on process support ensuring high quality, on-time delivery of prototyped parts for ARDEC Single point-of-contact for ARDEC to almost 200 qualified, committed manufacturing suppliers Cost effective and secured internet supply chain technology expedites RFQs: 3 day quote turn-around on RFQs Supply performance metrics ensures accountability CTC 425 6th Avenue Regional Enterprise Tower, Suite 2850 Pittsburgh, PA 15219-1819 $5 million – Funding is needed to develop safeguards against a terrorist EMP attack. It is possible to construct an EMP device for less than $400 that could cause major disruption of critical first responder capabilities. A coordinated attack could cause enough damage to “knock-out” an entire city’s computer devices and power grid. This program will develop and demonstrate ways to protect these critical resources against such an attack. Pennsylvania Air National Guard Pittsburgh International Airport 300 Tanker Road #4201 Coraopolis, PA 15108 USA $8.3 million – Without ASLS funding the Air National Guard Air Refueling Wings, which have essentially the same mission requirements as the active Air Force Refueling Wings, must rely almost exclusively on in-aircraft training in the KC-135 Supertanker. This reliance on the actual aircraft for almost all ANG training is as inefficient as it is expensive. Many training tasks can’t be conducted in the actual aircraft, and Guardsmen cannot properly rehearse for overseas deployments. Maintenance or weather issues often prevent training from taking place at all when Guardsmen are on-duty. Aircraft used in training are not available for refueling missions, and an overreliance on training dramatically shortens aircraft useful life. All of these issues are addressed by deployment of the Advanced Squadron Level Simulators. The economic benefit of funding the ASLS program is compelling for both the Air National Guard and the American taxpayer. At 3,000 flight training hours per year and a direct operating cost of $8,000 per flight hour, KC-135 training at each ANG Superwing annually costs approximately $24,000,000. By off-loading only 40% of the training hours out of the aircraft into the ASLS, the ANG can realize savings on each ASLS deployed of almost $10 million per year. This is an impressive rate of return on a capital investment of only $4 million per unit. Savings for the U.S. taxpayer on the ASLS program will be hundreds of millions of dollars over the anticipated 10 year remaining useful life of the ANG KC-135s. Funding and deployment of the ASLS also allow the Air National Guard to achieve Air Force Energy Management Directive 90-17, dated July 16, 2009. This Directive by the Secretary of the Air Force mandates energy conservation in part by migrating training from the actual aircraft to Aircrew Training Devices. Compliance of the Directive by the Air National Guard is mandatory, and it cannot be achieved without deployment of the ASLS. DSN Innovation 2000 Technology Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $6.2 Million – HIPER uses DSN Innovations technology to deliver: 1) more rapid RESET turnarounds, particularly when applying product improvements; 2) integrated producibility reviews using standardized 3D models and collaborative methodology; 3) reduced risk and more efficient manufacturing via a more informed, and collaborative methodology; 3) reduced risk and more efficient manufacturing via a more informed, more responsive, and more reliable supplier network; and 4) reduced costs and time to reverse engineer and manufacture quality parts. It is a model that has applicability across all of Army Materiel Command. This project will save taxpayer dollars, make the RESET process more efficient and cost-effective and will ensure that our men and women in uniform have the weapons they need, when they need them. Idea Foundry 4551 Forbes Avenue Suite 200 Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $1.5 million – Idea Foundry will apply its Technology Transfer and Transition Accelerator Program to assist the Office of Technology Transfer and Transition in its efforts to achieve success in the Department of Defense’s technology transfer, transition, and acquisition activities. It will do so by 1) commercializing medical device technologies funded and developed through Department of Defense sponsored grants and 2) introducing new, privately-funded technologies to the Department of Defense that can save lives as well as taxpayer dollars. On December 10, 2009, Idea Foundry met with senior officials of the Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center (TATRC), one of the nation’s defense laboratories, who expressed multiple ways the acceleration program could benefit TATRC’s programs. Currently, TATRC has over 500 funded technologies that need to be evaluated and their commercialization accelerated. Idea Foundry, working as a Partnership Intermediary with the DoD network of national laboratories, will utilize the successful Program to review the Department’s portfolio of under-commercialized medical device technologies, selecting the devices with the highest potential to benefit from the Program, and developing them into viable job-producing businesses. In order to successfully transfer and transition these technologies, Idea Foundry will utilize the knowledge gained through its technology transfer partnerships with Pennsylvania-based medical health systems and research institutions such as West Penn Allegheny Health System and the University of Pittsburgh. As the technologies are transferred to the private sector, an essential component of the process will be ensuring the transition of the technology back to the DoD from the private sector, providing life saving technologies for the nation’s fighting forces and securing a return on investment of the original research grants. Value of life and quality of life cannot be calculated, but estimates of cost to equip and train a war fighter are substantial. One life spared or repaired through these technologies make this request a valuable use of taxpayer funds. Idea Foundry has already commercialized technologies that are saving multiple lives, and through this request many lives are potentially affected. Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Commercialization Center 2000 Technology Drive Pittsburgh, PA $2 million –The US Air Force has worked previously with the Center to identify promising nanomaterials research which can be of benefit the Air Force warfighter. This information has been compiled in a Technology Roadmap, which is on the Center’s web site; www.pananocenter.org. The Center uses this roadmap to screen the best of these innovative ideas from researchers and start-up companies to quickly develop prototype products using nanotechnology to meet Air Force needs. In many cases the products have dual-use applications, allowing the small companies to more successfully transition to full scale manufacturing. The Center’s role, as supported by this request, is to accelerate this process, and thereby provide a more efficient means of commercializing advanced materials technologies for DOD needs. This mission is currently not supported by the high technology investment marketplace, and so taxpayer funds provide the dual benefits of getting prototype products to the warfighter faster, while supporting innovation and small high technology company growth in Pennsylvania and the nation. Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative, Inc. (PTEI) 450 Technology Drive, Suite 211 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $5 million – The overall goal of regenerative medicine is to restore tissue and organ function lost as a result of injury, aging, and disease. Regenerative medicine will eventually open the door to battling crippling diseases like diabetes, Parkinson’s, heart failure and the impacts of traumatic injury. The Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative serves as a catalyst assisting in translating research into clinical impact through collaborative initiatives. PTEI has built a series of civilian/military research programs. The strategy is to determine the key problems faced by the military and perform fundamental research that would lay the foundation for clinical translation. The outcomes from the research would be applicable to the civilian population as well. The ARM program, along with the related National Tissue Engineering Center program and the Soldier Wound Healing Program, is being used to innovate new approaches to the most difficult problems in regeneration of the musculoskeletal system. Pittsburgh Gateways, Corporation 4514 Plummer Street Pittsburgh, PA 15201 $2.2 million – FirstLink, the Department of Defense National Center of Excellence for First Responder Technology Transfer, provides technical assistance to the Office of the Secretary of Defense’s (OSD) Office of Technology Transition (OTT). The FirstLink program has been successful in not only meeting its DoD metrics for technology transfer but has exceeded them. Since program inception, FirstLink has facilitated over 200 DoD transfer metrics with a ROI to the Federal Government of more than $5 million and facilitated the identification of over $7 million in funding to firms providing technologies who meet DoD and First Responder needs.Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill Requests U.S. Army Corps of Engineers – Allegheny River O&M Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $11.456 million -- Funding would be used to operate and maintain the locks and dams in the Pittsburgh District, as well as to address critical deferred maintenance. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers -- Monongahela River (PA) Operations & Maintenance Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $22.461 million -- Funding would be used to operate and maintain the locks and dams in the Pittsburgh District, as well as to address critical deferred maintenance. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers -- Upper Ohio River & Tributaries Technology Pilot Program Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $3.1 million—Funding would be used for the planning and deployment of about 20 hubs to transmit and receive both Automatic Identification System and Wireless Broadband technologies along the Upper Ohio River U.S. Army Corps of Engineers -- The Regent Square Gateway Project Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $1,875,000 -- Funding would be used to construct the Regent Square Gateway Project, a highly visible demonstration site featuring an energy dissipation structure, stream bank stabilization, and rebuilding of the major stream culvert outfall in the heart of the Nine Mile Run watershed. The project would demonstrate a variety of approaches to stormwater management. Turtle Creek Basin Evaluation Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $100,000 – Funding would be used to study the Turtle Creek Watershed in order to make improvements in flood damage reduction, stream bank protection, storm water management and watershed management, ultimately bringing communities together to make sound decisions that will reduce flood damage and improve water quality. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers -- Emsworth Dam Rehabilitation Project Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $11.5 million -- Funding would be used for emergency repairs to the Emsworth Dams, which are in a progressive state of failure. Specifically, the requested funding would permit analysis of alternative future conditions at the projects, completion of environmental studies, formulation of the recommended alternative, and preparation of the draft feasibility report. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers -- Lower Monongahela Improvement Project, Locks and Dams 2, 3, &4. Wm. S. Moorehead Fed. Bldg., 1000 Liberty Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $52 million - This funding would be used for construction of the River Wall approaches to the first replacement lock, advertise and award the construction contract for the first replacement lock, begin construction of the Port Perry bridge relocation, and complete municipal utility outfall relocations in pool 2. ACTION Housing -- Pittsburgh Green House 425 Sixth Avenue, Suite 950 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $150,000 – Funding would be used to support operational expenses for the Pittsburgh Green House Program, run through ACTION-Housing. The Pittsburgh Green House will serve as a training facility for Weatherization Service Contractors and Energy Outreach Educators, as well as an educational facility where the general public can gain knowledge about making their homes more energy and water efficient and healthier. Funding would be used for outreach, education materials, training equipment and materials. Pittsburgh Gateways Corporation – Pittsburgh Energy Innovation Training and Development Center 4514 Plummer St. Pittsburgh, PA 15201 $5 million -- Funding would go towards the creation of a Training and Development Center that will be a nationally unique, LEED Gold certified center for the creation of sustainable jobs. There is strong potential for new job creation in southwestern Pennsylvania through the commercialization of innovations resulting from local research efforts. Such a campus will meet the increasing demand for a curriculum of workforce training programs that has been developed for career paths in sustainable industry sectors. This Center will produce more than 700 sustainable energy jobs per year beginning in 2011. Pittsburgh Allegheny County Thermal, Ltd./Allegheny County -- Infrastructure Upgrades: Safety & Energy Efficient Steam 429 Fourth Avenue Suite 896 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1 million – Funding would be used to improve the existing steam heating infrastructure system in the City of Pittsburgh. The system provides steam heat to hundreds of businesses, homes, and government buildings in downtown Pittsburgh. Improvements will maintain the current steam heat delivery with significantly reduced energy input. Specifically, upgrades will reduce the amount of natural gas required to produce heat and eliminate 6,323 tons of carbon dioxide emissions. Reducing the amount of gas used will also reduce consumers’ energy costs. Finally, upgrades will assure public safety by preventing highly pressurized underground pipes from exploding and destroying city streets and buildings above. Allegheny County Sanitation Authority -- Four Mile Run Stream Daylighting Project 3300 Preble Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15233 $1 million – Funding will go towards the effort to reduce wet weather overflows by using innovative green infrastructure technologies. Is it estimated that using traditional methods to combat combined sewer overflows and elimination of sanitary sewer overflows could cost multiple billions of dollars. However, green approaches provide a number of benefits to urban communities such as improved appearance, infrastructure renewal, air quality and climate benefits, health, and economic benefits. Idea Foundry, Inc. -- Technology Transfer Commercialization Program 4551 Forbes Avenue, Suite 200 Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $300,000 – Funding will be used to invest seed capital in high-tech start-ups and to provide them with hands-on business creation services. These companies will develop technologies explicitly to promote energy efficiencies, environmental stewardship, and worker safety in the Pennsylvania’s mining industry. Tax payers will directly benefit from Idea Foundry’s efforts through job growth, environmental improvements, energy independence, worker safety, and increased economic stability. Allegheny County – Hybrid Cars Room 119 Courthouse 436 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1,325,000 – Funding would go towards the purchase of hybrid fleets for the county to publicly demonstrate the efficacy of various lower-emission fuel technologies and promote their adoption. Specifically, the County will migrate 6-cylinder vehicles to 4-cylinder vehicles where necessary, convert 25 light trucks to compressed natural gas, shift 25 vehicles to hybrids, shift 25 vehicles to zip cars, and convert 25 heavy trucks to diesel-electric hybrids or bio-diesel fuel.Fiscal Year 2011 Financial Services Appropriations Bill Requests Innovation Works -- Energy Innovation Center 2000 Technology Drive Suite 250 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $500,000 – Funding will go towards the commercialization of high-potential energy-related technology from companies and research institutions including Carnegie Mellon University, the University of Pittsburgh, and the Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL). Federal dollars would be used to assist entrepreneurs in launching new energy-related start-ups, commercializing energy-related research, and accelerating next-generation energy solutions into the marketplace. The Energy Innovation Center will leverage the Pittsburgh region’s strengths in energy-related technology and early-stage commercialization, and will help to create a significant number of high-paying, family-sustaining jobs and commercialize next-generation energy technology for the United States that is robust, reliable, cost effective and environmentally friendly. Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse -- Tech Belt Biosciences Initiative 100 Technology Drive, Suite 400 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $800,000 – Funding would be used to create a Tech Belt partnership among local world-class institutions conducting $1 billion in NIH research and more than 800 fast-growing local life sciences companies. This initiative would create or retain 20-60 jobs in the region and establish a replicable model for creating mega-regions that can generate far more economic growth than any city or state can do alone. Carnegie Mellon University -- Carnegie Mellon Manufacturing Accelerator 5000 Forbes Ave. 4th Floor, Warner Hall Pittsburgh, PA 15312 $3,000,000 -- Funding would go towards the establishment of a collaborative, team-oriented program to apply emerging information and technology research to improve the competitiveness of small and medium sized regional manufacturers. The goal of the project would be to improve the ability of regional companies to enter and remain competitive in the global market by focusing on three areas: new product design development, process improvements, and the utilization of high impact computing. Bringing the best and brightest researchers together with industry in projects that integrate engineering, design and computing promises to improve the competitiveness of western Pennsylvania’s manufacturing base, attract to the region existing IT firms interested in applying their technologies to manufacturing, and accelerate collaborative innovation resulting in further spinoff companies.Fiscal Year 2011 Interior and Environment Appropriations Bill Requests The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority -- Critical Pipe Inspection Program Penn Liberty Plaza 1 1200 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $770,000 -- Funding will go towards the Critical Pipe Inspection Program (CPIP), which will enable The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority to locate and prevent the collapse of critical pipeline under roadways which can cost the city millions of dollars in repairs and lead to a serious public safety hazard. The deployment of Multi Sensor Inspection in underground pipe infrastructure will demonstrate the benefit of a predictive assessment and will enable more effective management of assets to save cities money and prevent sinkholes. Also, the data collected from the CPIP will create a model that can be replicated in the future for municipalities throughout the country. Steel Industry Heritage Corporation—Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area The Bost Building 623 East 8th Avenue Homestead, PA 15120 $1 million –Funding will help continue the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area’s operation and programs. Since its designation, Rivers of Steel has raised more than $40 million in direct match to the federal funds received under the NHA program. These funds have generated more than $75 million in local spending on historic preservation projects, riverfront and trail projects, educational and traditional arts programs, museum collections and interpretation. In all, more than 250 projects throughout the seven regions have received funding from Rivers of Steel, resulting in increased tourism, job creation, additional revenue for local governments, and an improved quality of life in many of Southwestern Pennsylvania’s older industrial communities. Allegheny County Sanitation Authority – Green Sewer Initiative 3300 Preble Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15233 $4 million -- Funding will be used for the planning and implementation of a pilot overflow control strategy of utilizing green technologies in up to three combined sewersheds within the City of Pittsburgh. This project will assist the region greatly in reducing wet weather overflows by using innovative green infrastructure technologies. Using traditional methods it is estimated that the control of combined sewer overflows and elimination of sanitary sewer overflows will cost multiple billions of dollars. Green approaches provide a number of benefits to urban communities such as improved appearance, infrastructure renewal, air quality and climate benefits, health, and economic benefits. The River Alert Information Network (RAIN) – Early Warning System 700 River Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $1,650,000 – Funding will be used for the acquisition of raw water monitoring equipment to establish an early warning system (EWS) on the major rivers of Western Pennsylvania. Continuous real-time monitoring with advanced alerts and alarms will occur at strategically located member water utilities. RAIN has already established 12 functioning monitoring sites with great success, i.e. ensured river quality followed state regulations, provided immediate notification to downstream users regarding spills, improved communication on a multi-state basis to improve water quality, provided information and tools to aid water suppliers in decision making, etc. Ohio River Valley Water Sanitation Commission (ORSANCO) -- Ohio River Watershed Pollution Reduction Program 5735 Kellogg Avenue Cincinnati , OH 45228 $2 million -- Funding will continue ORSANCO’s Watershed Pollution Reduction Program that identifies, isolates, and responds to pollutants that contaminate the Ohio River watershed (such as bacteria, dioxin, PCBs, chlordane, atrazine, and nutrients) which are of substantial importance to the public health, regional ecosystem balance, and the nation’s management of environmental problems. Fiscal Year 2011 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Bill Requests Heritage Community Initiatives -- Heritage Community After School Partnership Program 820 Braddock Ave Braddock, PA 15104 $500,000 – Funding will be used to cover operating costs of the Heritage Community After School Partnership Program providing a safe, high-quality, educational after school/out-of-school time program for low income families and students grades K-8 in Braddock, PA and surrounding communities. Quality education prepares children and future workforce for success. Research studies prove that academically prepared children are more likely to graduate from high school, earn a higher education degree, and retain good jobs having higher earnings. Pittsburgh Promise -- STEM Literacy Scholarship Initiative 1901 Centre Avenue, Suite 204 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $500,000 -- Funding would be used to incentivize students to pursue post secondary education in STEM fields. Specifically, The Promise will use federal funding to provide scholarships to students that excel in STEM education courses in the Pittsburgh Public Schools. Students can use the money to attend any institution of higher education within the Commonwealth. Acknowledging the importance of this program, the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) has pledged to match every federal dollar by 67 percent. Thus, a $500,000 appropriation from the federal government will generate an additional $335,000 from UPMC. Account Specified: FIE Previous Funding: None PHASE 4 Learning Centers, Inc. -- Curriculum and Technology Upgrade Century III Mall, Suite 930 3075 Clairton Road Pittsburgh, PA 15123 $200,000 – Funding would be used to electronically link existing Learning Centers in East Liberty and beyond. At two centers within the 14th Congressional District, PHASE 4 Learning Centers provide an alternative learning option to at-risks and re-entry (young people who have dropped out and now want a high school diploma) students. Working in partnership with the students’ home districts, at a Middle States Commission on Secondary Schools accredited facility, these students earn the credits they need to graduate from high school. By adding Virtual Private Network, PHASE 4 could link all of the Learning Center sites. That linkage would provide improved student services at all levels: access to student records, tracking of student progress and follow-up activities with students. Squirrel Hill Health Center -- Tomorrow’s Healthcare 200 JHF Drive, Lower Level Pittsburgh, PA 15217 $250,000 -- Funding would go towards a web-based platform that was built on the Pittsburgh Regional Health Initiative’s nationally renowned Lean improvement methodology, Perfecting Patient Care (PPC). Tested for over ten years, PPC has been taught to over 3,000 healthcare workers in over 20 states and has demonstrated significant improvements and cost-savings in reducing infections, falls, inductions, and many other quality initiatives. Tomorrow’s Healthcare streamlines, standardizes, and simplifies the way entire organizations and practices engage in Quality Improvement by combining the following into a single site for the first time: QI methodology, tools and templates; dynamic learning modules and content; and a human resource management system. Focus on Renewal (Father. Ryan Arts Center/McKees Rocks) -- Computer Graphics Lab/Classroom 701 Chartiers Avenue McKees Rocks, PA 15136 $50,000 – Funds would go towards computer graphics lab in the Father Ryan Arts Center that will be comprised of 12 wide-screen Macintosh computers, printers/scanners and Adobe software, along with a server and the required peripherals. With the proper technology, the Father Ryan Arts Center can outfit the computer lab with the necessary computer systems and software to provide photography, film/new media, web development and digital illustration courses. Once fully operational, the lab will be the site of regularly scheduled graphics design courses. With computer technology and software, the Father Ryan Arts Center will provide new opportunities for local children and youth to experience different methods of learning outside of the traditional classroom that will encourage emotional growth, motivation and engagement. Greater Pittsburgh Literacy Council – Program Support 100 Sheridan Sq., 4th Fl Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $500,000 – Funding will go towards the men, women and families who currently receive free instruction in reading, writing, math, English as a Second Language, GED preparation, computers and workplace skills through the Literacy Council’s (GPLC) programs. In addition to the over 500 volunteers trained to tutor adult learners, GPLC also offers classes led by professional instructors. GPLC will serve over 6,200 students throughout Allegheny County during Program Year 2011. Pittsburgh Disability Employment Project for Freedom 1323 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $100,000 -- Funding is requested to update and enhance the current program by updating hardware and software, providing a resource library on disability and unemployment, holding a yearly seminar for business partners, providing professional development courses for staff, moving into a larger space, offering the class online. Carnegie Library -- Heritage Collection 4400 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $250,000 -- Funding will be used for project expenses related to the preservation, cataloging, and relocation of Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh’s historic Heritage Collection from the “Allegheny Depository” to the CLP-East Liberty branch in the City of Pittsburgh. Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh houses and maintains many significant and rich collections developed over its 110 year-old history. Because of this long history, many rare and unique materials have become part of CLP’s Heritage Collection located at the Carnegie Library Depository. Currently, most of these historic items are not accessible through the library’s online catalog system limiting the public’s ability to know that these items are available. Carnegie Science Center – Girls Math and Science Program Carnegie Science Center 4400 Forbes Ave. $306,450 -- Funding will be used to bring evidence-based science lessons and kits to girls in grades 5-8, including distance learning, interaction with active scientists, and outdoor experiences. The Girls Math and Science Program (GMSP) is committed to the elimination of barriers that discourage girls from becoming full participants in the science and technology fields. GMSP reaches at risk girls aged 11-17 to help develop them into the scientists of tomorrow. Pittsburgh AIDS Taskforce -- The Girlfriends Project (Women’s AIDS Education Awareness) 5913 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $150,000 – Funding would go towards the research evaluation of an HIV/AIDS prevention project specifically aimed at addressing the spread of HIV/AIDS among women. Support is needed to fund the evaluation of this prevention intervention in order to have the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) approve funding for the on-going use of this very effective and innovative intervention for African American women who are becoming infected with HIV/AIDS at an alarming and disproportionate rate in Pittsburgh. Eastern Area Adult Services -- Senior Center Consolidation Project 901 West Street Pittsburgh, PA 15221 $100,000 – Funding would go towards the consolidation of Eastern Area’s four senior centers. This project will demonstrate a new highly cost-effective model for the delivery of high quality senior center services and programs in a central location. Sarah Heinz House -- STEM Education Nation One Heinz Street Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $250,000 – Funding would go towards program expansion at the Sarah Heinz House (SHH), a Boys and Girls Club located on the North Side of Pittsburgh which serves over 1,100 at-risk youths each year. Specifically, the SHH will increase capacity in the following after-school programs: Education Nation, Robotics Education, and Environmental Education. Currently, these programs are operating on a waiting list. The SHH house would use funding to increase the number of classes so that all children are able to learn STEM concepts in a fun and safe setting. Jewish Association on Aging/ Squirrel Hill – Electronic Medical Records 200 JHF Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15217 $500,000 -- Funding would be used to implement an electronic medical records system throughout the continuum of care of the Jewish Association on Aging, which includes a 159-bed nursing home, two Assisted Living Facilities (62-bed and 59-bed), out-patient rehabilitation facility, hospice services, home health services, adult day services and a kosher home delivered meal program. The implementation of this system will provide a seamless transmission of medical information throughout the continuum. Parent Education & Advocacy Leadership Center (PEAL) -- Pennsylvania Family to Family Health Information Center 1119 Penn Avenue, Suite 400 Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $97,500 – Funding would go towards the PA Family to Family Health Information Center at the PEAL Center that serves families of children with special health care needs from birth to age 21, and the professionals who work with them. The program will provide information, training and support on health care, insurance and community services statewide in Pennsylvania. Manchester Bidwell -- Electronic Health Records Training Program (EHRTP) at Bidwell Training Center 1815 Metropolitan Street Pittsburgh, PA 15233 $400,000 – Funding will go towards Bidwell Training Center’s Electronic Health Records Training Program, which was launched this year to address an urgent need in Western PA to train qualified employees to work in this burgeoning and critical component of health care reform. The curriculum was designed in collaboration with the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and has received a license from the PA Department of Education to begin enrolling students. Anticipated enrollment initially was between 20 and 40 students with new classes starting every 10 months, this number will double when counting the number of the Training Center’s Medical Coders, Claim Processors and Pharmacy Technicians graduate each cycle. Angels Place -- Economic and Life Success Building 2615 Norwood Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15216 $75,000 – Funding would go towards fostering single parent career success and reduction of family welfare dependence by providing families with support services such as assistance in meeting basic needs, social work services, referrals to community resources, and parent tutoring and job placement assistance as needed. Weekly mandatory classes educate parents in order to prevent family violence. Year-round, intensive early education also is provided for the 0- to 5-year-old children of Angels’ Place’s very low-income, single parent clients, all of whom are fulltime students. There is no cost to families for any of the services. Steamfitters Local Union 449 -- Western Pennsylvania Pipe Trades Regional Training Project 1517 Woodruff Street Pittsburgh, PA 15220 $750,000 – Funding would go towards the existing Plumbers Local Union No. 27 Apprenticeship Program which focuses on teaching students about codes, drainage and water supply. This program offers training for commercial work on commercial and industrial buildings larger than three stories, including the installation of the water and gas systems in large multipurpose dwellings, such as apartment buildings or major nursing and assisted living homes. Their work in hospitals is particularly important, as they install the systems that distribute oxygen and other essential medical gases to operating, recovery and patient rooms. The Steamfitters Local Union No. 449 Apprenticeship Program focuses on areas such as refrigeration, steam heating and welding. The program offers instruction on the installation and maintenance of the pipes that carry hot water, steam, air or other liquids or gases needed for manufacturing or other industrial purposes. Coro Center for Civic Leadership – Regional Internship Center 33 Terminal Way Suite 429A Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $100,000 – Funding would be used to expand the Regional Internship Center (RIC) of Southwestern PA. The Internship Center brokers connections between internship seekers and employers throughout the region, aiding in creating a long term employment relationship. The RIC partners with over sixty educational institutions in the region, and operates as a central point where students can connect to internship opportunities. In 2009, the RIC serviced 1,000 employers, students and universities.Language: Carnegie Mellon University -- Next Generation Space Robotics 5000 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Language -- “The President and the Department have recognized the potential for gaming technology to contribute to improved educational performance. The Department should give consideration to supporting games for learning projects in making awards in the Investing in Innovation Fund. Consideration should be given to projects that advance collaboration among school districts, institutions of higher education and cultural institutions such as museums and libraries to utilize gaming technology to enhance both classroom and after school learning.” Video Game technology applied to learning has demonstrated a capacity to improve student performance. A focus on Games to Learning initiatives will provide new tools to raise student achievement scores and expand STEM outreach to more diverse populations. Reach Out and Read – National Project 56 Roland Street, Suite 100 D Boston, MA 02129 $10 million -- Reach Out and Read is a national evidence-based school readiness initiative that promotes literacy and language development in infants and preschoolers, targeting children and families living in poverty and under-performing school districts. It has been proven to be among the most effective strategies to promote early language and literacy development and school readiness: pediatricians and other healthcare providers guide and encourage parents to read aloud to their children from their earliest years of their life, and send them home from each regular checkup with a new book and a prescription to read together. Funding provided by Congress through the U.S. Department of Education has been matched by tens of millions of dollars from the private sector and state governments.Fiscal Year 2011 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Bill Requests The Urban Redevelopment Authority -- Lower Hill Development 200 Ross Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1.2 million – Funding will be used to reestablish the Mellon Arena street grid and its infrastructure as the first step to allow for self-contained development parcels. The area is intended for residential housing, street-level retail, small-scale commercial, green spaces and other mixed-use features. This will: reconnect the Hill District to downtown Pittsburgh, create development parcels, which will provide various opportunities for jobs and housing in the Pittsburgh’s new arena district; and introduce new tax revenue streams. Allegheny County -- Great Allegheny Passage: Closing the gaps in the GAP. 436 Grant Street, Room 101 Courthouse Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2.9 million – Funding will go towards completion of the network of trails in the Great Allegheny Passage, to provide a continuous 320 mile connection from the City of Pittsburgh to Washington DC. This will allow cyclists and pedestrians to use this trail recreationally and for many residents, this trail connection can be used as a alternative commuter route to the City. Communities along the Great Allegheny Passage have seen an increase in tourist and business development with additional job growth as the trail brings people from all over the country. Borough of Etna -- Dewey Street Bridge Superstructure Replacement 437 Butler Street Pittsburgh, PA 15223 $650,000 – Funding would be used to perform the required superstructure replacement and abutment repairs to restore full vehicular access to 122 homes isolated by Little Pine Creek West. The Dewey Street Bridge is an essential facility to the Borough of Etna that impacts the delivery of public health and safety services. It is located along the designated critical evacuation route for the neighborhood under emergencies. The Southwest Pennsylvania Commission (SPC) considers this project as one of its top two priority transportation projects in Allegheny County. Port Authority – Hybrid Buses 345 Sixth Avenue Pittsburgh , PA 15222 $10,000,000 – Funding would go towards the purchase of additional Hybrid buses, which have proven to reduce fuel consumption, maintenance costs and most importantly emissions to improve air quality. Mount Washington Community Development Corporation -- Workforce and Trail Development in Pittsburgh’s Newest Regional Park 301 Shiloh Street Pittsburgh, PA 15211 $99,900 – Funding would go towards the trail development at the Grand View Scenic Byway Park, Pittsburgh’s newest Regional Park. The Park aims to provide a sustainable economic development tool for the region while restoring a healthy native ecosystem for the benefit of the people and environment of Western Pennsylvania. Because over 1 million people visit Mount Washington every year, the Park’s Master Trail Plan, creating 19 miles of trails, can play a significant economic development role. Troy Hill Citizens -- Citizens Park Revitalization 1619 Lowrie Street Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $261,000 – Funding would go towards the redesign and revitalization of the Troy Hill Citizens Park. The park is an essential cornerstone of the community, located along a business corridor, Lowrie Street. These improvements will make the park more functional for every resident while incorporating sustainable elements. Certain safety measures will also be worked into the design, such as natural perimeters, and ADA compliant accessibility will create a comprehensive utilization of the park space. This park is a community focal point. McKees Rocks Community Development Corporation -- Miles Bryan School Lofts 711 Chartiers Avenue McKees Rocks, PA 15136 $150,000 – Funding would go towards the acquisition of a 40,000 sq ft building and the 7 acres upon which it resides. This property is a centerpiece of upper McKees Rocks and Stowe Township, and this type of reuse will drive residential and commercial development around it. Similarly, without a champion to develop the property, it will continue to be a haven for the homeless, drug abusers, and vandalism. West Homestead Community Development Corporation -- Steel Valley Residential Improvement Project 456 West Eighth Avenue West Homestead, PA 15120 $150,000 – Funding will go towards the rehabilitation of deteriorated houses, which will be offered for private sale as a way of halting neighborhood deterioration and improving the tax base. This project will also be a training opportunity for apprentices of the local union of the Greater PA Regional Council of Carpenters. Funds will be used to leverage private funds to be secured by the Remaking Cities Institute of Carnegie Mellon University. The rehabbed houses will serve as an example and impetus for additional rehabilitation in the target neighborhoods and will demonstrate community conservation and re-use. ###
03.18.2010	{Insert text}Washington, DC -- U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that the House Energy and Commerce Committee has released an estimate of how the health care reform bill currently being considered in the House would affect the residents of Pennsylvania's 14th Congressional District. "As Congress prepares to vote on this landmark bill, I wanted to make sure my constituents have the opportunity to see how it would affect them," Congressman Doyle said today."This information is now available on-line" Click here to see how the health care legislation currently being considered by the U.S. House of Representatives would affect residents of Pennsylvania's 14th Congressional District. Click here to see how the health care legislation currently being considered by the U.S. House of Representatives would affect residents of the other Congressional Districts. . "I encourage everyone in the 14th District to take a look at this analysis and then let me know what you think about this health care reform legislation," Congressman Doyle added. "I appreciate your feedback."
03.18.2010	Washington, DC -- The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office released a report this morning that concludes that the health care reform legislation currently being considered by the U.S. House of Representatives would reduce the national debt by $138 billion over the next 10 years and by $1.2 trillion over the following decade. "The American People have had legitimate concerns about the costs associated with the health care reform legislation currently being considered by the House," Congressman Doyle. "Now the official non-partisan scorekeeper has weighed in and concluded that the health care reform legislation currently being considered by the House would reduce federal deficits by $138 billion over the next 10 years and by $1.2 trillion over the next 20 years. That says to me that concerns about health care reform bankrupting the government can now be put to rest." Click here to read the Congressional Budget Office's report to Congress.
03.18.2010	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that the text of the proposed changes to the health care reform bill passed by the Senate in December is now available on-line. "Everyone who wants to read the text of the proposed changes to the Senate health care reform bill can now do so," Congressman Doyle said today. "As always, please feel free to contact me to share your thoughts on this or any other issue before Congress." The text of the bill -- as well as the text of the Senate health care reform bill it would amend - can be found on the web site of the House Rules Committee - rules.house.gov. Or you can click here to go directly to the bill text. And you can click here to go directly to the text of the Senate bill.
03.16.2010	As the April 15 tax deadline approaches, the IRS is providing free tax preparation and filing services to senior citizens, military personnel, and low-income families and individuals across the country. This assistance is available nationwide through local partners of the Internal Revenue Service’s Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program (VITA) and Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) Program. The IRS also maintains a free e-filing service for people who want to file their income tax returns on-line but who don’t want to pay a tax-preparer to do it for them.Volunteer Income Tax Assistance (VITA) Program If you are an individual and your income is less than $20,000 or a family with an income of less than $40,000, you may want to contact one of the Internal Revenue Service’s local partners to see if they can help you calculate and file your federal income tax return. Certain other households are eligible for this assistance as well. Click on the following links for more information on the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program in Western Pennsylvania: IRS partner sites in Western PA (Excel Format) Taxpayer Eligibility for Free Tax Preparation Services at Western PA Partner Sites Military personnel and their dependents are also eligible for the Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Program. The United States military operates VITA programs on its installations all over the world. It also operates the Military OneSource Tax Hotline at 1-800-730-3802 between 7 am and 11 pm ET. Military personnel can also click here to go to the Department of Defense Military OneSource web page on tax filing services. Tax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) Program The Tax Counseling for the Elderly Program provides free tax help to people aged 60 and older. Trained volunteers from non-profit organizations provide free tax counseling and basic income tax return preparation for senior citizens. Volunteers who provide tax counseling are often retired individuals associated with non-profit organizations that receive grants from the IRS. As part of the IRS-sponsored TCE Program, AARP offers the Tax-Aide counseling program at more than 7,000 sites nationwide during the filing season. Trained and certified AARP Tax-Aide volunteer counselors help people of low-to-middle income with special attention to those age 60 and older. For more information on TCE, call 1-800-829-1040. To locate the nearest AARP Tax-Aide site, call 1-888-227-7669 or visit AARP's Internet site. You need to bring the following items to a VITA or TCE site to have your tax returns prepared: • Proof of identification • Social Security Cards for you, your spouse and dependents and/or a Social Security Number verification letter issued by the Social Security Administration • Birth dates for you, your spouse and dependents on the tax return • Current year’s tax package if you received one • Wage and earning statement(s) Form W-2, W-2G, 1099-R, from all employers • Interest and dividend statements from banks (Forms 1099) • A copy of last year’s federal and state returns, if available • Bank routing numbers and account numbers for Direct Deposit • Total paid for daycare provider and the daycare provider's tax identifying number (the provider's Social Security Number or the provider's business Employer Identification Number) • To file taxes electronically on a married-filing-joint tax return, both spouses must be present to sign the required forms. For more information about any of the IRS tax assistance programs, click here to go to the IRS free tax preparation web page. IRS Free On-Line Income Tax Filing Service The IRS Free File program provides free federal income tax preparation and electronic filing for eligible taxpayers through a partnership between the Internal Revenue Service and the Free File Alliance LLC, a group of private sector tax software companies. Many companies offer free or paid state tax preparation and e-filing services. Some companies may not offer state tax preparation and e-file services for all states.Click here to go to the IRS Free File web site ###
03.03.2010	U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) has been named a Legislative Leader by the Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) for his 100 percent voting record on the HSUS 2009 Congressional scorecard – and for his leadership on legislation to stop Class B dealers from selling random-source dogs and cats for research. “I’m honored to receive this award,” Congressman Doyle said today. “The Humane Society of the United States is well-known and respected for its work to protect animals over many years. I greatly appreciate all of the Humane Society’s efforts to improve animal welfare in this country and around the world. That makes this recognition for my record on animal welfare issues vey special to me.” “We commend Representative Doyle for taking the lead in seeking to strengthen federal animal welfare policies,” said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The HSUS. “We’re lucky to have his powerful voice on behalf of the animals and the many citizens who care about their protection.” “I’m very grateful for the Humane Society of the United States’ strong support for the Pet Safety and Protection Act, which I introduced last year,” Congressman Doyle added. “The Humane Society of the United States shares my goal of ending the brutal mistreatment of dogs and cats by Class B dealers and the illegal and fraudulent sale of family pets to Class B dealers by ‘random sources” for use in animal research.” The Pet Safety and Protection Act (H.R. 3907), would prohibit the use of dogs and cats procured from USDA-licensed Class B animal dealers for research. Its goal is to prevent the gross mistreatment of animals by Class B dealers and to prevent family pets from being sold for laboratory experiments and research. Most scientists now agree that dogs and cats acquired from random source dealers are not needed for research. The National Academy of Sciences recently concluded, for example, that there is “no scientific need for Class B dealers to supply dogs and cats for NIH funded research.” The Humane Society of the United States is the nation's largest animal protection organization. It was established more than 50 years ago, and now has more than 11 million members, including 30,000 in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. Every year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund compiles a federal Humane Scorecard to provide a snapshot of animal protection issues considered by the U.S. Congress and give animal advocates a tool to assess the performance of their Senators and Representatives. The scorecard tracks key votes as well as co-sponsorship of important pro-animal bills and signing an annual letter seeking funds needed to enforce key animal welfare laws. ###
01.14.2010	
01.12.2010	Washington, DC – January 12, 2010 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) gave the following speech this morning as keynote speaker at the First Annual World’s Fair Use Day: Good morning. I want to thank probably Gigi Sohn for the warm introduction. Gigi and the crew at Public Knowledge do a great job of educating the public about the importance of a balanced copyright policy and an open internet. She’s not only a regular witness to our hearings in the Energy and Commerce Committee, she’s someone we look to hear from on these issues. I'm pleased to be here at the Newseum today to join with you in celebration of World Fair Use Day. And I’m especially thankful for the sponsorship from the Andy Warhol Foundation for the Visual Arts. You can imagine, if Warhol was prohibited from using Brillo boxes or Campbell Soup cans as subjects for his paintings, then we wouldn’t know Andy Warhol today, nor would we have the fantastic Andy Warhol Museum that the Foundation started in Pittsburgh’s North Shore. You must see it if you haven’t been. So picture a Congressional hearing. Dozens of members of Congress. A handful of witnesses. Lobbyists and members of the public in the audience. The topic was the future of music and radio. A few days before, my legislative director had come across a constituent of mine whose album was making year-end top 10 lists in magazines and newspapers across the country. I hadn’t heard of him, but I wasn’t alone. This guy, named Gregg Gillis, Pittsburgh biomedical engineer during the day, world-famous DJ named Girl Talk at night was mixing together beats, chords and lyrics from dozens of songs. So I went online, looked him up and heard a couple of his songs. And I have to say, it certainly wasn’t something I was used to. Some of what he was sampling, I had heard before. Others I hadn’t. But I liked it. The Chicago Tribune said that his art is “based on the notion that some sampling of copyrighted material, especially when manipulated and re-contextualized into new art, is legit and deserves to be heard.” The New York Times Magazine called him “a lawsuit waiting to happen.” So back to the Congressional hearing. I explained all this in my statement. And I said, “In one example, he blended Quincy Jones, Jimi Hendrix, Elton John, Notorious B – I – G, and Beyonce’ all in the span of 30 seconds. And while the legal indie music download site eMusic.com took his album down for possible copyright violations, he’s now flying all over the world to open concerts for Kanye and remixing for artists like Beck.” I yielded back my time, and I looked at the audience. I saw 3 or 4 people with huge smiles, they were younger – a reporter, a colleague’s staffer, whatever. A few had their noses wrinkled up, I could tell they were thinking “What on earth did he just say?” The rest of the audience’s faces wore blank stares. I’ve never given a speech that had gotten such a reaction. My mind instantly went to the scene in Back to The Future when Marty McFly, played by Michael J. Fox played a wild guitar solo at his dad’s high school dance. Remember that scene? His dad’s classmates expected Chuck Berry and got hit with Van Halen. All he could say to the shocked dancers was “I guess you guys aren't ready for that, yet. But your kids are gonna love it.” That’s pretty much how I felt. Afterward, what I said at the hearing got a lot of attention. The people in the audience who were smiling must have told someone, who told someone, who got Newsweek to get me and Gregg together for lunch. We talked a lot about music and copyrights and we discussed how some people believe that his sampling-based artistic creations were a form of piracy. He responded that because the clips he used were so short – think about 2 seconds of an Earth, Wind and Fire song – that by no means discouraged the listener from buying the original song. Instead, it probably exposed my favorite band to kids who remember hearing the chorus from a song their parents played. Now, both Gregg and I believe that the artists that he samples from should be compensated – but that their compensation should be in line with their contribution. Because he uses so many samples of such a short length, he outlined scenarios where the licensing costs for one album could run well into the millions – way more than it’d ever take in. That’s assuming he could even figure out who actually owned the copyrights of certain, older songs. So while the Girl Talk story isn’t the most pure example of fair use, it’s a great introduction to how I became so familiar with the topic. Most members of Congress don’t think about fair use. The best thing that fair use advocates have going are the amazing gadgets and services that people create to make our interactions with audio and visual content more meaningful, more engaging. I grew up with 12 inch LPs and turntables and the idea of carrying hundreds of those albums with me -- my favorite TV shows and a few movies in a small thing that fits in my pocket is still amazing to me. Think about it, first the iPod was the coolest thing – a cultural icon and a hip fashion accessory. And then people like me started to buy them. I didn’t buy all the songs on my iPod from the iTunes store – I ripped them from my CD collection. While that’s a textbook example of “fair use”, that name isn’t what most people call it. “Duh” is what most people call it. As the other speakers and panelists will talk about today, fair use impacts us in ways that we don’t often figure. To give you one measure of the cultural impact of fair use, 5 long years ago college students were polled and determined that the iPod was the #1 “in thing” on campus. Tied for number 2 were Facebook and beer. That was 5 years ago, but I’m not sure that that’s changed much. But the iPod, Facebook and beer have a lot more in common than you might imagine. After all, Ben Franklin’s famous misquote that “Beer is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy” is hanging on the walls of thousands of college dorm rooms across this country. Using that quote for a poster might be fair use if his copyright on it hadn’t already expired into the public domain. But seriously, social networking sites like Facebook rely on fair use when they briefly excerpt an article that I post that mentions my work back in Pittsburgh, or my comments on a national issue. That kind of fair use, the scraping of content from other websites and putting it on your own is under fire – a threat to fair use as we know it today. But try to imagine a world without it? If you wanted to look for something on the web, how would you know what to click on if the search results didn’t have the little quote below the link? I’ve been reading about this on TechDirt, so Mike Masnick, please forgive me if I use your example, but I’ve noticed that Rupert Murdoch is furious at Google for this kind of fair use. He not only wants to block Google’s web crawling of his content, which he could legally do today if he wanted – but he wants the entire legal theory underpinning this activity overturned. But it wasn’t until I saw TechDirt’s feature on the dozens of examples of other NewsCorp websites that rely on scraping other people’s content that I realized that Murdoch’s argument was flawed. Why do his own sites do it? Because it’s useful to readers, and if it’s useful, then readers will come back to the site more often, generating ads, generating revenue and so on. So it’s interesting that Murdoch’s Fox News is being sued by a copyright holder for infringement after Fox News used clips of an interview during the aftermath of Michael Jackson’s death. “Fair use!” Fox News says. The lawsuit rebuts, saying “Fox sanctimoniously operates unencumbered by the very copyright restrictions it seeks to impose on its competitors.” Tough words. We’ll see where this case goes. Fox News is a huge business. And its parent NewsCorp is one of the top copyright businesses in the world, creating more content than each of us here could possibly watch or listen to each day. Murdoch’s content is valuable, and the economic contribution of the copyright industries is substantial. But I think that Murdoch’s example is proof that copyright industries also are fair use industries. Digital music downloads were inevitable as soon as computers had access to the Internet. But technology today relies on fair use -- just last night, I saw that an old friend owns a turntable that records LPs onto a CD or a USB drive. Without fair use, it'd be illegal. Clearly, fair use has an important role to play in the economy, some estimate copyright exemptions like fair use contribute $2.2 trillion to the economy. But there are other challenges to fair use outside the marketplace. The US Trade Representative is engaging in negotiations over a trade agreement that might have significant, harmful effects on the Internet and fair use. It's called the Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement, or ACTA. Unfortunately, I can’t tell you what’s in it because it's still in negotiations and I haven’t signed a non-disclosure agreement. It’s got a great name. After all, I want to make sure that when I buy my wife a nice purse for Christmas, that it’s not a fake. I want to be able to comparison shop and have confidence in the things I buy. If that’s what a counterfeiting and piracy agreement will do -- by giving law enforcement more effective tools -- then there would be widespread agreement. But the digital content and internet section has sparked many people, companies and industries that I respect to grow very concerned. I join with Senators Bernie Sanders, Sherrod Brown in wanting deliberations to be more public, and I’m very interested in hearing the answers to Senator Wyden’s letter from last week asking the US Trade Rep to respond to allegations like the one I just outlined. If ACTA is to succeed -- and it might -- the United Kingdom has it right when it says that “transparency is crucial to ensure the legitimacy of the agreement and to stop the spread of rumours. We believe the lack of transparency is unhelpful and do not believe that it is in the public interest.” The USTR has communicated to me that ACTA won’t cement current provisions in the Digital Millennium Copyright Act – provisions that I’d like to see changed, like the anti-circumvention provision. And they’ve said that ACTA won’t require Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to become “copyright cops” above current law. Well, that sounds nice, but there are still many respected scholars who believe that that will lead to a 3 strikes policy that would punish repeat infringers by cutting them off from the Internet. So let me be very clear. I will oppose any effort, by Congress or by trade agreement, to cut people off the Internet. If people are pirating movies and music, they should be punished. There are laws on the books against that illegal activity. But I don’t want Corey Vidal’s upload of the acapella tribute he made to the movie music of John Williams to count as a strike. Or Stephanie Lenz from Altoona, Pennsylvania, who uploaded a video of her 18 month-old child dancing to Prince, who had to sue to get her good name back after the record company accused her of copyright infringement. That shouldn’t count as a strike. In the days when Internet access is so critical to our children’s education, and when digital literacy is so important to our economic future, I would hate for one person, or one child’s, mistakes to punish the rest of the family. I would hate for a computer infected with viruses or malware to get a family kicked off the internet. There’s an amazing story in the Washington Post from December headlined “Without ready access to computers, students struggle.” It’s about kids without computer or online access at home getting further and further behind their peers. We should be talking about how to expand digital access to every family in America, not how to take it away. But hope is not lost. I am quite pleased that at the December meeting of the World Intellectual Property Organization, the United States delegation outlined its support for new fair-use-like exceptions to copyright for the visually impaired that might help them have access to technologies like book readers and more. And in their filing, the delegation made clear that “The United States is committed to both better exceptions in copyright law and better enforcement of copyright law.” That’s exactly my belief, and I’m glad that's the Obama Administration’s view. Copyright exceptions like fair use are important to our nation. Gigi, thank you so much for inviting me here this morning. I hope you all enjoy celebrating World Fair Use Day. ###
12.17.2009	Washington, DC – December 17, 2009 –Last night, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the Local Community Radio Act (H.R. 1147), legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Lee Terry (NE-2) that would allow thousands of community radio stations across the country to begin broadcasting. During House consideration of H.R. 1147, Congressman Doyle said, “LPFM stations have proven to be a vital source of information during local or national emergencies, and these stations … create opportunities for new voices on the airwaves and … allow local schools, churches, and other community-based organizations to provide programming responsive to local community needs and interests.” “Three times over the last 5 years, all 5 FCC Commissioners agreed on a unanimous, bipartisan basis that Congress should lift the restrictions on LPFM stations and allow them to license new stations in more communities – but Congress has to act on the Commission’s recommendations – otherwise, similar stations are prevented from operating in communities across America, including communities like mine,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Stations like Lightning Community Radio and WMKP, “The Roar” – at Penn State’s Greater Allegheny Campus – wanted to serve McKeesport in my district. The current law relegates them to webcasting, but they want to simulcast on the air as well. We must pass this bill today to make sure that can happen.” “This is a long time coming for the many organizations who want to set up low power radio stations across the United States,” said Congressman Terry. “Our legislation will give a voice to groups who want to provide greater awareness and involvement in their community.” In 2000, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued rules that would have allowed the establishment of thousands of low-power FM (LPFM) radio stations across the country. The FCC’s effort to promote diverse local voices on the radio dial was short-circuited by later that year when Congress enacted “the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act.” This legislation compelled the FCC to issue LPFM licenses only to low-power radio stations that were at least 4 intervals on the radio dial away from existing full-power stations – ostensibly out of concern that the new stations would cause interference with the existing stations’ signals, but effectively banning low-power FM stations from the 50 largest media markets in the country. This legislation also required an independent study of how much separation was required to ensure that existing full-power signals weren’t, in fact, compromised. The study required by the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act, which was completed in 2003, concluded that reducing the separation between radio transmission frequencies to three spaces on the radio dial wouldn’t cause interference with existing broadcast signals. The Local Community Radio Act would repeal the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act’s requirement that radio stations in a given market be 4 intervals apart. Congressmen Doyle and Terry believe that reducing the required space between radio stations will allow thousands of new community-based LPFM stations across the country to begin broadcasting, dramatically increasing the diversity and community-orientation of radio programming across the country – and exponentially increasing the ability of local governments to communicate important safety information to their communities in the event of terrorist attacks or natural disasters. Identical legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and John McCain (R-AZ). “This bill has broad support … from almost a dozen leaders from Catholic and Protestant faiths like the United Church of Christ and the National Association of Evangelicals, a letter from two dozen national and local public interest, civil rights and local groups, another letter from the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights … the National Federation of Community Broadcasters and the Prometheus Radio Project – all of whom support this bill,” Congressman Doyle said. “I am grateful for the support that this bill has from both sides of the aisle, including the bill’s lead co-sponsor and my friend Mr. Lee Terry from Omaha.” “The time has come for Congress to rewrite the law,” Congressman Doyle concluded. “The time has come to make the airwaves available to the people they serve. The time has come to bring low-power to the people.” ###
12.16.2009	Washington, DC - December 16, 2009 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted in support of the Defense Appropriations Act, which was approved by the House by a vote of 395 to 34. “This legislation provides essential assistance and resources to the men and women in our armed forces and their families,” Congressman Doyle said, “and it includes important emergency provisions to help hard-pressed American families endure this recession.” The Defense Appropriations Act gives all U.S. military personnel a 3.4 percent pay raise. It also provides money to pay them an extra $500 for every month their term of service is involuntarily extended by the “stop loss” practice. The bill also provides assistance to service members’ families by investing $29 billion in programs such as child care, job training for spouses, and expanded counseling services. The bill also provides emergency relief to those Americans that are hardest hit by our current economic slump by extending emergency unemployment benefits and help with COBRA health benefits for those out of work.
12.10.2009	Washington, DC – December 10, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) announced that today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved the final version of legislation providing nearly $4 million in federal funding for local efforts to address community needs in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “This funding will help us address a number of challenges our community faces – from educating homeless children to preventing crime to redeveloping old, vacant industrial sites,” Congressman Doyle said today after the vote. “That’s why I’ve worked over the last ten months to secure this funding, and I’m very pleased that we’ve been successful.” H.R. 3288, the Consolidated Appropriations Act for 2010, passed the House today by a vote of 221-202 with Congressman Doyle’s support. H.R. 3288 included the following funding for initiatives in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional district: $100,000 – Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse for efforts to promote bioscience research in the region $100,000 – Homeless Children's Education Fund for its after-school education program for homeless children $600,000 – Children’s Institute for new health care equipment for autism research $275,000 – United Way of Allegheny County Youth Futures Commission to prevent youth violence in the region $120,000 – Borough of McKees Rocks for surveillance camera network installation $500,000 – City of Pittsburgh for its Neighborhood Camera Security System $100,000 – Borough of Etna for Security Cameras and Police Equipment $150,000 – Persad Center for its Community Safe Zone program to reduce hate crimes and violence in the region $100,000 – The PROGRAM for Offenders for its Family Reunification Project to reduce recidivism, strengthen families, and support the children of offenders $250,000 – Women's Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh for its Domestic Violence Support Program $500,000 – KidsVoice to help it provide child advocacy services in the Allegheny County child welfare system $700,000 – Allegheny County Port Authority to purchase fuel-efficient, low-pollution hybrid engine buses $100,000 – Braddock Redux for renovation of an existing building to serve as the Braddock Community Center $194,800 – Mt. Washington Community Development Corporation for brownfield redevelopment ###
11.07.2009	Washington, DC – November 7, 2009 – Last night, the U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) voted for health care reform legislation that would guarantee all Americans affordable, high-quality health care. This bill, the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives by a vote of 220 to 215. “House passage of health care reform is an important step forward in the struggle to ensure that all Americans have access to decent health care they can afford,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Americans will see immediate benefits from enactment of this bill, as well as long-term improvements in health care quality, affordability, choice, and coverage as the legislation is implemented.” “On the day the President signs this bill, Americans will no longer have to worry about being discriminated against for pre-existing conditions – or going bankrupt from massive health care bills,” Congressman Doyle added. "As soon as the bill is signed, seniors will see the donut hole get smaller, and their co-pays for preventive care will be eliminated. It should be crystal clear early on that this health care reform bill benefits all Americans.” Click here for information about provisions in the bill that would take effect as soon as the bill becomes law. “In addition to ending insurance industry abuses, this bill will make preventive care free to seniors on Medicare and all Americans with insurance,” Congressman Doyle noted. Click here for information about provisions in the bill dealing with preventive care. “As the bill goes into effect, areas like ours where two private companies dominate the insurance market will see much greater competition, which should improve consumer choice and keep costs under control,” Doyle added. Click here for information about the cost-saving provisions in the bill. “Finally, this bill will save us all money in the long run,” Congressman Doyle said. “This bill extends Medicare solvency by at least 5 years and will pay for itself and reduce our national debt.” Click here for more information about H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act. Click here for a simple on-line questionnaire that can let you see how the Affordable Health Care for America Act would affect you. ###
10.30.2009	Washington, DC - October 30, 2009 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle released the following statement: "Today, House Democrats introduced a comprehensive health care reform bill. "The legislation introduced today, H.R. 3962 (the Affordable Health Care for America Act), is a revised version of H.R. 3200 (America's Affordable Health Choices Act), which was introduced earlier this year. "The Affordable Health Care for America Act would build on our existing system of providing health insurance. Most working-age Americans and their families would continue to receive health insurance through their employers. Senior citizens and the poor would continue to get health insurance coverage under Medicare and Medicaid. Veterans and military families would continue to get heath care through the VA health care system and the TRICARE program. But a new health insurance exchange would be created – essentially a supermarket for health insurance policies – where small businesses and individuals who are uninsured could purchase health insurance policies from among a number of private health insurance plans and one public health insurance plan that will compete with them on a level playing field. In addition, the federal government would provide assistance to individuals and families with incomes of up to 400 percent of poverty so that they can afford to purchase health insurance. "The bill also contains a number of provisions to ensure that people with pre-existing conditions aren’t discriminated against, and that people who get sick aren’t dropped by their insurance company. It would also end the insurance industry practice of charging women up to 50 percent more than men for insurance. And it would cap annual out-of-pocket costs and prohibit annual or lifetime benefit caps. "Now it’s time for the American people to take a look at the bill. I’ve posted links to the text of the Affordable Health Care for America Act on my website to make it easier for you, my constituents, to read it and make up your own minds about it. "Click here to read the complete text of H.R. 3962, the Affordable Health Care for America Act (https://docs.house.gov/rules/health/111_ahcaa.pdf). "I’d like to know what you think of this plan for ensuring that all Americans have access to affordable, comprehensive, high-quality health care." ###
10.16.2009	Pittsburgh – October 16, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle released the following statement: “When I was informed late last night that UPMC was planning to close down its UPMC Braddock hospital, I was surprised and dismayed. I have lots of questions about this proposal. “I’m not happy about this announcement, and I have many concerns about it. This is an important hospital in an area that really needs it. UPMC Braddock provides essential health care and emergency services to the residents of the Mon Valley, and I believe that closing this hospital would dramatically reduce access to health care in the communities it serves. I’m also concerned for the UPMC employees who might lose their jobs. “I have already consulted with County Executive Onorato, State Senator Logan, and Braddock Mayor Fetterman, and we agreed to request a meeting with UPMC President Jeffrey Romoff. That meeting has been scheduled for Monday morning. At that meeting, I plan to ask UPMC how they propose to ensure that the people of Braddock and the surrounding communities get the health care they need. We’ll see where we go from there.” ###
08.28.2009	Pittsburgh, PA –August 28, 2009 – Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that the U.S. Department of Justice has awarded a grant of $250,000 to the Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh (WC&S). The funding will assist the organization in continuing its work of providing assistance to victims of domestic violence. “The Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh has worked for 35 years to help victims of domestic violence heal and begin a new life free from fear of further abuse,” Congressman Doyle said in announcing the award. “They’ve helped thousands of women and children in our community over that time, and they’ve done their work with professionalism and compassion. I am proud to have been able to secure funding support that will help them continue their important work.” Congressman Doyle worked successfully over the past year to secure federal assistance for the Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh. Funding for the initiative was included in the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill (H. R. 1105), which the President signed into law in March. The Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh provides a safe haven and essential services to women and their children trying to free themselves from the dangers of domestic abuse. The WC&S, founded in 1974, is one of the first six shelters in the United States for battered women. WC&S serves over 5,000 woman and child victims of domestic violence each year. The services provided include a 24-hour confidential hotline, a confidential and secure shelter, counseling and empowerment services for women and children, legal and medical advocacy and prevention education. All services provided by WC&S are free and confidential. This federal funding will go to three of the shelter’s programs – Emergency Shelter PLUS, the Children’s Counseling Center, and the 24 Hour Hotline. “We are very grateful for this funding,” said Shirl Regan, Executive Director of the Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh. “In this time of great demand for our services, the support will allow us to keep our doors open.” ###
08.26.2009	Washington, DC – August 26, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) issued the following statement in response to the announcement that U.S. Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA) had died. “I was deeply saddened by the passing of Senator Kennedy. He was a great man who dedicated his life to public service. “It’s especially remarkable that a man from such a privileged background would make it his life’s work to improve the lot of the poor, the elderly, the disenfranchised, and the disabled – but like his brothers, Teddy Kennedy was committed to giving back to the country that had given his family so much. “In more than 4 decades in the Senate, Ted Kennedy led the fight to make our nation’s health, education, labor, and civil rights policies more progressive – and did more to improve the lives of regular Americans than most elected officials could ever imagine. He held a unique position in the Senate, with friends on both sides of the aisle and the gifts necessary to cross ideological divides and find common ground that benefited the nation. “Our country has lost a strong and skillful leader with his passing – and, sadly, we’ve lost him in the midst of a struggle to achieve his life-long dream of affordable, high-quality health care for all Americans. I hope that Congress will cap his career and complete his legacy by finding common ground and passing meaningful health care reform in the coming months.” ###
07.31.2009	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Chris Smith (NJ-4) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) today announced that on Thursday, the House approved funding for a critical DOD research program that assists military families with children who suffer from autism spectrum disorders . Smith and Doyle, co-chairs of the bipartisan Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE) who worked to secure funding for the program, said that $8 million has been earmarked in the “FY09 Defense Appropriations Act” (H.R. 3326) for a research account in the Defense Health Programs for the sole purpose of improving treatment and intervention for individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). The federal research will be shared with other federal autism efforts. The bill passed the House 400-30. “By their nature, military families face touch challenges and sacrifices as they cope with the rigors and stress of deployments and warfare,” said Smith. “But military families who also have an autistic child are under tremendous pressure. Americans and the Congress have an obligation to our servicemen, servicewomen and their families to ease their burdens—including and especially—assisting military families care for children with special needs.” “Our men and women in uniform make many sacrifices for their country, and so do their families,” Doyle observed. “They deserve all the support we can give them. This research funding will help our military personnel and their families by improving the care that family members with autism receive.” The DOD autism program was created by a provision in the FY07 Defense Appropriations Act” (P.L. 109-289) authored by Smith and Doyle. Research directed by the DOD program will not only help the estimated 12,000 military children currently affected by autism, but will also benefit the general autism population as new findings and techniques will be shared with the medical, educational, healthcare and service professionals who serve the needs of the autism community both within the DOD and beyond. “The extremely high prevalence of autism in our country requires a comprehensive, national effort,” said Smith. “DOD’s research will not only help military families with autistic children, but will expand our knowledge of this disease, opening up new possibilities of new, more effective treatments. What is learned through the program will be shared with the general population so that all can benefit.” “The research done by DoD will also benefit civilian families dealing with autism,” Doyle said. “I’m very pleased that this Autism Caucus initiative has been successful. The Coalition on Autism Research and Education will continue its efforts to advance our knowledge about Autism Spectrum Disorders, develop more effective treatments, and ensure that families dealing with autism get the support they need.” The Coalition on Autism Research and Education (CARE), headed by Smith and Doyle, and has been credited with helping to significantly increase federal funding for autism initiatives. For instance, funding for autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has increased from about $287,000 in 1995 to $18 million in 2009. During that same period autism funding at the National Institutes of Health increased from $10.5 million in 1995 to $118 million in 2009. Smith, Doyle and the members of CARE are committed to continuing this trend, especially in light of rising ASD prevalence numbers. The CDC has released groundbreaking data documenting the high prevalence of ASDs around the country. As a result of this landmark study, it is now believed that 1 out of every 150 children born in the United States suffers from an ASD, as classified by the CDC. ###
07.17.2009	Washington, D.C. – July 17, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced that he had secured $80 million in federal funding in the Fiscal Year 2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Act (H.R. 3183) for local Army Corps of Engineers projects. The bill also included $1.5 million for Pittsburgh Green Innovators, a local project to commercialize new environmental technology and create local “green” jobs. The spending bill was approved by the House of Representatives today by a vote of 320 to 97. “This bill will provide much-needed funding for the Pittsburgh Corps of Engineers to continue the important work they do to keep commercial barges and recreational boaters moving along our region’s rivers,” Congressman Mike Doyle said today after passage of the bill. “It will also allow the Corps to continue working to help local governments improve local water quality and end the discharge of raw sewage into our rivers and streams. The bill also provides funding for a study of our region’s future waterway needs. Finally, this bill will help us make southwestern Pennsylvania a national leader in green jobs and technology. I’m pleased that I was able to make sure this bill will so directly benefit our region.” The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for designing, building, operating, and maintaining navigation and flood control projects along our nation’s waterways. Corps locks and dams along the Allegheny, Ohio, and Monogahela Rivers in this region make it possible to move 41 million tons of cargo and 30,000 recreational vessels up and down those waterways each year. The Corps’ locks and dams support tens of thousands of jobs in Southwestern Pennsylvania. Specifically, the bill included: • $47 million for operations and maintenance of locks and dams along the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Ohio Rivers • $25 million for urgently needed repairs to the Emsworth Locks and Dam on the Ohio River • $6.21 million for modernization of Locks and Dams 2, 3, and 4 along the Monongahela River • $1.25 million for the Upper Ohio River Navigation System Study to address future needs • $2 million for the Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Project to eliminate sewer overflows • $1.5 million for the Pittsburgh Green Innovators project The Pittsburgh Green Innovators project is a locally driven initiative to establish a business incubator for companies working to commercialize sustainable technologies, develop a workforce training curriculum for local careers in sustainable industries, and promote advanced technology development in our region. This funding will help redevelop the closed Connelly School in Pittsburgh into a center for these initiatives. “I have been working with local community leaders for some time to get the Pittsburgh Green Innovators project up and running,” Congressman Doyle said. “Pittsburgh Green Innovators will help our region become a national leader in green technology. That’s why I am pleased that I was able to secure this essential seed money for it.” Overall, the bill included $5.5 billion in funding for Army Corps of Engineers water projects and $1.1 billion for water projects managed by the Department of the Interior. The bill also included $26.9 billion for the Department of Energy – primarily for research on new renewable energy supplies and more energy-efficient technology, modernizing the nation’s electric transmission grid, and cleaning up old nuclear waste sites. “The funding for research on new energy sources and more energy-efficient technology is an important investment in US energy independence and a cleaner, more sustainable environment,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I have been working for years to expand federal investments in alternative, renewable, and clean energy technology. I believe that energy technology will be the next major driver of the world economy, and I want the United States – and southwestern Pennsylvania in particular – to be a world leader in this field so that our region will benefit from the jobs and investment that it will create. This bill moves us in that direction.” This legislation must now be considered by the Senate. ###
07.11.2009	Washington, DC – July 11, 2009 – The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Communications, Technology and the Internet held a hearing on the Local Community Radio Act (H.R. 1147), legislation introduced by U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Lee Terry (NE-2) that would allow thousands of community radio stations across the country to begin broadcasting. In his opening statement, Congressman Doyle said, “In 2000, the Federal Communications Commission started to create new community radio stations, run by local schools, churches, community groups and governments. They did this because their mission from Congress is not to help entrenched lobbies, but to make sure that as many Americans as possible have access to the public’s airwaves to fulfill a basic human need – the right to communicate. But responding to broadcasters’ concerns, Congress called time out and asked for an independent study to examine the issue. The premise of Congress’ decision to order the study was that if the study confirmed the FCC’s findings, Congress would remove its prohibition on the FCC, and allow it to fully implement community radio. The study came back, agreed with the FCC that these stations can be created without harming listeners. And through two unanimous, bipartisan votes, the FCC has twice now recommended that Congress do so. I am asking Congress to keep its part of the bargain.” In 2000, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued rules that would have allowed the establishment of thousands of low-power FM (LPFM) radio stations across the country. The FCC’s effort to promote diverse local voices on the radio dial was short-circuited by later that year when Congress enacted “the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act.” This legislation compelled the FCC to issue LPFM licenses only to low-power radio stations that were at least 4 intervals on the radio dial away from existing full-power stations – ostensibly out of concern that the new stations would cause interference with the existing stations’ signals, but effectively banning low-power FM stations from the 50 largest media markets in the country. This legislation also required an independent study of how much separation was required to ensure that existing full-power signals weren’t, in fact, compromised. The study required by the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act, which was completed in 2003, concluded that reducing the separation between radio transmission frequencies to three spaces on the radio dial wouldn’t cause interference with existing broadcast signals. The Local Community Radio Act would repeal the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act’s requirement that radio stations in a given market be 4 intervals apart. They believe that reducing the required space between radio stations will allow thousands of new community-based LPFM stations across the country to begin broadcasting, dramatically increasing the diversity and community-orientation of radio programming across the country – and exponentially increasing the ability of local governments to communicate important safety information to their communities in the event of terrorist attacks or natural disasters. Identical legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA). “It’s almost like incumbent broadcasters wrote the line that William Shakespeare actually wrote in Hamlet – ‘Give every man his ear, but few his voice,’” Congressman Doyle observed. “Mister Chairman, we need to make sure that more Americans get a chance to exercise their voice. We must pass my bill this year, and we must bring low power to the people.” Click here to see a video of Congressman Doyle’s statement. Click here to see a video of Congressman Doyle questioning witnesses at the hearing about the Local Community Radio Act: ###
07.09.2009	Washington, D.C. – July 9, 2009 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today released the following statement: “I have been actively involved in promoting a peaceful resolution to the conflict in Northern Ireland throughout my service in Congress. With the recent announcement by two loyalist paramilitary groups that they were decommissioning their weapons and First Minister Robinson's recent effort to push Unionists towards devolution of policing, the peace process in Northern Ireland has entered a new and delicate phase where American support and encouragement is critical. “Last week, I was part of an official bipartisan Congressional delegation to Ireland and the UK that was working to support those efforts. We traveled to Belfast and Dublin, where we undertook interparliamentary discussions on the Northern Ireland peace process with members of the Dail in Dublin and members of the Northern Ireland Assembly in Belfast. We also discussed other issues of mutual concern – issues like trade, investment, green technology, and immigration. Our delegation also met with Irish President Mary McAleese, the Taoiseach Brian Cowen, the Tanaiste Mary Coughlan, members of the Irish American Chamber of Commerce, and representatives of both Unionist and Nationalist parties in Northern Ireland. We also met in London with British Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, Shaun Woodward. “Finally, I was fortunate to be able to meet with in Dublin with the new United States Ambassador to Ireland, Pittsburgh’s own Dan Rooney, and to congratulate him on his new posting and wish him well.” On July 4, 2009, Congressman Doyle attended an Independence Day celebration at Phoenix Park in Dublin hosted by the U.S. Ambassador to Ireland Dan Rooney and his wife Patricia. ###
06.26.2009	Washington, DC – June 26, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA14) voted today in favor of legislation that would reduce global warming, make this country a leader in the field of advanced energy technology, and create hundreds of thousands of new American manufacturing jobs – all while protecting consumers. This bill (H.R. 2454, the American Clean Energy and Security Act) passed the House by a vote of 219 to 212. The American Clean Energy and Security Act must now be considered by the Senate. “This bill presents us with a tremendous opportunity to promote economic growth and job creation while we solve one of the biggest environmental challenges facing the world today,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “I worked over the last six months with [Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman] Henry Waxman and [Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Energy and Environment Chairman] Ed Markey to draft this bill, which would curb global warming by reducing our country’s emissions of carbon dioxide – and do so while creating good-paying American jobs and protecting Ameican consumers. I’m very proud of what we have produced.” The scientific evidence is overwhelming that human-produced greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide are raising global temperatures significantly – and that without major action by the world’s governments, global warming will cause significant suffering and economic hardship in the coming decades. The United States, with 5% of the world’s population, currently produces 25% of the world’s energy-related CO2 emissions. H.R. 2454 would reduce carbon-dioxide emissions in the United States below 2005 levels by 17 percent in the year 2020 – and by 83 percent in the year 2050. In addition, the bill would improve our national security by ending the United States’ dependence on oil from unstable parts of the world. Finally, the bill would make the United States a leader in alternative and renewable sources of energy like wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass; energy-efficient technology; carbon capture and sequestration technology; and consumer-friendly, high-mileage cars and automobile engines that rely on alternatives to petroleum like electric batteries and fuel cells. “This legislation would create millions of jobs and make the United States a leader in energy-efficient technology and alternative energy, much as the Apollo program made the United States a leader in technologies ranging from health care to computers – and as the Defense Department’s ARPANET program made the United States the world leader in Internet and computer technology,” Congressman Doyle added. “Conversely, if we don’t get on board now, we’re going to be left behind, and our economy will suffer for decades to come.” Estimates indicate that enactment of this legislation would spur up to $150 billion in new investments, which would produce nearly 2 million good new jobs. These jobs would be created in all sectors of the economy – from construction and manufacturing to transportation and computers. The Environmental Protection Agency recently estimated that if American Clean Energy and Security Act were enacted, the nation’s gross domestic product would grow from $13 trillion in 2008 to over $22 trillion in 2030. Moreover, failure to adopt such legislation will increase the likelihood that the United States will lose millions of good-paying high-tech jobs to countries overseas. “The bad things people are saying about this bill are false,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Critics of the bill say that it would impose huge new energy costs on consumers. There’s no credible study backing them up – quite the opposite, in fact. The Environmental Protection Agency and the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office have both concluded that the bill would cost the average American household between 22 and 48 cents a day.” “I worked hard to ensure that the bill contained provisions that would hold electric utility customers harmless from the increased costs associated with phasing out coal-fired power plants,” Congressman Doyle noted. “The bill takes money paid by greenhouse gas emitting power plants and gives it to utility customers as a credit on their electric bill to keep their electricity costs low. As a result, the cost of the bill to consumers would be minimal.” For example, close to a third of the households in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District (encompassing the City of Pittsburgh and 53 other municipalities in Allegheny County) would actually see their electric bills drop by about $40 a year. Higher income families would see their electricity costs increase by less than a dollar a day – about $200 a year. Critics of the bill have also asserted that it would destroy our industries and devastate our economy. Similar claims have been made before about legislation to improve the environment and public health – and they’ve proven to be false. This bill would establish the same kind of solution the United States put in place in 1990 to successfully fight acid rain – after which electricity rates fell 10 percent and the U.S. economy added 16 million new jobs. The bill is supported by a number of energy-intensive companies and labor unions representing workers in energy-intensive industries. “This bill is necessary to make our country a leader in the technologies that I believe will drive the global economy in the coming decades,” Congressman Doyle said. “Pittsburgh, which is already a world leader in this field, is well positioned to prosper if the American Clean Energy and Security Act becomes law.” “I was personally responsible for writing the part of the bill that protects energy-intensive trade-sensitive industries in the United States like steel and aluminum from competitors in foreign countries that haven’t adopted comparable global warming measures. This provision also provides financial incentives to our energy-intensive industries to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.” “This legislation would benefit our children and grandchildren by leaving them a better environment and a booming economy, and I will continue to work to get this bill to the President’s desk for his signature,” Congressman Doyle added. ###
06.18.2009	Washington, DC – June 18, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today released the following statement announcing that he has started using Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter to help his constituents keep tabs on what he’s been doing in Congress as their representative: “I’m trying several new approaches to keep my constituents informed about my efforts to represent you in Congress. For quite some time, I’ve maintained a web site and sent our periodic newsletters and e-newsletters to keep my constituents informed about major actions in Congress. Today, however, many of my constituents are using new media like Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter to keep themselves informed and to communicate with one another.” “In order to make it easier for my constituents to keep track of my official activities and judge me on my record, I established a YouTube channel last year to post video from committee hearings, the House Floor, and other public events. These videos give viewers some idea of the kinds of issues I’ve been working on in Congress – issues like veterans, autism, telecommunications, and the war in Iraq. I hope you’ll check it out. Just go to the link below or search on YouTube for “Congressman Doyle”. “Facebook recently worked in cooperation with the House of Representatives to create a “government official” page that complies with all the House rules regarding official communications. I set up one of these pages last month, and I have begun posting comments and video on this page. If you use Facebook, I hope you’ll take a look at my page. Just search for “U.S. Representative Mike Doyle”. “I have also established a Twitter account, and I have begun “tweeting” about my actions in Congress. Just search for “USRepMikeDoyle” on Twitter. “Please check out these new sources of information about my actions as your representative in Congress – and let me know what you think. This is an experiment right now, and it’s definitely a work in progress. The feedback I receive from you and other constituents will determine its fate. “I hope you approve of this effort to serve you better. Please let me know what you think of this new source of information – and what else I can do to make my office more accessible and accountable to the people I represent in Congress.” Official Internet Sources of Information on Mike Doyle: Web site: https://doyle.house.gov/ YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/user/CongressmanDoyle Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/US-Representative-Mike-Doyle/79663724861 Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/USRepMikeDoyle ###
06.05.2009	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) -- Today, U.S. Congressmen Tim Murphy (PA-18), Jason Altmire (PA-04), and Mike Doyle (PA-14), along with Senators Arlen Specter (D-PA) and Bob Casey (D-PA) sent a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) requesting an investigation into the VA Regional Office in Pittsburgh’s handling of veterans’ benefits claims. A report released by the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) in May 2009 found that due to a delay in the processing of veterans’ benefit claims, the Pittsburgh VA’s performance numbers were artificially inflated and employees received a $300 bonus. Local Congressional leaders are asking the GAO to further investigate this mishandling of veterans claims and to report on how the processing of veterans’ claims can be improved in the future. A copy of the letter is attached. “Today, we are calling on the Government Accountability Office to fully review and report to Congress on the allegations of benefits being withheld from our local veterans. More importantly, we look forward to the GAO's recommendations on improving VA service so that this situation can't and won't happen again. We are focused on positive solutions to ensure the Pittsburgh VA delivers timely first-class service that our veterans deserve,” said Congressman Murphy. “The Department of Veterans Affairs’ investigation into the processing of veterans’ benefits claims at the Pittsburgh VA can be described as incomplete at best,” Congressman Altmire said. “We need to get to the bottom of this issue so we can determine what steps need to be taken to ensure that veterans’ claims are processed as quickly and as efficiently as possible. It is simply unacceptable that veterans who put their lives on the line to protect their country are being forced to wait for months to receive the benefits that they have earned.” “It’s a disgrace that many veterans and their families have to wait so long to receive the benefits they deserve,” Congressman Doyle said. “We need to make sure that this problem has been fixed and that any misconduct has been addressed. That’s why we’ve asked the GAO to fully investigate this matter.” “It is my hope that the GAO will thoroughly investigate the Pittsburgh VA’s benefit claims processing system so we can better serve the veterans that have served our country,” Senator Specter said. “Veterans claims should be processed in a timely, efficient manner, and we should do everything we can to improve the system.” “Situations like this undermine the credibility of our government and a thorough investigation is necessary,” said Senator Casey. “Integrity checks should not be needed to ensure that our veterans are treated fairly and their claims handled promptly. I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Pennsylvania delegation to advocate for Pennsylvania veterans who face delays and unjust treatment.” Text of letter below: We write to request a thorough investigation into recent incidents in Pittsburgh related to employee incentives in the Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA). Specifically, we were outraged to learn that VBA employees in Pittsburgh may have improperly delayed payments to veterans in order to qualify for performance bonuses. As documented in a May 12, 2009 VA OIG report, the VBA designed a financial incentive program that rewarded employees for rating each claim within seven days during April and May 2008. Because of the way the claims system is designed, by delaying the movement of the claim into the ready-for-rating batch, performance numbers could be made to look better than they actually were. The result was the delay in payment to deserving veterans and the awarding of $300 bonuses to Pittsburgh employees. Congress has allocated money for new software and additional VBA staff yet the backlog grows even larger, delaying the timely payment of benefits to deserving veteran families. In Pittsburgh alone, there are approximately 4,850 pending claims, more than 27 percent of which are over 180 days old. Out of 56 locations nationwide, Pittsburgh has the fifth-highest percentage of claims pending over 180 days. The aforementioned May 12, 2009 VA OIG report characterized the delayed processing as a misunderstanding between management and staff, and “did not substantiate the allegation” that misconduct had taken place. This raises questions and we seek information to ensure that proper practices are put in place for the future. When misconduct such as this is alleged, full resolution through investigation is necessary to restore the confidence of veterans, every one of whom deserves the prompt and accurate adjudication of benefits claims. The Government Accountability Office has already documented the VA delays and associated problems with employee training and management. When it comes to fixing a broken system, the recommendations made in the VA OIG report are wholly inadequate. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. ####
06.04.2009	Washington, D.C. – June 4, 2009 - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today questioned Congressional witnesses about the wisdom of allowing the public sale of surplus military equipment that is most likely to be used by criminals. “Richard Poplawski was wearing a military grade bullet-proof vest during the recent shoot-out with the Pittsburgh Police that left three officers dead,” Congressman Doyle observed. “There’s no legitimate civilian need for such equipment, but its widespread availability puts law-abiding citizens, local law enforcement officers, and military personnel in serious danger.” On April 4, 2009, Richard Poplawski ambushed and fatally shot three police officers responding to a domestic dispute complaint in the Stanton Heights neighborhood of Pittsburgh. He continued firing at other police officers for several hours before finally surrendering to police. During the standoff he wore a military grade bulletproof vest, and he only surrendered after being wounded in the leg. Congressman Doyle questioned witnesses at a hearing on the commercial sale of military technologies held today by the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. The hearing showcased the results of a Government Accountability Office investigation which concluded that current federal laws governing the sale of such technology put the public at unjustified risk. The GAO report found that sensitive dual-use and military technology can be easily and legally purchased from manufacturers and distributors within the United States and illegally exported without detection “There is no reason why criminals should be able to buy bulletproof vests for use on our streets or why terrorists overseas should be able to buy them and use them against us,” Congressman Doyle said. “For the sake of the brave Americans who keep our country and communities safe, we must do more to keep such equipment out of the hands of criminals, terrorists, and rogue nations.” Congressman Doyle said “I believe that greater restrictions on the sale of military technology to the public are clearly called for, but that’s only one part of what we need to do to reduce the epidemic of violence in our country. First and foremost, we clearly need tougher gun control laws. Reinstatement of the federal assault gun ban would limit the availability of weapons like the AK-47 that Richard Poplawski used to kill officers Kelly, Mayhle, and Sciullo – and more thorough background checks and better records could prevent unstable individuals like Mr. Poplawski from securing such powerful weapons.” Click here to see the video of his questions to the witnesses. Click here for the complete GAO report. ###
05.28.2009	Washington, D.C. –May 28, 2009 – Congressman Doyle today encouraged local veterans to see if they are eligible for new education benefits approved by Congress last year. “A good way to observe Memorial Day this year is to make sure all of our returning military personnel know about the opportunities the Federal Government provides in recognition of their service to our country,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Veterans can now begin applying for education benefits approved by Congress with my support last year, and I encourage them to do so.” The Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act (Public Law 110-252), often referred to as the Post-9/11 GI Bill or the GI Bill for the 21st Century, provides up to 100 percent of the cost of an in-state four-year college education for up to 2 million veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, including tuition assistance, a housing allowance, and a stipend for books and supplies. In addition, eligible veterans have the option to transfer these benefits to family members under certain circumstances. Veterans are eligible for benefits under the Post-9/11 GI Bill if they completed at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001, and were honorably discharged. It also covers individuals honorably discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days of service. The benefits are correlated on a sliding scale to years served. To receive full benefits, a veteran must have served on active duty for three years. Although the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits can be used at either public or private institutions, it generally only covers tuition and fees up to the maximum amount charged by a public institution in the veteran’s home state – but the bill includes the Yellow Ribbon Program to help veterans to afford the higher cost of a private education. The Yellow Ribbon Program allows schools to enter into an agreement with the VA to fund tuition costs above the highest in-state tuition rate. The VA will match each additional dollar that a school contributes toward an eligible student's tuition costs, up to 50 percent of the difference between the tuition and fees covered by the Post-9/11 GI Bill and the total cost of tuition and fees, provided the veteran is eligible to receive the maximum benefit rate (having served three years on active duty, or having been discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days). For further information, veterans call call 1-888-GI-BILL1 (1-888-442-4551) to speak with a Veterans Administration Benefits Counselor. More information can also be found on-line at https://www.gibill.va.gov/. Veterans living in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District can call Al Smith, whose job on Congressman Doyle’s staff is to help veterans get the benefits they’ve earned. He can be reached at 412-241-6055. ###
05.28.2009	Washington, D.C. –May 28, 2009 – Congressman Doyle today encouraged local veterans to see if they are eligible for new education benefits approved by Congress last year. “A good way to observe Memorial Day this year is to make sure all of our returning military personnel know about the opportunities the Federal Government provides in recognition of their service to our country,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Veterans can now begin applying for education benefits approved by Congress with my support last year, and I encourage them to do so.” The Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act (Public Law 110-252), often referred to as the Post-9/11 GI Bill or the GI Bill for the 21st Century, provides up to 100 percent of the cost of an in-state four-year college education for up to 2 million veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, including tuition assistance, a housing allowance, and a stipend for books and supplies. In addition, eligible veterans have the option to transfer these benefits to family members under certain circumstances. Veterans are eligible for benefits under the Post-9/11 GI Bill if they completed at least 90 days of active duty service on or after September 11, 2001, and were honorably discharged. It also covers individuals honorably discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days of service. The benefits are correlated on a sliding scale to years served. To receive full benefits, a veteran must have served on active duty for three years. Although the Post-9/11 GI Bill benefits can be used at either public or private institutions, it generally only covers tuition and fees up to the maximum amount charged by a public institution in the veteran’s home state – but the bill includes the Yellow Ribbon Program to help veterans to afford the higher cost of a private education. The Yellow Ribbon Program allows schools to enter into an agreement with the VA to fund tuition costs above the highest in-state tuition rate. The VA will match each additional dollar that a school contributes toward an eligible student's tuition costs, up to 50 percent of the difference between the tuition and fees covered by the Post-9/11 GI Bill and the total cost of tuition and fees, provided the veteran is eligible to receive the maximum benefit rate (having served three years on active duty, or having been discharged with a service-connected disability after 30 days). For further information, veterans call call 1-888-GI-BILL1 (1-888-442-4551) to speak with a Veterans Administration Benefits Counselor. More information can also be found on-line at https://www.gibill.va.gov/. Veterans living in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District can call Al Smith, whose job on Congressman Doyle’s staff is to help veterans get the benefits they’ve earned. He can be reached at 412-241-6055. ###
05.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Today Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Rep. Edward J. Markey, Rep. Mike Doyle, and Rep. Jay Inslee released the details of an agreement on a major provision for the allocation of allowances to major energy-intensive, trade-exposed industries under the proposed terms of the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009. Under this agreement, energy-intensive industries that compete in global markets will be provided incentives to improve their energy efficiency, as well as assistance to address the costs of transitioning to a clean energy economy. These incentives will be based on the amount of domestic production. Under the agreement: • 15% of allowances in 2014 will be distributed to U.S. manufacturers that are in energy-intensive, trade-exposed industries. • Manufacturers will receive allowances based on the average carbon emissions from the sector, scaled by the manufacturer’s U.S. production. • To provide adequate transition time, the industries will receive allowances through 2025, at which time the President will determine whether they are still needed. “We’ve worked hard to develop legislation that will dramatically reduce CO2 emissions while preserving energy-intensive U.S. manufacturing jobs and protecting consumers from substantially higher electric bills — and I believe that the agreement we’ve reached will do just that,” said Rep. Doyle. “I want to thank Chairman Waxman and Chairman Markey for working so hard to address the concerns raised by other members of the Committee.” “Rep. Doyle and I introduced the Inslee-Doyle provisions to accommodate concerns that industry and working families have raised,” said Rep. Inslee. “This agreement will allow energy-intensive American industries like Alcoa, Weyerhaeuser, and Nucor Steel in Washington State to fairly compete and protect jobs while reducing our national emissions. I’m proud to work with this dynamic and committed group of members to help reach agreement on this issue.” “I want to thank Mike Doyle and Jay Inslee for their outstanding leadership on this issue, which is so important to our industrial heartland. This is good for jobs, good for investment, and good for the environment,” said Rep. Waxman, Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “We are establishing strong protections to ensure America’s industrial capacity can thrive without being disadvantaged by overseas competition.” “We have reached an important milestone as we build consensus on comprehensive clean energy legislation,” said Rep. Markey, Chairman of the Energy and Environment Subcommittee. “This improvement to the legislation will help America create millions of new good-paying clean energy jobs, and do so without losing the quality manufacturing jobs we already have. I commend Rep. Doyle, Rep. Inslee, and Chairman Waxman for all of their hard work.” ###
05.13.2009	WASHINGTON, DC — Rep. Henry A. Waxman, Rep. Edward J. Markey, Rep. John D. Dingell, Rep. Rick Boucher, Rep. Bart Gordon, and Rep. Mike Doyle today released the details of an agreement on a Combined Efficiency and Renewable Electricity Standard that will reduce global warming pollution, create clean energy jobs, and save consumers money. The agreement provides for a combined 20% renewable energy and energy efficiency standard by 2020. By 2020, utilities would be required to obtain 15% of their electricity from renewable energy sources and demonstrate annual electricity savings of 5% from energy efficiency measures. If the governor of a state determines that utilities in the state cannot meet the 15% renewable requirement, the governor may reduce the renewable requirement to 12% and increase the efficiency requirement to 8%. “This combined renewable energy and energy efficiency standard will drive the deployment of clean energy from solar, wind, geothermal, and biomass resources and promote cost-effective investments in energy efficiency,” said Rep. Waxman, Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This will spur jobs, investment, and growth in the renewable energy sector and overall economic activity. It achieves all these goals while ensuring substantial flexibility in how the renewable energy and efficiency objectives are met.” “This clean energy standard will increase the power we use from the sun, wind, and earth, all without increasing electricity prices,” said Rep. Edward J. Markey, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, who introduced the original standard this Congress. According to a recent Department of Energy analysis of a similar provision, the 20% standard will have no impact on the price of electricity through 2020 and will save consumers up to $2 billion through 2030. “This updated standard proves that every region of the country can meet an aggressive clean energy standard, save money, and grow the job-creating energy industries of the future.” “I appreciate the work of Chairman Waxman, Chairman Markey, and a number of our Democratic colleagues in modifying the Renewable Electricity Standard (RES),” said Rep. Boucher. “The revisions which are being made to the RES appropriately recognize regional differences by making necessary improvements to expand the list of qualifying fuels and to lower the alternative compliance payment. With these vital changes, I believe that we have created a balanced and responsible policy to advance deployment of renewable electricity, and I am pleased with the product we are able to put forward on this issue.” “As we all know, a one-sizes-fits-all approach on energy is not reasonable for our country," said Rep. Gordon. “Regional difference present complicated challenges, especially in the area of renewable energy. I appreciate Chairman Waxman and Chairman Markey working with me to create a Renewable Electricity Standard that is not regionally punitive and includes the flexibility to accommodate regional differences. The RES compromise includes targets that are realistic and recognizes the importance of nuclear power and the use of carbon capture and sequestration as we move toward carbon emissions reductions.” “The renewable energy and energy efficiency standard we’ve agreed upon establishes an important national goal while recognizing the need for flexibility in meeting that standard in different regions of the country with different types and levels of renewable resources,” said Rep. Doyle. “I am pleased that we were able to get to a renewable energy and energy efficiency standard of 20% by 2020,” said Rep. Dingell, Chairman Emeritus of the Energy and Commerce Committee. “This moves the ball forward significantly in terms of renewable energy, but does so in a framework within which all states can operate.” ###
05.06.2009	Washington, D.C. – May 6, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that the Social Security Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and the Railroad Retirement Board will start sending $250 economic recovery payments to many of their beneficiaries tomorrow. “Many Americans are suffering economic hardship in the current recession, and few people have been hit harder than senior citizens and disabled Americans living on fixed incomes,” Congressman Doyle observed. “That’s why I supported the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, which provides much-needed assistance to some of our most vulnerable citizens. It’s not a lot of money, and I wish it were more, but it will mean a lot to millions of folks who are struggling to get by.” In February, Congress approved the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 with Congressman Doyle’s support, and President Obama signed it into law. This act provides for a one-time payment of $250 to many individuals who get Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Social Security, Railroad Retirement, or disabled veterans benefits. By the end of this month, more than 52 million Americans will receive their one-time payments of $250, totaling more than $13 billion. Residents of Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District will receive $33.79 million dollars in such payments. All told, 2.276,363 senior citizens and disabled individuals across Pennsylvania will receive $644 million in economic recovery payments. The U.S. Government will deliver your one-time payment in the same way it currently delivers your Social Security, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), VA, or Railroad Retirement benefits. If you receive your monthly benefits by check, you will receive your one-time payment by check. If you receive your benefits via direct deposit or Direct Express® debit card, you will receive your one-time payment the same way. You will receive your one-time economic recovery payment separately from your regular Social Security, SSI, VA, or Railroad Retirement benefits; it will not be included with your monthly benefit payment. No action is required on the part of beneficiaries. The Federal Government expects that everyone who is entitled to a payment will receive it by late May 2009. Individuals may receive only one $250 payment regardless of how many types of benefits they receive. An individual receiving Social Security and SSI or an individual receiving Social Security and Veterans or Railroad Retirement benefits will be entitled to only one payment. Social Security will determine who is eligible under Social Security or SSI. The Railroad Retirement Board and the Department of Veterans Affairs will determine who is eligible under their respective programs. If you receive benefits from Social Security and Veterans or Railroad Retirement benefits, Social Security will determine if you are entitled to the payment. Remember, you will receive only one payment regardless of how many different benefits you currently receive. Disabled adult children receiving Social Security or children receiving SSI payments will receive the one-time payment. If you are married and both you and your spouse are receiving benefits from Social Security or SSI, you each will get the one-time payment. In most cases, the following individuals will NOT receive the one-time payment: • Anyone living outside of the United States or its territories; • Individuals who no longer are lawfully present in the United States; • Individuals whose benefits have been suspended under the law for giving false or misleading statements; • Social Security beneficiaries who are minor children; • SSI beneficiaries who receive benefits at a reduced rate because they live in a medical treatment facility (such as a nursing home or hospital) and Medicaid pays over 50% of the cost of their care; • Individuals only entitled to Medicare and not to Social Security or SSI benefits; and • Prisoners, fugitive felons, and probation and parole violators. Every situation is different, and there may be exceptions to these rules. Individuals who were not eligible for Social Security, SSI, Veterans, or Railroad Retirement benefits at any time during the months of November 2008, December 2008, or January 2009 are not eligible for the one-time payment. This one-time economic recovery payment will not count as gross income for federal income tax purposes, nor will it count as income for SSI. If you have a representative payee, the U.S. Treasury will deliver your one-time payment to your representative payee. Your representative payee is required by law to use the payment for your personal benefit. Please do not contact the Social Security Administration, VA, or Railroad Retirement Board about your payment unless you have not received it by June 4, 2009. If, after June 4, 2009, you have not received your economic recovery payment, you should contact your local Social Security, VA, or Railroad Retirement office to tell them that your payment has not arrived. Please wait until then to ask about your payment because the Department of the Treasury will be sending payments until the end of May. “My office stands ready to help eligible individuals in the 14th District secure their $250 economic recovery payment,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Anyone who needs help with this issue should contact John Jones in my Penn Hills office at 412-241-6055.” ###
04.06.2009	"My staff and I were shocked and saddened by the deaths of Pittsburgh Police Officers Paul Sciullo II, Stephen J. Mayhle¸ and Eric Kelly in the line of duty on April 4. "This terrible event is a reminder of just how dangerous police work can be – and what a heavy debt we as a society owe the men and women who choose to put their lives on the line to keep our communities safe. "Our hearts go out to the families, friends, and comrades of these three brave law enforcement officers, and our thanks go out to all of the law enforcement personnel who risked their lives in the siege at the Stanton Heights neighborhood over the weekend. The dedication and professionalism they all displayed throughout the crisis is evident. We owe all of them a debt of gratitude we can never repay – but we can and should let them know just how much we appreciate their efforts." ###
04.03.2009	Washington, DC – April 3, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle announced today that he had requested federal funding for a number of initiatives in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “The federal government has an important role to play in promoting the economic health of our region, and part of my job is to serve as an advocate for my constituents in Congress,” Congressman Doyle observed. “What’s more, our region’s leadership in a number of important fields means that we have an important role to play in achieving vital national goals. Consequently, it is essential that I work to secure federal funds to address pressing local needs and to promote initiatives that will benefit the nation as a whole. All of the requests that I have submitted meet one or both of these goals.” Congressman Doyle submitted the following requests for Fiscal Year 2010 federal funding to the House Appropriations Committee, the House committee that writes the annual bills that provide funding for all of the federal government’s operations. These requests are broken down by Appropriations bill and account within each bill. FY2010 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill Requests Department of Justice, Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Funds support juvenile justice activities targeting at-risk youth, such as youth gang prevention, juvenile mentoring, and juvenile crime prevention. KidsVoice, Inc. -- Child Advocacy Program Frick Building, 437 Grant Street, Suite 700 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $500,000 -- KidsVoice is the sole provider of child advocacy services in the child welfare system of Allegheny County. Each year, KidsVoice represents nearly 5,000 abused, neglected, and at-risk children. By assigning both an attorney and a social service professional to each child, KidsVoice draws upon the combined expertise and training of professional staff from different disciplines to develop uniquely tailored recommendations regarding which placement and services might create better possibilities of success for each child and family. This funding would be used to continue this advocacy. Safety Kids Inc. -- S.T.A.R. Community Safety Program 10460 Frankstown Road Pittsburgh, PA 15235 $135,000 -- The Stand Together, Act Responsibly (S.T.A.R.) Community Safety Program works to help make children, schools and communities safer while helping to prevent and avoid violence and criminal behavior. Funding would be used to provide additional personal safety programs for children and parenting seminars for adults, expand curriculum and other educational materials, provide training to law enforcement and teachers in safety issues, and build awareness about personal safety for children. United Way – Youth Futures Commission PO Box 735 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15230 $1,000,000 -- This funding would be used to prevent youth violence in the Pittsburgh region, by advocating for tougher law enforcement along with intervention and community mobilization. Department of Justice, Community Orientated Policing Services, Law Enforcement Technology Funds assist law enforcement agencies in enhancing public safety through the implementation of community policing strategies. COPS does so by providing training to law enforcement officers; encouraging development of community driven initiatives to prevent crime; increasing the number of officers directly interacting with the community; and supporting the development of new technologies. Allegheny County – ThreatViewer Emergency Management Visualization System 436 Grant Street Room 101 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1,000,000 -- Allegheny County would use these federal funds to support the deployment of wireless cameras in selected high-crime areas of the Mon Valley. This funding would also be used to provide community and location-specific viewer station software of a centralized map-based display system platform to local law enforcement agencies in the municipalities in which the wireless cameras will be located. This equipment would allow local law enforcement agencies in the participating municipalities to better address local emergency situations. Borough of Etna -- Security Cameras and Police Equipment 437 Butler Street Pittsburgh PA 15223 $180,000 -- The Police Department of Etna Borough would use this funding to place cameras on the main street and in strategic places in the borough to monitor traffic and possible criminal activity. The cameras would assist the police department in controlling these problems and deterring them. The funding would also be used to train and equip Etna officers with better computer technology. Borough of McKees Rocks – Surveillance Camera Network Installation 340 Bell Avenue McKees Rocks, PA 15136 $120,000 -- The Borough of McKees Rocks would use this funding to install video surveillance cameras on a “wireless mesh” network that would capture and record criminal activity in several neighborhoods that have been identified as areas of high drug activity and violent crime associated with drug activity. In addition to recording video to a central repository, officers would be able to remotely access live camera capture via their in-car computers. Borough of Mount Oliver -- Public Surveillance Camera System 150 Brownsville Road Mount Oliver, PA 15210 $750,000 -- The requested funding would allow the Borough of Mount Oliver to continue with phase two of its Public Surveillance Camera System. Phase One consisted of five cameras installed at one location covering a five point intersection in part of the business district, which has led to a significant decrease in crime and loitering. Phase Two would add additional cameras in various locations throughout the Borough. City of Pittsburgh – Crime Watch Neighborhood Camera Security Systems 414 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2,000,000 -- The City of Pittsburgh would use these funds to purchase additional cameras for their successful CrimeWatch Neighborhood Camera Security System. This request would support deployment of camera systems in most of the requested business districts and neighborhoods across the City of Pittsburgh. The CrimeWatch Neighborhood Camera Security Systems would support deployment of 84 cameras in 34 business districts across the City of Pittsburgh. Department of Justice, Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants Funding under this program is authorized for law enforcement programs; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections programs; drug treatment and enforcement programs; planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs; and crime victim and witness programs except compensation. Cyber -Security Preparedness for Small and Medium Sized Enterprises – Duquesne University 600 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15282 $1,000,000 – Duquesne University would use this federal funding to develop cost-effective computer security training programs for small- and medium-sized businesses that can be rolled out nationally. Persad – Community Safe Zone 5150 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15224 $150,000 -- Persad would use this federal funding to expand its Community Safe Zone program, which works to reduce the rate of hate crimes and violence in the region. The PROGRAM for Offenders – The Family Reunification Project 100 N. Braddock Avenue Suite 201 Pittsburgh, PA 15208 $250,000 -- THE PROGRAM for Offenders, Inc. (TPFO) is a nonprofit organization that provides residential alternatives to incarceration, drug and alcohol treatment, and a wide range of support services to male and female offenders in Allegheny County. TPFO would use this federal funding to enhance its Family Reunification Project, which facilitates the reintegration of offenders, reduces recidivism, strengthens families, and supports children. Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh -- Emergency Shelter Project P.O. Box 9024 Pittsburgh, PA 15224 $250,000 -- The Women’s Center and Shelter, located in Pittsburgh, PA, would use this funding for its emergency shelter services. The Emergency Shelter at the Center is a 24-hour shelter that provides a comprehensive range of services for victims in addition to basic necessities such as food and clothing. The number of victims requiring the Center’s services is increasing. FY2010 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill Requests Department of Energy, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy This account funds renewable energy and energy conservation research, development, demonstration and deployment activities (RDD&D), and federal energy assistance programs. ACTION-Housing, Inc. – Weatherization and Energy Conservation Warehouse Facility 425 Sixth Ave, Suite 950 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $250,000 -- Funds would be used for the acquisition and improvement of a weatherization/energy conservation staging area. This facility would enable ACTION Housing to expand its energy conservation components and add a crew-based model to its current program. ACTION-Housing, Inc. provides low-and moderate-income clients with weatherization technology services, including a wide range of energy efficiency measures for retrofitting homes and apartment buildings. Innovation Works – National Energy Innovation Center 2000 Technology Drive Suite 250 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1,500,000 million -- Funding would be used to create a National Energy Innovation Center (NEIC) in Pittsburgh. The Center would help assess the commercialization opportunities for the National Energy Technology Laboratory’s (NETL) intellectual property, and would assist in finding appropriate commercial partners to further develop the technology. This project meets a critical need for NETL in Pennsylvania by facilitating commercialization of technologies that would otherwise never have the opportunity for market entry and never realize their potential benefit to industry or society. Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens/City of Pittsburgh -- Pyromex Community Recycler One Schenley Park Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $500,000 -- This funding would be used to develop and build an anaerobic digester that would help fuel the Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Garden’s Living Building as a part of their Bio-Gas Technology Project. This would serve as a national demonstration project for conservation and eco-restoring technology and would create a model for other bio-gas technology development. Pittsburgh Gateways – Pittsburgh Green Innovators 4514 Plummer Street Pittsburgh, PA 15201 $5,000,000 – This funding would go towards the development of a green campus to meet the increasing demand for a curriculum for workforce training programs for career paths in sustainable industry sectors. With the growth in international markets for sustainable products and services, there is strong potential for new job creation in southwestern Pennsylvania through the commercialization of innovations resulting from local research efforts. University of Pittsburgh -- Center for Energy 710 Alumni Hall 4227 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15260 $2,000,000 -- Funding would be used to further the Center’s research on cleaner combustion of coal, converting coal to hydrogen and other clean energy sources, carbon dioxide sequestration and conversion, and developing new technologies for hydrogen transportation. This funding would foster and support energy research, purchase relevant equipment, fund the participation of students in training programs and educational workshops, create jobs, and increase our understanding of desirable, feasible, and efficient energy sources and technologies. Army Corps of Engineers – General Investigations The General Investigations Account funds various investigations (such as navigation, flood damage prevention, and shoreline protection studies); comprehensive basin studies; and preconstruction engineering and design of water resources projects. Army Corps of Engineers -- Lower Monongahela Improvement Project for Locks and Dams 2, 3, and 4 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $93,000,000-- This funding would be used for construction of the River Wall approaches to the first replacement lock, advertise and award the construction contract for the first replacement lock, begin construction of the Port Perry bridge relocation, and complete municipal utility outfall relocations in pool 2. Army Corps of Engineers – Study of Turtle Creek Watershed – Upstream/Downstream Comprehensive Planning 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $100,000 -- This study would seek innovative upstream, low impact, cost-effective solutions to downstream flooding, sewer overflows, erosion, and water quality problems across all 33 communities and 147 square miles of the Turtle Creek watershed. This project would create jobs while protecting two existing Corps projects and over $30 million in adjacent and downstream properties. The methods and benefits could be replicated across the Pittsburgh region. Army Corps of Engineers -- Upper Ohio River Navigation Study for the Emsworth, Dashields, and Montgomery Locks and Dams 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $3,100,000— Funding would be used to complete a study of the condition of the Upper Ohio River Locks and Dams at Emsworth, Dashields, and Montgomery and to recommend alternatives to repair or replace them. Specifically, this funding would go towards the analysis of alternative future conditions at the projects, completion of environmental studies, formulation of recommended alternative, and preparation of the draft feasibility report. Army Corps of Engineers – Construction This account funds construction, major rehabilitation, and related activities for water resource projects whose principal purpose is to provide commercial navigation, flood and storm damage reduction, or aquatic ecosystem restoration benefits to the nation. Army Corps of Engineers -- Emsworth Dam Rehabilitation 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $35,000,000 -- Funding would be used for emergency repairs to the Emsworth Dams, which are in a progressive state of failure. Specifically, the requested funding would permit analysis of alternative future conditions at the projects, completion of environmental studies, formulation of the recommended alternative, and preparation of the draft feasibility report. Army Corps of Engineers -- Regent Square Gateway Project 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $1,875,000 -- Funding would be used to construct the Regent Square Gateway Project, a highly visible demonstration site featuring an energy dissipation structure, stream bank stabilization, and rebuilding of the major stream culvert outfall in the heart of the Nine Mile Run watershed. The project would demonstrate a variety of approaches to stormwater management. Army Corps of Engineers -- Sheraden Park and Carnegie Borough Stream Restoration Program 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $500,000 -- The Corps of Engineers would use this funding to continue two Urban Park Stream Restoration projects in Carnegie Borough Park and Sheraden Park, located in the City of Pittsburgh. Two unnamed streams in Carnegie Borough currently drain into the combined local sewer system. Restoration of these streams would eliminate some of the burden on the municipal combined sewer system and reduce the frequency, magnitude and duration of combined sewer overflows in both parks. Army Corps of Engineers -- Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program – Pine Hollow / Homestead Run Stream-Sewer Separation 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $4,000,000 -- The 3 Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Project is a partnership of the Allegheny County Sanitary Authority, eighty-three municipalities, and other parties, who are working together to control combined sewer overflows and eliminate sanitary sewer overflows in Allegheny County. A major project of this group is the removal of stream discharges from municipal combined sewers. Prior Federal assistance is supporting stream removal projects in the City of Pittsburgh, Munhall Borough and Stowe Township. This specific funding would be used on a stream removal project to address basement flooding and combined sewer overflows in Kennedy and Stowe Townships and McKees Rocks Borough and the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Munhall Borough inter-municipal trunk sewer. Army Corps of Engineers – Operations and Maintenance Funds operation, maintenance, and related activities at the water resource projects that the Corps of Engineers operates and maintains. Activities include dredging, repair, and operation of structures and other facilities. Army Corps of Engineers – Allegheny River 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $32,300,000 -- Funding would be used to operate and maintain the locks and dams in the Pittsburgh District, as well as to address critical deferred maintenance. Army Corps of Engineers -- Monongahela River 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $29,700,000 – Funding would be used to operate and maintain the locks and dams in the Pittsburgh District, as well as to address critical deferred maintenance. Army Corps of Engineers – Ohio River 1000 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $37,100,000 -- Funding would be used to operate and maintain the locks and dams in the Pittsburgh District, as well as to address critical deferred maintenance. Department of Energy: Science Funds the Department’s work on high energy physics, nuclear physics, biological and environmental sciences, basic energy sciences, advanced scientific computing, maintenance of the laboratories physical infrastructure, fusion energy sciences, safeguards and security, workforce development for teachers and scientists, safeguards and security at Office of Science facilities, and science program direction. Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center -- Focus Area for Computational Energy Science 300 South Craig Street Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $5,000,000 -- Funding for this program would enable the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) to purchase computer time from the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC) to support its advanced computational modeling program and to provide support to West Virginia University and Carnegie Mellon University for advanced computer simulation research of interest to NETL. The CES funding would also provide support for the SuperComputing Science Consortium, whose members include regional universities and other organizations that support K-12 and economic development programs in western Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia. Department of Energy, Defense Environmental Cleanup Funds from this Account are used for managing defense nuclear waste and cleaning up contaminated nuclear weapons sites. NuVision Engineering – The International Agreement 2403 Sydney St, Suite 700 Pittsburgh, PA 15203 $7,000,000 -- Funding would be used to demonstrate and deploy innovative energy and environmental technologies and methodologies which have been proven in the UK and Europe. This includes retrieval of nuclear waste from underground storage tanks; long term, safe closure of underground storage tanks and cross site transfer lines; and improving the safety of operations at Department of Energy sites through the development and deployment of advanced technologies. FY2010 Financial Services Appropriations Bill Requests Small Business Administration Account This Account funds initiatives related to small business development and entrepreneurship, including programmatic and construction activities through loans, grants, and contracting preferences. The Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse -- The Tech Belt Biosciences Initiative 100 Technology Drive, Suite 400 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $800,000 -- The Tech Belt Biosciences Initiative would use this funding to create a Tech Belt partnership among local world-class institutions conducting $1 billion in NIH research and more than 800 fast-growing local life sciences companies. This initiative would create or retain 20-60 jobs in the region and establish a replicable model for creating mega-regions that can generate far more economic growth than any city or state can do alone. The Technology Collaborative -- Southwestern Pennsylvania Advanced Robotics Accelerator 12 Federal Street, Suite 420 Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $700,000 -- Requested funding would go towards the second phase of this project, to help form joint ventures between the international and multi-national companies that are attracted to Southwestern Pennsylvania and the robotics entrepreneurs from the region’s universities and early stage start-up companies. This initiative would accelerate the formation of such joint ventures by providing the programs and funding needed to perform market research to identify and prioritize unmet end customer needs, to devise initial product and market strategies that combine the relative strengths of the proposed joint venture partners to meet these needs, to help develop very early prototype solutions, and to otherwise seed the formation of such joint venture partnerships. FY2010 Homeland Security Appropriations Bill Requests Federal Emergency Management Agency State and Local Programs Emergency Center Account FEMA makes grants to states under this title for equipping, upgrading, and constructing State and local emergency operations centers. Allegheny Conference on Community Development – Joint Readiness Center 425 Sixth Avenue, Suite 1100 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1.5 million – This funding would be used to build on work already completed in the development of national medical surge response. In conjunction with a joint-interagency team assembled by the Office of the Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense, the project will develop guidance for development of this national homeland security resource for surge management capabilities; evaluate and recommend changes to vital emergency management resource plans at the national, state, and regional levels; manage the identification of solutions to prioritized capability gaps in the existing medical response of the federal agencies; and monitor resource execution to ensure strategy alignment across local, regional, state and federal partners. The requested funding would benefit the public by improving both preparation and response for a potential national disaster, which is a core mission of the Department of Homeland Security. The Joint Readiness Center would help DHS achieve this mission by enhancing the effectiveness of current homeland security capabilities with the creation of a mega-medical response element. University of Pittsburgh -- Center for National Preparedness 707 Information Sciences 135 N. Bellefield Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15260 $1 million -- Funding would permit the University of Pittsburgh Center for National Preparedness to fund a national extension of the Pittsburgh Framework support system for the management and coordination of responses to medical emergencies and other catastrophic events. The inclusion of a situation awareness system in the Pittsburgh Framework fuses incoming data into a summary of plausible scenarios that are consistent with the uncertain evolving event. When sensors or other data are unreliable or fail, the plausible scenarios provide a primary robust and relevant basis for decision making. Funding for the extending the Pittsburgh Framework across the nation would benefit the public by providing the nation’s first responders with a significant new emergency management tool for police and fire personnel. This project would enable a higher level of coordination between private, public, and government sectors, and enhance preparedness for and response to such disasters. FY2010 Interior Appropriations Bill Requests Environmental Protection Agency, State and Tribal Assistance Grants (STAG) Funds in this account are available to help eliminate municipal discharge of untreated pollutants, to improve municipal drinking water supply infrastructure and facilities, to assist in carrying out environmental programs, and for Brownfields assessment and mediation grants. This account has also included funding to municipalities for wastewater and water treatment projects. Allegheny County Sanitation Authority (ALCOSAN)—Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program—Overflow Control Demonstration Facilities 3300 Preble Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15233-1092 $20 million -- The requested funding would go towards the design and construction of sewer overflow control facilities. These facilities would produce significant water quality improvement and provide a basis for design of future control facilities. One facility would be built along the north shore of the Allegheny River and the other facility would be built at the mouth of Homestead Run in Munhall. Allegheny Land Trust-- Water Quality Control through Strategic Land Conservation 409 Broad Street, Suite 206A Sewickley, PA 15143 $5 million --- Funding would be used to purchase land and conservation easements in Allegheny County to address the devastating impacts of flooding, landslides, water pollution and loss of the Pittsburgh region’s distinctive visual character. Char-West Council of Governments --Sewer Cleaner Truck One Veterans Way, Suite 202 Carnegie, PA 15106 $325,000— Funding would be used to purchase a new Sewer Cleaner Truck, which would allow for continuing the preventive routine and emergency maintenance of the region’s storm sewers and sanitary sewers. Clean sewers decrease the potential of flooding and disruption of local businesses and industry and promote increased economic development. The sewer cleaner will service approximately 20,000 residents in the municipalities of Crafton, Ingram, Kennedy, McKees Rocks, Neville, Robinson and Stowe. City of Clairton –Wilson Ejector Station and Sewage Plant Pipe Renovation, CCTV-Sewage Pipeline Evaluation 551 Ravensburg Blvd Clairton, PA 15025 $1,200,000—Funding would be used for wastewater treatment plant sewer repair, installation of new piping around administration building, and CCTV-sewer inspections. Five municipalities and approximately 75,000 people are served by the Clairton Sewage Plant. Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA)— Critical Pipe Inspection Program Penn Liberty Plaza 1 - 1200 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $770,000 -- The requested funding for the Critical Pipe Inspection Program (CPIP) would enable The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority (PWSA) to locate and prevent the collapse of critical pipelines under roadways, which can cost the city millions of dollars in repairs and lead to a serious public safety hazard. The deployment of Multi Sensor Inspection in underground pipe infrastructure would demonstrate the benefit of a predictive assessment and would enable more effective management of assets to save cities money and prevent sinkholes. Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy— Panther Hollow Lake Restoration 2000 Technology Drive Suite 300 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $3,050,000 – This funding would be used to rehabilitate Panther Hollow as a woodland/watershed preserve and restore the safety of the water in this urban park. This 80-acre section of historic Schenley Park in the City of Pittsburgh suffers from forest fragmentation, drainage system failure, degraded stream channels, and an ecologically stagnant lake. Funding would be used to restore the lake, repair failed infrastructure, restore the trails and bridges, remove non-native invasive species and plant natives, and to stabilize eroding slopes. Riverside Center for Innovation, North Side Industrial Development Co.— River Alert Information Network 700 River Avenue Suite 531 Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $2,500,000—Funding would be used for the purchase and installation of water quality monitoring equipment and communication technologies to recognize and analyze pollutants and provide for the ability to alert the public to these dangers to public health on the Allegheny, Monongahela, and Youghiogheny Rivers and the headwaters of the Ohio, as well as to establish a permanent agency to maintain and expand this network. National Park Service, Historic Preservation Trust, Save America’s Treasures Funds allow State historic preservation offices to perform a variety of functions, including: State management and administration of existing grant obligations; review and advice on Federal projects and actions; determinations and nominations to the National Register; Tax Act certifications; and technical preservation services. Pittsburgh Cultural Trust—Pittsburgh Cultural Trust Arts Education Center 803 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $500,000 -- Requested funding would be used to restore and renovate two of the last remaining buildings from Pittsburgh’s cast iron era. The nation’s surviving cast-iron architecture, much of which continues to be threatened, merits renewed preservation and restoration efforts. In addition, this project would create jobs and help continue the revitalization of a previously blighted area of downtown Pittsburgh while also providing a premier facility for enriching programming for children and adults alike. Steel Industry Heritage Corporation—Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area The Bost Building 623 East 8th Avenue Homestead, PA 15120 $1,000,000 -- Funds would go towards the operating expenses of the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Areas, one of 40 such Areas designated by Congress. The Rivers of Steel NHA is working to preserve our region’s heritage and educate the public about national trends in industrial development, scientific innovation and technological advancement, our labor and social history, and our country’s diverse ethnic heritage. FY2010 Labor-HHS-Education Appropriations Bill Requests Department of Health and Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Funding is provided for prevention, intervention, and treatment services for mental health, alcoholism, and other drug abuse problems. Addison Behavioral Care -- Male Mentoring Project 905 West Street Pittsburgh, PA 15221 $95,800 -- Requested funds would be used to provide drug and alcohol treatment and mentoring services to males age 14 and older exiting community placement facilities. Addison would provide 24 hour support. Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services Administration HRSA funds are directed toward a number of different types of projects, including: construction and/or renovation of health facilities; acquisition of capital equipment including laboratory and diagnostic machines; projects to improve education and training of healthcare professionals, or to analyze workforce trends and needs; projects to improve health care in rural areas, both through research and outreach; and funding for telemedicine, distance learning, or use of information technology to improve healthcare. Center for Hearing & Deaf Services, Inc. 1945 5th Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $300,000 -- Funding would go towards support services for individuals who are deaf-blind. Specifically, this program would assist the deaf-blind in food and clothes shopping, reading mail, going to doctor’s appointments, and other activities of daily living with which they need assistance. Currently there is no program that provides these supports in this region. Children’s Hospital – Expanded Neurosurgery Center 1251 Waterfront Place Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $2,500,000 -- The requested funding would go towards the purchase of a CT scanner to use at its pediatric hospital in Western Pennsylvania. Physicians at Children’s Hospital have performed more than 2,500 neurological procedures, including more than 700 minimally invasive endoscopic procedures that require the use of a CT scanner in their operating room. After moving to a new campus, the Children’s Hospital no longer has access to a CT scanner in the operating room. The CT scanner is among the high technology equipment that allows these specialists to perform high-risk, complicated surgeries with the least amount of invasion and the quickest, most thorough recoveries. Electronic Medical Records Implementation Project -- The Children’s Home of Pittsburgh and Lemieux Family Center 5324 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15224 $1,000,000 -- The requested funds would be used to complete the conversion to Electronic Medical Records for a 28-bed pediatric specialty hospital and pediatric extended care center in Allegheny County, PA. These programs are on the cutting edge of an emerging national model of pediatric health care, which seeks to provide children with the same wide range of services available to adults. The implementation of Electronic Medical Records is part of a continuing trend to provide specialized services that reduce costs and allow for sharing patient information (lab results, public health reporting) which are necessary for timely, patient-centered and portable care. Jewish Healthcare Foundation – Improving Patient Outcomes 650 Smithfield Street Suite 2400 Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $100,000 -- Funding would go towards a one-year project designed to increase the involvement and impact of pharmacists in hospital and long term care settings across Southwestern Pennsylvania in the care of chronically ill, hospitalized, and subsequently discharged, patients. Through the project, patient and provider education and tracking tools would be developed and tested. Marian Manor -- Sprinkling and Fire Safety System 2695 Winchester Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15220-4099 $100,000 -- Funding would go towards equipping two buildings Marian Manor’s long term care facility with the appropriate life-saving fire safety equipment. Mercy Behavioral Health -- Integrated Physical, Mental, Behavioral, and Dental Health Care 1200 Reedsdale Street Pittsburgh, PA 15233 $528,300 -- Funds would create a family medical and dental practice that would allow Mercy to provide integrated physical, dental and behavioral health services to the most vulnerable members of its community, including psychiatrically and medically complex, disabled, and chronically homeless individuals in the Pittsburgh area. Ohio Valley General Hospital -- Nuclear Medicine Technology and Facilities Upgrade Project 25 Heckel Road McKees Rocks, PA 15136 $450,000 -- Funding would be used to purchase a nuclear medicine camera and related equipment and technology at Ohio Valley General Hospital. Nuclear medicine scans are a method of diagnostic imaging that is unique, cost-effective, painless and safe in the appropriate patient populations. Passavant Memorial Homes Foundation – Mobile Dental Unit 100 Passavant Way Pittsburgh, PA 15238 $400,000 -- The requested funding would be used to purchase a mobile dental unit to provide dental support services to individuals with developmental disabilities across Western Pennsylvania. University of Pittsburgh Medical Center – Steps to a Healthy Community Program 400 Holland Ave Braddock, PA 15104 $500,000 -- Funding would be used to support the Steps to a Healthy Community program which focuses on eliminating barriers to health care services needed by nearby low-income households through aggressive case finding and engagement tactics, interventions to access health insurance or charity care, health education and disease prevention activities, and intensive interventions with patient compliance support and monitoring. Wellspring Worldwide, LLC -- The Health Data Network 333 E. Carson Street, Suite 537E Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $404,000 -- Proposed funding would provide ultra-mobile, computerized health data collection devices to clinics, physicians, and care facilities in underserved communities. These compact touch screen computers enable doctors to administer health questionnaires and collect data from patients before and during a patient visit. This type of network provides affordable infrastructure for those in underserved communities to ensure that every citizen benefits from modern medical technology. The Western Pennsylvania Hospital -- Ambulatory Electronic Health Records 4800 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15224 $1,000,000 -- Requested funding would be used for the implementation of an ambulatory electronic health record system for the 700 providers of the West Penn Allegheny Health System Physician Organization. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control This account supports activities deemed as having high scientific and programmatic priority or as necessary to respond to public health emergencies, including: support for public health departments, education and outreach, and response and preparedness for bioterrorism. Children’s Institute – Autism Research 1405 Shady Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15217-1350 $1,000,000 -- Funding would support research focused on increasing understanding of the relationship between the environment and autism and using this knowledge to develop treatments to lessen the symptoms of autism and interventions to protect children from environmental triggers in the first place. Collaborative Testing Initiative -- Pittsburgh AIDS Taskforce 5913 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $211,000 – This funding would provide on-site HIV/AIDS testing services in Allegheny County Probation Centers for re-entry population from Allegheny County jail and state prisons. This will include partner notification done in collaboration with the Allegheny County Health Dept. This effort will serve a high-risk population in a community setting. SIDS of PA -- Cribs for Kids Program 810 River Avenue, Suite 250 Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $300,000 -- Funding would be used to disseminate information on Sudden Infant Death Syndrome (SIDS), including a safe-sleep video that will be distributed to all 118 birthing hospitals in Pennsylvania along with Safe Sleep for Your Baby brochures and other educational materials. If families cannot afford a crib, this funding will support the purchase. Department of Education, Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education Funding is available for a wide variety of higher education projects, including: projects to hire and train faculty, develop and improve curricula, establish and improve degree programs, improve teacher prep programs, upgrade technology and telecommunications, acquire science laboratory equipment, provide student support, implement university partnerships with school districts, and establish research and training centers. Greater Pittsburgh Literacy Council – Adult Education Support 100 Sheridan Square Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $400,000 – Requested funding would support programs at the Greater Pittsburgh Literacy Council that provide adults with free instruction in areas such as reading, math, writing, English as a second language, and GED preparation. Point Park University -- Engineering Education Enhancement Project 201 Wood Street Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $200,000 -- Funds would be used to upgrade the civil engineering labs to provide students with hands-on experience with the most modern, industry-specific equipment so students can be career-ready upon graduation. Point Park also seeks to enhance its electrical engineering lab, particularly in the area of power electronics, to meet current and future industry needs. Reach Out and Read Reach Out and Read National Center 56 Roland Street Boston, MA 02129 $10 million - Reach Out and Read is a national program authorized under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act that promotes literacy and language development in infants and young children, targeting disadvantage and poor children and families. Through fifteen years of peer-reviewed and published research, an extensive body of documentation now clearly demonstrates the importance of promoting early language and literacy skills so that children have the essential reading skills to begin school successfully. Yet today, a large number of children do not receive the necessary support and assistance to develop these skills and begin kindergarten read to learn. To close this gap, the federal government provides funding for a variety of literacy programs and strategies that reach children and parents, and the professionals who interact with them. ROR has proven to among the most effective strategies to promote early language and literacy development and school readiness: pediatricians and other healthcare providers guide and encourage parents to read aloud to their children from their earliest years of their life, and send them home from each doctor visit with books and a prescription to read together. Currently, nearly 50,000 doctors and nurses have been trained in ROR’s proven strategies, and more than 3,500 clinics and hospitals nationwide are implementing the program, reaching more than 25% of America’s at-risk-children. Funding provided by Congress through the U.S. Department of Education has been matched by tens of millions of dollars from the private sector and state governments. Department of Education, Fund for the Improvement of Education This account primary funds elementary and secondary education activities such as instruction services, after-school centers, curricula development, teacher training, acquisition of books and computers, arts education, special education, and early childhood education. In general, the focus of FIE is to provide educational services to K-12 students. Carnegie Library – Increasing Library Accessibility for Kids 4400 Forbes Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $100,000 -- The funding would be used to establish a program to ensure that every school student in the City of Pittsburgh has a library card and knows about the resources and opportunities available at their neighborhood library. ASSET Inc. – ASSET for Math 2403 Sidney Street Suite 800 Pittsburgh, PA 15203 $200,000 -- The requested funding would go towards the development of the ASSET 4 Math program to assist schools in implementing standards-aligned math programs that include both hands-on, inquiry-based instructional materials and ongoing teacher professional development designed to improve student achievement in mathematics. East End Cooperative Ministry -- Violence Prevention Program 250 N. Highland Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $150,000 -- The requested funding would go to support programs to increase children’s knowledge and skills concerning how to negotiate, reduce, and assist in the prevention of youth violence, and to change their beliefs and attitudes about engaging in violent behaviors that put themselves and their community at risk. The program will target approximately 150 children in kindergarten through sixth grade to reduce children’s attraction to and participation in chronic community violence. Lifespan -- Mobile Technology Training Facility 100 West Station Square Drive, Suite 500 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $300,000 -- Funding would be used to provide a mobile technology training facility to benefit older Pennsylvanians in Allegheny County. This mobile technology training facility would provide over 100,000 elderly Pennsylvanians the opportunity to learn basic computing skills like how to access the internet and email. Manchester Bidwell -- The Learning ARC: Teachers First Program 1815 Metropolitan Street Pittsburgh, PA 15233 $500,000 -- The requested funding would support the Learning ARC program that uses the visual arts to connect content concepts and skills as well as teachers to each other – e.g. math to science and communications to social studies – by providing teachers the tools for collaboration and planning, as well as assessment that measures actual student learning. The program has significantly positive documented results, including reduced teacher absenteeism, positive school environment, effective behavior and classroom management skills, increased instructional time, and reduction of problem behavior incidents per student. Sarah Heinz House -- Robotics Program One Heinz Street Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $100,000 -- The requested funding would be used to expand the current Robotics Program for at risk youth at the Sarah Heinz House. The Sarah Heinz House, a non-profit Boys & Girls Club, provides children and teenagers with powerful role models and a safe, fun place to go after school, on weekends, and in the summer. The after-school and summer robotics program teaches at risk youth problem-solving skills in addition to STEM concepts as they build and program a robot. WQED -- Stories Start Action 4802 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $85,000 -- The requested funding would be used to carry out the Stories Start Action Language Arts and character education program to schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration Funding in this account must meet the following requirements: 1) must include direct services to individuals to enhance employment opportunities; 2) must demonstrate a linkage with the local workforce investment system; and 3) must contain an evaluation component. City of Pittsburgh -- Pittsburgh Youth Employment Plan 414 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1,500,000 -- Funding would allow the City of Pittsburgh to expand its “Pittsburgh Summer Youth Employment Program” and implement the new “Your Turn 2 Intern Program for Mentoring and Internship”. The mission of both programs is to engage city youth in work experience and career exploration opportunity while providing them with knowledge, skills and abilities. Community College of Allegheny County -- Labor Management Institute and Urban Workforce Training Center 235 College Office 800 Allegheny Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15233 $300,000 -- Funds would go to the creation of a Labor Management Institute that would promote student readiness and understanding of the opportunities for continued employment provided by the significant expected growth in the trades, as well as the desire of local unions to have a credentialed, skilled, professional workforce. Housed within the Institute would be a newly created Urban Workforce Training Center to provide training and career transition services, as well as address small business needs in collaboration with the area’s public schools. Ironworkers Joint Apprenticeship and Journeyman Retraining Committee -- Joint Apprenticeship and Journeyman Retraining Program 2315 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $750,000 -- The requested funds would be used for an expansion of the Ironworkers Local Union No. 3 Training Center. This includes hiring and training new instructors and updating the training of the current instructors with the latest OSHA safety and health training. This initiative keeps local labor employed and up to speed with new technologies and requirements. MAGLEV Inc. – Precision Fabrication Technology 1905 Technology Center 1100 Industry Road, Box 11 McKeesport PA 15132 $2,000,000 -- The funding would provide an educational avenue for unemployed and incumbent workers as well as for youth coming into the workforce from high school. MAGLEV Inc. would prepare and implement a curriculum of coursework designed to train individuals in the field of precision fabrication technology. This would keep local workers employed and prevent higher unemployment in Southwestern PA. Pittsburgh Job Corps Center -- Greenhouse Enhancement and Sustainability Project 7175 Highland Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15206 $45,000 -- Funds would be used to create a living lab to teach greenhouse sustainability concepts. The greenhouse would include a system for converting organic waste stream from the center (cafeteria, grounds maintenance, and office) into compost for use in the greenhouse. Riverside Center for Innovation, North Side Industrial Development Co.— New Business-New Beginning 700 River Ave. Suite 531 Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $150,000 -- Funding would go towards an entrepreneurial program to train dislocated workers in SW PA to start their own businesses, with supporting programs and on-site mentors. Robert Morris University -- Veterans Entrepreneurial Training Project 600 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $250,000 -- The requested funding would go towards an entrepreneurship training and certification program designed for Veterans. The program works to recruit, prepare, support and develop veterans as successful business and franchise owners and productive community members. It focuses on veterans currently operating businesses or seeking to start their own businesses. Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall and Museum Trust, Inc. – Veteran Remembrance 4141 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $100,000 -- Funding would be used to provide support services to returning military and their families through career fairs, seminars, and other needed employment support events. Veterans Leadership Program of Western Pennsylvania (VLP) -- Research and Education Experience for Soldiers 2417 East Carson Street Pittsburgh, PA 15203 $90,000 -- Funding would go towards the Research and Education Experience for Soldiers project, a collaboration between the Department of Defense, Veterans Administration, University of Pittsburgh and the Veterans Leadership Program of Western Pennsylvania. The program includes rehabilitation, community reintegration, faculty and peer mentoring, educational assistance, study groups and support networks for wounded veterans, with the goal of preparing these veterans for either continued military service or community reintegration. Department Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Social Services and Income Maintenance Research Funding is allocated for research or for projects relating to subjects such as family violence prevention, teen welfare, abstinence education, and facilitating transition from welfare to work. Angel’s Place, Inc. -- School Readiness for At-Risk Children of Low-Income Single Parent Students 2615 Norwood Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15216 $75,000 -- Funding would be used for intensive early education for the 0- to 5-year-old children of low-income single parents who are full-time students, at no cost to the parent. The families would also be provided additional support services to foster their success, such as assistance in meeting basic needs, social work services, mandatory weekly parenting classes, referrals to community resources, parent tutoring as needed and job placement assistance. Homeless Children’s Education Fund -- Network Project 2100 Smallman Street Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $200,000 -- The requested funding would be used to strengthen capacity within 17 partnering homeless shelters throughout Allegheny County by providing homeless youth with after-school programs and advanced training for shelter staff and parents in child development and education. Department of Education, Institute for Museums and Libraries Funding is available for libraries to acquire books, upgrade computers and technology, and establish education and outreach programs, in addition to funding for public museums, aquariums, zoos, botanical gardens, planetariums, and nature sites. Senator John Heinz History Center – Educational Programs 1212 Smallman Street Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $325,000 -- Funding would go towards education projects at the History Center which focus on providing services and materials for elementary and secondary school students and teachers to aid them in meeting the Pennsylvania State History Standards. FY 2010 Transportation-HUD Appropriations Bill Requests Department of Housing and Urban Development, Economic Development Initiatives Funds economic development projects, including renovations, construction and community programs. This is one of the few accounts that fund “bricks and mortar” projects. Borough of Bellevue – Park Renovation 537 Bayne Ave Pittsburgh, PA 15202 $250,000 – Funding would be used for reconstruction of the roads and paving of the parking areas that lead to and are located within the developed area of Bellevue Memorial Park. Funding would also be used to resurface the basketball court, resurface and fence the tennis court, and purchase ADA-accessible playground equipment for children ages 2-5 and 5-12, as well as replace the playground’s wood chips with safety rubber chips. Borough of West Mifflin -- Recreation Complex 3000 Lebanon Church Road West Mifflin, Pa. 15122 $300,000 -- Funding would be used for the development, construction and operation of a multi-purpose recreation complex that would be designed and constructed to be used by all age groups. The recreation complex would have both indoor and outdoor activities and would be open year round and would provide facilities and activities for all age groups. Braddock Redux -- Braddock Community Center 416 Library Street, PO Box 416 Braddock, PA 15104 $100,000 -- Funding would be used to repurpose an historic and formerly abandoned structure on Library Street to return it to use as a full-service community center. City of Duquesne -- Center of the City Initiative 12 South Second Street Duquesne, PA 15110 $150,000 -- The proposed funding would further revitalization efforts in the city around the intersection of Grant Avenue and Duquesne Boulevard, which serves as the primary access point to the RIDC Riverplace-The Center City of Duquesne 250-acre site, the Monongahela River and the Great Allegheny Passage Trail. City of McKeesport -- Multi-Purpose Community Facility 500 Fifth Avenue McKeesport, PA 15132 $250,000 -- The City of McKeesport would use this funding for a new, multi-purpose community facility. The Commercial Banking Institution, Sky Bank, has built new offices in the downtown and donated the bank building and land to the City. The land would be the site for the new multi purpose community facility. The new facility will be an ADA accessible, multi-purpose assembly room for public meeting facilities/auditorium. This edifice will be a multi-purpose public-private destination point with professional offices(s) and agency services, both of which will generate foot traffic in the central core business district. Mount Washington Community Development Corporation -- Site Acquisition Project 301 Shiloh Street Pittsburgh, PA 15211 $675,000 – The funding would be used to acquire parcels outlined in a 2008 Business District Vision Plan that would lead to essential new developments. Oakland Business Improvement District (OBID) -- Innovation Oakland 235 Atwood Street Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $250,000 -- Innovation Oakland, a community-wide infrastructure initiative that highlights the Oakland community as the center of new technology and research would use this funding to combine technology, design, sustainable practices and multi-layered community planning with innovative energy-efficient practices in order to provide a comprehensive public signage and information system. Spanning four square miles of pedestrian-packed environments, Innovation Oakland would include pedestrian signage, historical markers and both traditional and digital web based kiosk systems to serve as a pedestrian guide for the Oakland community. Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation (PHLF) -- Beechview Business District Revitalization Project 100 West Station Square Drive, Suite 450 Pittsburgh, PA 15219-1134 $225,000 -- Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation would use this funding to redevelop up to four key properties in the Beechview business district and recruit economically viable businesses to the area. The buildings included in this project would be thoroughly restored, with the upper floors being brought back to their original use as residential units and the ground floor space being utilized as retail/commercial space. Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, Transportation & Community & System Preservation This account provides grants to states and local governments for planning, developing, and implementing strategies to integrate transportation, community and system preservation plans and practices. Pittsburgh Cultural Trust -- Cultural District Riverfront Development Project 803 Liberty Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15222 $1 million – This project would cover the 10th Street Bypass, which currently limits access to the city’s riverfront, and connect the riverfront amenity directly to the surrounding neighborhood and into the city fabric. Requested funds would be used for planning and design, streetscape improvements, and signal synchronization. Riverlife Task Force Mon Wharf Switchback 425 Sixth Ave Suite 1340 Pittsburgh, PA 15129 $2 million -- This funding would be used to build the second phase of the Mon Wharf Switchback project. The Mon Wharf Switchback is a vertical and ADA accessible stair and ramp connection from The Mon Wharf Landing to the Smithfield Street Bridge. This phase would complete the connections between Downtown, The Mon Wharf Landing, the Eliza Furnace Trail, the Allegheny Passage, Three Rivers Park, and Point State Park. This project will reconnect people to the riverfront, complete a regional trail system, and provide a venue for local and regional events. Sports and Exhibition Authority of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County – Convention Center Riverfront Park 425 Sixth Avenue, Suite 2750 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2,000,000 -- The requested funding would be used to complete the Convention Center Riverfront Park. The park will run from the Rachel Carson Bridge to the Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge along the south shore of the Allegheny River, a currently inaccessible shoreline adjacent to the Convention Center. The park will provide a vital pedestrian link between Point State Park, the Cultural Trust Park and the Strip District, as well as additional public green space, areas for Convention Center and city patrons to use, and locations for both private and commercial boats to dock. Department of Transportation, Federal Transit Administration, Buses and Bus Facilities These funds are available for the acquisition, maintenance, and operations of buses and bus facilities Borough of Homestead -- Steel Valley Revitalization 1705 Maple Street Homestead, PA 15120 $150,000 -- The requested funding would go towards implementing a Comprehensive Urban Design Plan that was completed in 2000 to guide redevelopment efforts in the State Route 837 Corridor (Eighth Avenue) in the Boroughs of Homestead, West Homestead and Munhall. Specifically, the requested funding would go towards many remaining infrastructure needs in this National Historic District. Port Authority of Allegheny County -- East Busway Rehabilitation and Enhancement Project 345 Sixth Avenue Pittsburgh, Pa 15222 $25 million -- Funding would be used to improve the pedestrian and vehicular access and related infrastructure along the existing Martin Luther King, Jr. East Busway in the City of Pittsburgh. The project includes two pedestrian access bridges and a parking deck. Port Authority of Allegheny County – Purchase of Hybrid Buses 345 Sixth Avenue Pittsburgh, Pa 15222 $10,000,000 – The Port Authority would use this funding to purchase additional hybrid buses, which have been proven to reduce fuel consumption, maintenance costs, and air pollution. These hybrid buses emit 95 percent less particulate matter than the buses they would replace. The new hybrid vehicles produce 40% less oxides of nitrogen, and reduce greenhouse gases by 30%. Oakland Transportation Management Association – 5th Avenue Bus Railing Replacement Project 235 Atwood Street, 3rd floor Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $471,000 – The requested funding would go towards the replacement of 1,570 feet of bus railing that was installed in 1990. Wear and tear has significantly decreased the structural integrity of the original railing, which offers a critical separation between the busy pedestrian sidewalk and the adjacent contra-flow bus lane on 5th Avenue, one of three main arterials in the Oakland neighborhood of the City of Pittsburgh. FY 2010 Defense Appropriations Bill Requests Advanced Regenerative Medicine Therapies for Combat Injury Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative, Inc. 100 Technology Drive Suite 200 Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $5 million from RDTE Army – Over 4,259 troops have died on the battlefield in Iraq, and more than 40,000 have been injured. Traumatic injury is the cause of nearly all military casualties. At home in the U.S., such injuries also cause more than 200,000 American deaths, and account for billions of dollars in healthcare costs, every year. The urgent need for regenerative medicine therapies and enhanced technologies is especially important right now. PTEI is uniquely situated to mobilize a rapid, nationwide effort to produce improvements in the clinical practice of regenerative medicine with the primary and immediate focus placed on improving combat casualty care. Advanced Technology Water Purification System Alion Science & Technology 1789 Braddock Street Suite 400 Pittsburgh, PA 15218 $5.8 million from RDTE Defense-Wide – Potable water is indispensible for operations of expeditionary military units. The maximum currently achievable water desalination production, by a mobile system, is 100,000 gallons per day. Starting with the design of the Navy EUWP prototype, this program would develop a road-mobile, air-transportable system to provide 300,000 gallons per day of potable water to expeditionary military forces and to support emergency civil operations. The program will result in a prototype of a semi-militarized/heavy duty commercial 300,000 gpd advanced technology water purification plant designed to support both military expeditionary requirements and civilian disaster relief by generating potable water from coastal seawater and other sources. As an expeditionary prototype the unit would supply two grades of product water—potable water and a high grade potable in the event of NBC contamination. The program would also produce technical documentation supporting operation and maintenance of the plant. Curved Beam Technology MAGLEV Inc. 1905 Technology Center 1100 Industry Road, Box 11 McKeesport, PA 15132 $5 million from RDTE Navy – This funding would be used to develop innovative Navy ship hulls for stealthy efficient operation at sea, working with NAVSEA’s Naval Surface Warfare Center (NSWC) Carderock Division’s Center for Innovative Ship Design CISD. MAGLEV, Inc. has been singled out by ONR as the precision fabrication center to advance naval engineering and help develop processes for joining various materials for new generation ship hulls and components, thus ensuring a healthy US ability to develop innovative designs for Naval vessels. Extremity War Trauma Research Foundation The Extremity War Trauma Research Foundation 5840 Ellsworth Avenue Suite 304 Pittsburgh, PA 15232 $2 million from RDTE Army – Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom have resulted in approximately 4,000 deaths to soldiers engaged in military operations. Technological and research advancements have saved countless lives of military personnel; over 90% of the soldiers wounded in Iraq survive due to improvements in body armor and battlefield medicine. Of those who have survived blast-related injuries, approximately 82% suffer major limb extremity trauma, and 6% of those undergo amputations. The cost for these injuries has been estimated at $65 million in direct care and $169 million in disability costs. There is limited support for orthopaedic trauma research related to war injuries. This was referenced at the Extremity War Injury Symposium IV held in Washington, DC, January 2009, where it was noted that current funding for extremity trauma research is lacking and that existing programs have been unable to adequately support the significant number of research proposals received on an annual basis. Existing funding opportunities are focused on multi-center consortiums, which will generate clinical trials in areas of military relevance. There remains a need for smaller, translational projects that can provide proof of concept for unique new research ideas, while also providing funding for promising young clinician scientists developing careers within this area of research and for established senior investigators interested in pursuing this important area of research. The Extremity War Trauma Research Foundation (EWTRF) would use this funding to expand the number of research projects conducted by its investigators. The use of this funding would be for multi-year research grant awards to as many quality science projects within this area as possible, with the hope to fund at least 5-6 in the 2010 research grant cycle. EWTRF has instituted a multi-level review process, including a pre-application and full programmatic and scientific review. The external review board is comprised of experts with various backgrounds, including orthopaedic surgeons, engineers, and active duty or veteran physicians. Scoring and subsequent funding would be based upon scientific merit, translational significance of the project, ability of the project to lead to improved extremity trauma care within a 5 year period, utilization of relevant trauma models and patient populations, qualifications of the applicant, and impact on the development of treatment and restorative function. Through funding research in traumatic orthopaedics, improved treatment outcomes and decreased complications during recovery from blast injuries would result in greater return to duty rates, improved quality of life after service, quicker recovery from injury, and less money needed for long term care and rehabilitation in military hospital systems. The research funded Eye-Safe Standoff Fusion Detection (ESFD) of CBE Threats Chem Image Corporation 7301 Penn Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15208 $3.9 million from RDTE Army – This funding would be used to enhance the capabilities of the Eye-Safe Standoff Fusion Detection (ESFD) of CBE Threats project to include real-time on-the-move capabilities; as well as to design, build and field test a fully integrated Gen II stand-off eye-safe sensor that includes integration of the sensor on an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV). These sensors would allow rapid detection of toxic chemicals and/or biological threats, as well as explosives, at standoff distances. KC-135 Advanced Squadron Level Simulator (ASLS) Program Fidelity Flight Simulation, Inc. 1476 Spring Garden Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15212 $200,000 from Operations and Maintenance Air National Guard – This funding would be used for the first year project management and oversight for placement of an Advanced Squadron Level Simulator in each of two ANG refueling wings. The ASLS is an affordable, immersive, and high fidelity flight simulator, which allows full flight training, customized training scenarios for mission rehearsal, and fault/emergency training which cannot be conducted in the aircraft. Each ASLS will be type specific for KC-135 flight, aircraft, and auxiliary systems, and will feature training scenarios customized for ANG mission-specific requirements. Distributed Mission Operations (DMO) capability will allow networked training with the ANG KC-135 Boom Operator Station (BOSS). The cost benefit for the American taxpayer is exceptionally high, allowing a net cost savings in the first full year of operations. The DoD will be able to provide a higher standard of KC-135 training, yet realize savings on each ASLS deployed of close to $10 million per year for an initial investment of only $4 million. Low Cost Nanotechnology to Enable Advanced Material Solutions for DoD PPG Industries, Inc. One PPG Place Pittsburgh, PA 15272 $4 million from RDTE Army – This funding would be used to fully optimize and prove out the pilot plasma reactor design and engineering, as well as to expand capabilities to include non-oxide ceramic and metallic nanoparticles that can meet the cost and performance requirements for DoD and commercial application needs. Examples of relevant applications include lightweight body armor (boron carbide), ballistic transparencies (spinel, aluminum oxynitride), battery and energy storage materials, energetics, air and water filtration materials, and printable electronics. Cost reductions of as much as ten to 100 times the cost of currently available nanomaterials are possible utilizing this technology. Micro Inertial Navigation Unit Technology Virtus Advanced Sensors Gulf Tower, Suite 3200 707 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2 million from RDTE Army – MEMS are miniature, electrically driven mechanical structures. An INU is a navigation aid that uses motion sensors to continuously track the position, orientation, and velocity (direction and speed of movement) of a moving object without the need for external references. The Department of Defense continues to explore the use of MEMS INUs for various applications such as “smart” munitions navigation and guidance, miniaturization of UAVs and UGVs, pilot attitude detection, warfighter position tracking and biohazard/health monitoring, among other uses. Development of the proposed single chip 5, 6-axis MEMS INU would significantly advance the performance and possible applications of this technology at a much lower cost and size. This new system would integrate global positioning system (GPS) and inertial navigation functions to enable navigation and tracking effectively and accurately for various functions in all environments, including regions where GPS is unavailable due to terrain masking, enemy jamming or other environmental factors. Funding would be utilized to support the design and development of sensor prototypes and eventually a number of applications that would include the developed INU. ARDEC is particularly interested in applying this ground-breaking technology to gun-launched munitions and handheld navigation systems. Additionally, there would be a tremendous cost savings to the taxpayer due to Virtus’ ability to simultaneously increase the capabilities of such sensor technology while drastically reducing the size and cost of production. Also, for example, the Army is currently using a very successful anti-sniper targeting system that has been widely successful in assisting soldiers with early identification of enemy sniper positions particularly in urban settings. These systems currently use a 2-axis IMU to help the user re-acquire a locked-in target after a change in position. In order to outfit every warfighter with such systems, the systems would need to be more accurate (i.e. at least 3-axis and beyond) and less expensive to produce. Virtus is proposing to provide such a solution. Also, The 5, 6-axis MEMS INU could be used in boots and helmets of every soldier in the field in order to keep precise track of position regardless of whether or not GPS is accessible overhead. Troops will increasingly use micro/mini-UAVs to perform reconnaissance missions before entering hostile areas, all of which require 5, 6-axis motion sensing capability that is accurate, has a very small footprint and inexpensive to produce. Development of this technology is currently outside any capabilities being explored by the public or private sector. Mosaic Camera Technology Transition L3 Integrated Optical Systems – Brashear 615 Epsilon Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15238 $3.5 million from RDTE Defense-Wide – Funding this production transition for the SST telescope will reduce the time to deploy additional systems, filling a critical gap in our space situational awareness. It will develop an effective industrial partner for the production of the unique cameras required and fulfill the FFRDC technology transition mandate. This effort will transition the camera assembly technology to an acceptable industry partner. The task is more than just a hand-off of drawings and procedures. Successful, but time consuming, techniques were developed by MIT/LL to align the mosaic of imager chips with the required focal surface. In this task, all aspects of alignment and metrology will be assessed. Viable alternative fixturing and measurement instruments will be prototyped and evaluated. This will both improve the producability of the camera and validate the effectiveness of the technology transition. In addition to the key aspect of imager chip alignment, operational experience with the prototype camera will be used to guide performance, reliability or manufacturability improvements in the camera and its support systems. Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Commercialization Center Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Com 2000 Technology Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15129 $3 million from RDTE Air Force – The Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Commercialization Center has worked closely with the Air Force Research Laboratory at Wright Paterson Air Force Base to identify key nanomaterials technologies which are critical to the future materials technology needs of the Air Force. These technologies have been incorporated into the Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Center’s Technology Roadmap. The center has invited research and commercialization proposals from university researchers and small and large companies to further develop nanomaterials research which matches this roadmap. Through a peer review process, the center provides seed funding to the most promising of these projects. The center provides a more efficient mechanism for the DoD to create ideas for new solutions, and quickly producing prototypes from those solutions using nanomaterials. For FY 2010, the center would use this funding to expand this program across a wider range of nanomaterials technologies and projects, including new applications in energy, to accelerate the use of these technologies into new products and processes to meet Air Force needs. Perpetually Available and Secure Information Systems (PASIS) program Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $8 million from RDTE Army – This funding would be used to develop and deploy effective solutions to major cyber security threats. The continued rise in cyber security threats and the clear emergence of cyber warfare practices that has been demonstrated in events around the globe place a premium on the need to rapidly develop and deploy technologies that can respond to evolving operational needs. This program has demonstrated a clear capacity to identify emerging threats, and develop test and deploy countermeasures and security solutions. The program has predicted and helped deploy countermeasures to two major threats that have emerged to the Department of Defense computer and communications systems. Similarly the program played a critical role in identifying threats to the security sensor networks and aided the rapid commercialization of technology solutions. At the heart of this capacity to deliver high quality solutions is the program’s unique capacity to integrate participation by Department of Defense researchers and over 25 major corporations with the ability to generate the creation of cyber security related start-ups. More than 6 new companies have been created by the program and these new start-ups afford an additional critical means of rapidly bringing research to both the field of operations and the commercial marketplace. Physiologic Resuscitation and Inflammation Modulating Environment (PRIME) University of Pittsburgh Medical Center U.S. Steel Tower 600 Grant Street Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2.5 million from Defense Health Program – An individual who is stabilized for air evacuation out of theater to Landsduhl Regional Medical Center may be at risk for complications following hemorrhagic shock. Hemorrhagic shock is what happens when organs are deprived of oxygen due to severe blood loss. While the patient may have his blood volume and pressure restored, there are longer-term risks as his body experiences both physiological and inflammatory responses to the hemorrhagic shock incident. The ideal resuscitation platform is a self-regulating closed-loop system. This system would provide the appropriate amount of fluid to restore blood volume after hemorrhage along with a wide range of interventions aimed at restoring normal oxygen delivery to the tissues, but also inflammation-modulating therapy that will lead to restored multi-system homeostasis (internal stability). The ultimate objective of this project is to create an automated patient management system that acts on diagnostic data to deliver appropriate customized treatment to patients. Customized models would be developed for each war fighter, perhaps based on standardized stress tests that would be conducted during the war fighter’s training period. Pre-Hospital Assessment and Treatment for Hemorrhagic Shock, Resuscitation and Polytrauma with Advanced Polynitroxylated Pegylated Hemoglobin Therapeutics (PNPH Therapeutics) Safar Center for Resuscitation Research University of Pittsburgh School of M 3434 Fifth Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15260 $4.3 million from RDTE Army – The funding would lead to life-saving trials of treatment for hemorrhagic shock, resuscitation and polytrauma with advanced Polynitroxylated Pegylated Hemoglobin Therapeutics (PNPH Therapeutics). These studies would ultimately improve the delivery of paramedic emergency care in urban and rural communities, with novel polynitroxylated compounds that protect organs after injuries, effectively buying time for transport to emergency rooms or trauma centers for life-saving medical and surgical interventions to be implemented. The PNPH therapeutics program would improve emergency care to civilian trauma, stroke and heart attack victims throughout the United States, reducing medical complications, saving lives and reducing healthcare costs. Also, most importantly, the availability of a safe and effective blood substitute like PNPH with potent anti-oxidant, multiple organ and neuroprotective benefits for life-saving interventions is critically needed by the military to help save the lives of seriously injured combat casualties suffering polytrauma and massive hemorrhage. Currently the FDA has terminated all blood substitute trials because of toxic, vasoconstrictive toxicities including mortality in subjects. The polynitroxylated, pegylated hemoglobin (PNPH) to be tested with this funding has no vasoconstrictive effects and dramatically provides a small volume blood substitute oxygen-carrying capacity, very potent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects to protect multiple organs and provide neuroprotective benefits improving outcomes in preliminary research. The initiative would develop a super colloid, oxygen therapeutic for pre-hospital resuscitation in settings of hemorrhagic shock and polytrauma critically important in combat casualty care. The military has always had an ongoing requirement for a safe and effective small volume blood substitute for combat casualty care. Most importantly, the availability of a safe and effective blood substitute like PNPH with potent anti-oxidant, multiple organ and neuroprotective benefits for life-saving interventions is critically needed by the military to help save the lives of seriously injured combat casualties suffering polytrauma and massive hemorrhage. Also, the PNPH therapeutics program will improve emergency care to civilian trauma, stroke and heart attack victims throughout the United States, reducing medical complications, saving lives and reducing healthcare costs. Rapid Wound Healing Cell Technology Stemnion, Inc. 100 Technology Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15213 $4.5 million from RDTE Army – The development of these technologies will aid in the treatment of combat injuries and trauma. The use of Amnion-derived, Multi-potent Progenitor Cells (AMPs) and Amnion-derived Cellular Cytokine Suspension (ACCS) technologies may provide new therapies for more effective treatment of injuries due to blast, burn and penetrating trauma. Wound healing cell technologies are an appropriate target for DoD investment since military personnel are at risk for terrible and devastating wounds that these therapies are being developed to treat. The technologies being developed will also eventually be able to be used medically in the general population and will increase the efficiency of treatment for people with certain conditions. Remote VBIED Detection and Defeat System (RVDD) RE2, Inc. 32 39th Street Pittsburgh, PA 15201 $2.5 million from RDTE Army – The Remote VBIED Detection and Defeat (RVDD) system would allow military personnel to remotely detect and defeat Vehicle Borne IEDs (VBIEDs). This would save U.S. military lives. Since the robot carries all the tools it needs with it and the changing of tools at the end of the robotic arm is done automatically, the robot does not need to return to the human during the mission. By allowing the robot to stay on target during the entire mission, mission time is significantly reduced. The shorter the mission time, the less the operator is exposed to hazards such as sniper fire and the more likely the VBIED will be detected and defeated, reducing property damage and saving lives. The RVDD technology provides a much-needed capability to military EOD (Explosive Ordnance Disposal) units. Existing EOD robots have limited robotic arms with basic two-finger grippers. These robots are best used for roadside IEDs. The RVDD will provide existing EOD robots with the capability to change tools for a variety of VBIED detection and defeat tasks, including penetrating a vehicle to perform in-vehicle reconnaissance and inspection. The technology developed under this program could easily be transferred to domestic bomb squads and for use in homeland defense and security efforts. Additionally, the standard interface that the RVDD provides at the end of a robotic arm allows multiple vendors to develop new urgently-needed tools for existing robot systems and leverages current investments within the DoD to get this important VBIED detection and defeat capability. Small Manufacturers Defense Initiative Phase II Catalyst Connection 2000 Technology Drive Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $2.5 million from RDTE Army – The Small Manufacturers Defense Initiative (SMDI) will use this funding to create a more efficient and streamlined procurement process for the U.S. military in order to more rapidly meet their manufacturing demands. By utilizing the unique capabilities of Catalyst Connection and the Pennsylvania Industrial Resource Centers (IRC) network, SMDI can deliver a more cost-effective and efficient procurement systems for prototyped parts. Traumatic Brain Injury Technology Development Dynavox Systems 2100 Wharton Street, Suite 400 Pittsburgh, PA 15203 $2.5 million from RDTE Army – The proliferation of the use of Improvised Explosive Devices as a tactic of the insurgency in Iraq and Afghanistan has left hundreds of thousands of returning soldiers with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Many of these TBIs have gone undiagnosed. Consequently, TBI has regrettably been identified as the “signature injury” of the current conflicts. Advancements in protective equipment have allowed many soldiers to survive attacks that would have likely been fatal in previous conflicts. According to a 2008 study prepared by the Institute of Medicine on behalf of the Department of Veterans Affairs, approximately 22% of troops returning from Iraq and Afghanistan have a brain injury. These numbers could rise significantly as screening becomes more prevalent. As efforts are increased to identify soldiers with TBI-related injuries, solutions are required to deal with the long-term mental and physical effects of these injuries. In almost all cases – mild and severe – TBI causes difficulty in organization and memory. In some cases, a condition known as aphasia occurs. Some aphasics have no speech at all; others are able to produce words but cannot connect them together to create meaningful communication. A solution for these veterans is desperately needed to provide memory and organization support, along with communication support for those more severely affected. DynaVox Technologies proposes to develop a specialized solution for soldiers returning with TBI. This solution would include a new, miniaturized handheld device to provide organization and memory support, along with voice generation and communication support designed specifically for those with aphasia and TBI. It would also include GPS functionality to enable those with TBI to find a desired location, as well as to allow caregivers and family members to locate the individual if he/she is lost. Further, the device would include cell phone capability to allow the individual to contact the caregiver or family member, or vice versa. There would be specialized software in the device to allow the individual to easily move from the memory/organization functionality to communication functionality to GPS to cell phone functionality. DynaVox is uniquely positioned to deliver such solutions based on relationships and ongoing partnership with, for example, Dr. David Beukelman at University of Nebraska-Lincoln, one of the foremost researchers in the field of TBI/Aphasia. DynaVox also has the nation’s largest field support organization – approximately 85 people throughout the nation – with local support nearby all military and VA centers serving those with TBI-related injuries. This device would help the Telemedicine and Advanced Technology Research Center (TATRC) advance its mission by providing a new, comprehensive treatment approach through a miniaturized, handheld device, which includes GPS functionality, to address the mental and physical effects of TBI, thereby saving costs on other duplicative and less effective rehabilitation efforts. University of Pittsburgh Drug Discovery Institute (Center for Orphan Disease Drug Discovery) University of Pittsburgh Drug Discovery Institute (Center for Orphan Disease Drug Discovery) Pittsburgh, PA 15260 $2.5 million from RDTE Army – The University of Pittsburgh Drug Discovery Institute conducts research and development on drugs to treat so-called rare or neglected diseases that affect more than 25 million Americans. The Institute would use this funding to conduct research in collaboration with the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR) to develop new drug products that will protect the U.S. population, especially the warfighters deployed around the world and their families, from infectious diseases. Wearable Hemorrhagic Shock Monitor Body Media, Inc. 4 Smithfield Street 11th Floor Pittsburgh, PA 15219 $1.5 million from RDTE Army – Hemorrhagic shock is responsible for roughly 50% of the deaths of wounded soldiers. This number could be dramatically reduced if medics were provided with the most up-to-date medical technology. Lack of information related to complex wounding patterns creates a substantial barrier to caring and making real-time life and death decisions for injured soldiers and is directly related to their deaths. The Wearable Hemorrhagic Shock Monitor could ultimately improve a medic’s ability to save lives by more efficiently monitoring a patients physiological symptoms of hemorrhagic shock. ###
04.02.2009	Washington, DC – April 2, 2009 - U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Chris Smith (NJ-4), today introduced two bills to mark World Autism Awareness Day. “Millions of people around the world are affected by autism spectrum disorder,” Congressman Doyle said this morning. “They and their families need and deserve greater recognition and support from our society, and the first step we need to take to achieve that goal is to raise public awareness about autism. That’s why the United Nations has designated April 2 each year as World Autism Awareness Day – and why Chris Smith and I have introduced these two bills today.” “Autism advocates in the U.S. should be commended for increasing awareness of autism through years of tireless dedication,” Smith said. “World Autism Awareness Day is important to make clear that autism affects children and adults across the globe. We need to leverage that awareness to enact service and support programs that will enable individuals with autism to participate fully in their communities and in society.” The first bill is a House concurrent resolution observing World Autism Awareness Day and calling for greater federal action to address the needs of individuals with autism spectrum disorders. Specifically, this resolution recognizes the importance of autism awareness and expresses the House of Representatives commitment to increase funding for research into the causes and treatment of autism and to improve training and support for individuals who care for those with autism. The second bill would fund programs addressing autism in the developing world. This legislation, the Global Autism Assistance Act, would authorize $10 million over three years for service providers and advocacy groups for autistic children specifically in countries with weak healthcare infrastructure. The Global Autism Assistance Act would fund small grants to raise autism awareness and create new ways to share American expertise and advancements in the diagnoses and treatment of autism with families and medical professionals in countries that have yet to focus on the worldwide increase in the prevalence of autism. The Global Autism Assistance Act would also establish a "teach the teachers" program in which qualified US specialists would train education and health professionals working with children with autism in the developing world. The program would host multiple workshops to enable American education, medical, and psychological specialists to share their expertise with parents and health and education professionals in the program's pilot regions. This is designed to help create a new corps of professionals in the pilot regions who can then fan out and help others further their autism assistance programs on their own. “In many developing countries, health and education programs for developmentally disabled children and adults are nearly non-existent,” Smith said. “The Global Autism Assistance Act will allow us to use our expertise to help establish and grow education and health care initiatives, beginning in at least two regions of developing countries.” “The United States is a world leader in the diagnosis and treatment of autism,” Congressman Doyle said. “Consequently, we have a responsibility to share the knowledge and skills we’ve acquired with other nations. The Global Autism Assistance Act would mark an important step towards that goal.” Congressmen Doyle and Smith also announced their intention to introduce a companion to the autism bill that was introduced by Senator Richard Durbin (IL) today. “Federal support for research on autism and services for individuals with autism, especially adults with autism, is still woefully inadequate,” Congressman Doyle added. “That’s why Congressman Smith and I will be introducing a companion bill to the bill that Senators Durbin and Casey introduced today to expand federal assistance to families living with autism.” One out of every 150 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. The care involved in treating these symptoms often requires hours of intensive therapy every week - regimens that are often inaccessible or unaffordable for many families. With early intervention and concentrated treatment, the symptoms of autism spectrum disorder can be mitigated, enabling individuals with autism and their families to participate fully in their communities. ###
03.18.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. – March 18, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today announced that he has urged the Treasury Department to block the bonuses that AIG has proposed paying a number of its employees and ensure a full accounting of the bail-out money AIG has received. “It galls me that anyone would think these bonuses were okay,” Congressman Doyle said. “This is an outrageous abuse of federal aid by some of the people who are most responsible for undermining the U.S. economy. If they don’t have the judgment and decency to return the money, I will be working in Congress to make sure they don’t walk away with it.” Congressman Doyle was one of more than 90 Members of Congress who signed the letter to Treasury Secretary Geithner saying, in part: “the Administration must take quick action now not only to put an end to the outrageous practice of awarding excessive bonuses at bailed-out firms, but also to require greater transparency as a non-negotiable condition of receiving taxpayer-funded bailout money.” The complete text of the letter follows: The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner Secretary of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: We are writing to express our outrage and disbelief that AIG is moving forward with executive bonuses worth over $165 million. This is a stunning revelation at a time when hard-working families in our districts are bearing the brunt of the faltering economy and seeing their tax dollars used to prop up this company. As President Obama and his Administration have made clear in recent days, rebuilding public confidence in our financial system is a critical element in our nation’s economic recovery. However, the news that AIG, a company that is completely undercapitalized and incapable of covering its obligations to pay out derivatives, is using taxpayer funds from the Wall Street bailout to pay bonuses completely undercuts the President’s goal. This company, more than any other single entity, is responsible for the crash of world credit markets resulting in the strangling of America’s working families and businesses by the millions. AIG has shamelessly lined up for a $170 billion handout only to be used to cover up its own incompetence and irresponsible business practices. The company has refused until yesterday to account for its use of TARP funds even though the government now holds an unprecedented 80 percent ownership stake in the company. AIG’s claim that it is legally bound to pay bonuses at a time when the company is under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC and the United Kingdom Serious Crimes Ministry, is hardly persuasive. We strongly urge that the Justice Department immediately intervene to suspend these payments until AIG’s own legal standing is resolved. These kinds of abuses of the public trust will only threaten any future efforts by President Obama’s Administration to intervene in the financial markets. For the sake of the President’s ability to continue to take the steps that may be necessary to rebuild our economy, there must be a stronger response than simply decrying this development. It is long past time that AIG disclose in detail [its] payments with bailout funds. AIG’s unwillingness to do so up until yesterday is completely out of touch with the most basic requirement of accountability to which any public expenditure, from local government all the way up to the Department of the Treasury, must adhere. One of the best attributes of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is the publicly available website, www.recovery.gov, which allows all Americans to see how their tax dollars are being spent. Public confidence in our economic system can only be restored with real transparency and accountability – and the Administration must take quick action now not only to put an end to the outrageous practice of awarding excessive bonuses at bailed-out firms, but also to require greater transparency as a non-negotiable condition of receiving taxpayer-funded bailout money. We believe deeply that your office and the Obama Administration are pursuing a constructive approach to mending Wall Street’s failures and to repair the fundamentals of our economy. However, now is the time to break away from your predecessor’s approach of coddling AIG and to firmly demand a full accounting of the use of taxpayer money at AIG and other recipients. We are pleased to hear that President Obama intends to block the AIG bonuses and hope he will use any vehicle necessary to protect the American taxpayers’ interest. Our constituents deserve nothing less. Sincerely, Bruce Braley; Joe Courtney; Ben Ray Luján; Harry Teague; Betty Sutton; Dale Kildee; Steve Israel; Zack Space; Barbara Lee; Jared Polis; Larry Kissell; Mike Michaud; Steve Kagen; Chet Edwards; Chris Carney; Jim Langevin; Parker Griffith; Ben Chandler; Hank Johnson; Michael Arcuri; Tom Perriello; Phil Hare; James L. Oberstar; Peter Welch; Jason Altmire; Kathy Dahlkemper; John Hall; Jesse L. Jackson, Jr.; Eric Massa; Chellie Pingree; Bart Stupak; Madeleine Bordallo; Glenn Nye; Marcy Kaptur; Danny K. Davis; Mark Schauer; Paul Tonko; Kurt Schrader; Baron P. Hill; Ed Markey’ Harry Mitchell; Betsy Markey; Bob Filner; Keith Ellison; Jackie Speier; Dennis Kucinich; Peter DeFazio; Tim Holden; Bill Foster; Diana DeGette; Tim Walz; Corrine Brown; Raul M. Grijalva; Betty McCollum; Tim Bishop; Leonard Boswell; Carol Shea-Porter; Mazie K. Hirono; John Sarbanes; Lynn Woolsey; John Tanner; Dina Titus; Mike Doyle; Bill Pascrell, Jr.; Steve Driehaus; Brian Higgins; Donna F. Edwards; Charlie Wilson; Ann Kirkpatrick; Lincoln Davis; Lois Capps; Gene Taylor; Gerald Connolly; G.K. Butterfield; Albio Sires; Chris Van Hollen; Steven Rothman; Patrick Murphy. ###
03.17.2009	Washington, DC – March 17, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) to commended President Obama for nominating Pittsburgh Steelers owner Dan Rooney to be U.S. Ambassador to Ireland today. “Dan Rooney is a businessman who’s done more than run a consistently successful professional football team for decades – he’s also a community leader and engaged Irish-American who has spent years behind the scenes working to promote peace, justice, and prosperity in Ireland,” Congressman Doyle observed. “President Obama made an excellent choice in nominating him to be the next U.S. Ambassador to Ireland.” “I am confident that he will carry out his responsibilities as Ambassador with the dedication and professionalism that has characterized all of his civic undertakings over the years,” Congressman Doyle added. ###
03.11.2009	Washington, DC – March 11, 2009– Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that Congress had approved more than $55 million in federal funding that he had requested for initiatives in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “I’m very pleased that I could provide this important assistance to the people of Pittsburgh and Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District,” Congressman Doyle said. “As the 14th District’s Representative in Congress, it’s my responsibility to make sure that federal assistance for our region addresses our most pressing local needs,” Congressman Doyle added. “I worked with local community leaders over the last year and a half to prioritize possible requests for federal support, and then I worked to make sure our top priorities were included in this bill. It’s always rewarding to announce that this process has had a successful outcome for the 14th District.” H.R. 1105, the Omnibus Appropriations Act for 2009, was approved by the House of Representatives with Congressman Doyle’s support on February 25 by a vote of 245 – 178. It was approved by the Senate earlier yesterday. This $410 billion bill provides funding for much of the federal government through the end of Fiscal Year 2009, which ends September 30. It also includes the following congressionally mandated funding for Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District: INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS $25.8 million for the Army Corps of Engineers to make emergency repairs to the Emsworth Locks and Dams on the Ohio River near Neville Island; $15.9 million for the Army Corps of Engineers for ongoing work to replace Lower Monongahela River Locks and Dams 2, 3 and 4; $4 million from the Army Corps of Engineers for a Navigation Improvement Feasibility Study along the Upper Ohio River; $800,000 from the Army Corps of Engineers for construction of a flood control project along Saw Mill Run; $475,000 from the Federal Transit Administration for the Port Authority of Pittsburgh to purchase Hybrid Buses; $600,000 from the EPA for the Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program for Sewer Overflow Control Demonstration Facilities; CRIME PREVENTION/EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT/VICTIM ASSISTANCE $150,000 from the Justice Department’s Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for the Rankin Christian Center for their Youth Development Initiative for programs that provide education, skill building, recreational and nutritional alternatives for at-risk minority youth; $100,000 from the Justice Department’s Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for Pittsburgh’s Hilltop Youth Team through the Brashear Association to provide at-risk youth with vocational and construction skills training, and mentorship through housing renovation; $100,000 from the Justice Department’s Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention for Pittsburgh Gateways’ Connection Center Project, which involves the implementation of prevention, intervention and mentoring strategies for as-risk youth and their families who reside in the East Hills Community; $250,000 from the Justice Department’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Program for the acquisition and deployment of security cameras in 15 business districts within the City of Pittsburgh. $250,000 from the Justice Department’s Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants Program for the Women’s Center and Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh for their Domestic Violence Support Program; $750,000 from the Justice Department’s Edward Byrne Discretionary Grants Program for Allegheny County to establish a ThreatViewer Emergency Visualization System, which will provide the Allegheny County Department of Emergency Services with a state-of-the-art converged, map-based network system for managing responses to local emergencies; R&D INVESTMENT/ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/JOB CREATION $570,900 from the Energy Department’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Program for Pittsburgh Gateways to develop a Green Innovators Synergy Center to meet increasing demand for green workforce training jobs, offer business support, and expand research on alternative energy and energy efficient technologies; $2,854,500 from the Energy Department’s Defense Environmental Cleanup Account to fund the International Agreement, a Memorandum of Understanding between the US DOE and the UK Department of Trade and Industry, which has allowed a local company, NuVision Engineering, to build a successful business in the worldwide hazardous waste remediation/cleanup market; $1,189,375 from the Energy Department’s Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Account for PPG, Inc.’s Integrated Solar Energy Windows Project, which could eventually significantly reduce building energy consumption; $234,746 for the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse (PLSG) Tech Belt Biosciences Initiative so that PLSG can commercialize additional innovative biosciences concepts and technologies; COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENTS $380,600 from the Energy Department’s Fossil Energy Research and Development Account for the Versailles Borough Stray Gas Mitigation Project, to complete the remediation of leaks from abandoned natural gas wells; $142,500 from the HUD Economic Development Initiatives Account for the Forest Hills Community Development Corporation for their Commercial Area Revitalization, specifically property acquisition for the construction of 25 new elderly housing units and ten façade rehabilitations; $142,500 from the HUD Economic Development Initiatives Account for the Char-West COG Multi-Municipal Parks and Recreation Capital Improvements Program; $95,000 from the Health and Human Services Department’s Health Resources and Services Administration for the North Side Christian Health Center for renovations; EDUCATION & TRAINING $283,000 from the Department of Labor for the Hill House for the Workforce Development Initiative Project, to support their non-custodial parents program; $190,000 from the Department of Labor for the Steamfitters Local Union No. 449 and Plumbers Local Union No. 75 for a joint, extensive training program for those entering the pipe trades industry; $285,000 from the Department of Education for Duquesne University’s Science Literacy Film Project. The funding will be used to produce a series of innovative planetarium shows; and $283,000 from the Department of Education for the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra for curriculum development. President Obama is expected to sign this bill into law in the near future. ###
03.02.2009	Washington, DC – March 2, 2009– Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) welcomed news that the Obama Administration would be awarding a $1.3 million grant to the North Side Christian Health Center in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. “This is outstanding news for an institution that is providing essential health care services to an especially underserved low-income community in Pittsburgh,” Congressman Doyle said today. “We’re all feeling the impact of the current recession, but no one more than some of the communities on the North Side." “The funding for health centers in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act enacted by Congress with my support last month will help provide much-needed health care for low-income families across the country, including those here in southwestern Pennsylvania,” Congressman Doyle added. “I’m pleased that the Administration awarded more than $1 million dollars of the available funding to Pittsburgh.” The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act – a massive $787 billion passed by Congress at President Obama’s request to create and preserve jobs and help get our economy back on track – included $155 million in grants for 126 health centers across the country to help provide health care to an estimated 750,000 low-income people. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration’s network of 1,100 health center grantees across the nation provide health care at more than 7,000 sites, ranging from large medical facilities to clinics and mobile vans. In 2007, health centers served 16.1 million patients, regardless of their ability to pay. Charges for services are set according to income, and only nominal fees are collected from the poorest patients. Nationally, about 39 percent of health center patients have no health insurance. Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) grants typically account for about 19 percent of a health center’s total revenue. Medicare, Medicaid and other federal grants and payments total about 46 percent of revenue; remaining operating funds come from state and local grants, foundations and patient payments. The grants announced today are expected to create 5,500 jobs at the new health centers across the country. “I’m pleased that I, too, was able to provide federal assistance for the North Side Christian Health Center recently,” Congressman Doyle added. The federal Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations bill approved by Congress last week included $95,000 requested by Congressman Doyle to enable the North Side Christian Health Center to complete renovations of its facility at 816 Middle Street. The North Side Christian Health Center served almost 4400 patients in 2007, mostly from the city’s largest public housing complex, Northview Heights. ###
02.13.2009	Washington, DC – February 13, 2009 – The U.S. House of Representatives approved the final version of H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted in support of this bill, which was approved by a vote of 246 to 183. “This legislation will provide essential help to the millions of Americans who have lost their jobs or are at risk of losing their jobs,” said Congressman Mike Doyle, who voted in support of H.R. 1. “It will also put people back to work and promote the recovery of our economy by investing in our infrastructure and the new technologies that will produce the jobs of the future.” H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, will provide $789 billion in assistance to millions of Americans and much-needed stimulus for our nation’s economy. The bill includes $282 billion (35 percent) in tax relief and $507 billion (65 percent) in new spending on investments and aid to struggling households. The bill includes $90 billion in unemployment benefits, food stamps and health insurance subsidies to help workers who have lost their jobs; $170 billion in assistance to state and local governments to prevent cuts in essential public services like health care, education, and law enforcement; $150 billion in investments in infrastructure and new technology to create jobs now and in the future; and $280 billion in tax cuts to provide tax relief to individuals and small businesses. The bill is estimated to create 3.5 million new jobs over the next two years, including 143,000 jobs in Pennsylvania and 6,600 in the 14th District. The U.S. economy has shed 3.6 million jobs over the last 14 months. The main provisions of the bill include: SPENDING: • $40 billion to provide an additional 20 weeks of unemployment benefits to unemployed workers (33 weeks in especially hard-hit states) through the end of 2009 and increases weekly payments by $25 • $25 billion in health insurance premium assistance for unemployed workers and their families • $20 billion for increased Food Stamp Benefits • $4 billion for job training programs • $2.7 billion for state TANF (Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) programs to cover higher caseloads • $1.6 billion to expand Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) program to cover outsourced workers • $87 billion in additional Medicaid funding so states can handle the larger caseloads caused by the recession without reducing coverage • $54 billion in additional assistance to state and local governments to prevent cuts in education • $13 billion for Title I education program economically disadvantaged children • $12 billion for IDEA education program for disabled children • $15 billion to increase the maximum Pell Grant by $500 • $1 billion for economic development projects (Community Development Block Grants) • $4 billion in grants to state and local law enforcement agencies to prevent police layoffs • $49 billion in spending on transportation infrastructure programs like roads, bridges, and rail • $7 billion for drinking water and wastewater infrastructure • $4 billion for Army Corps of Engineers navigation and flood control infrastructure projects • $7 billion for expanding broadband internet service • $19 billion for Health Information Technology investments to improve health care • $30 billion for energy research, energy-efficiency programs, and modernization of the electricity transmission grid • $10 billion for biomedical research and facility improvements at National Institutes of Health • $2.75 billion for Homeland Security TAX RELIEF: • a tax credit for 95 percent of working families – The bill provides a one-time tax credit of up to $400 for individuals with incomes of less than $100,000 and up to $800 for families with incomes of less than $200,000. ($116 billion) • a one-time payment of $250 to Social Security beneficiaries, SSI beneficiaries, and disabled veterans ($14 billion) • a provision preventing the Alternative Minimum Tax from hitting 26 million middle-class families. ($70 billion) • an expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for families with 3 or more children ($4.6 billion) • an expansion of the Child Tax Credit to extend eligibility to families making more than $3,000 a year. ($15 billion) • an increase in the tax credit for first-time home buyers to $8,000 ($6.6 billion) • a tax deduction for sales taxes paid on the purchase of new vehicles ($1.6 billion) • a new $2,500 higher education tax credit for families ($14 billion) • a temporary suspension of the taxation of some unemployment benefits ($4.7 billion) • $20 billion in tax credits for renewable energy investments and research • $10 billion for school construction bonds • allows corporations to speed up deductions for investments in plants and equipment ($5 billion) • allows small businesses to deduct business expenditures of up to $250,000 directly from their tax liabilities. “This bill was far from perfect,” Congressman Doyle observed. “In order to get enough Republican votes to pass it in the Senate, we had to include a number of provisions that provide very little stimulus and cut other provisions – like school construction and education funding – that would have provided the greatest bang for our stimulus buck. But even with these shortcomings, the bill will do a lot of good and deserved all Members’ support.” The final bill contained a $70 billion provision to prevent the Alternative Minimum Tax from increasing federal income taxes on families with incomes of $100,000 or more. There are many good reasons to change the AMT, but most economists agree that this AMT provision will do little to promote economic recovery. In contrast, the final bill cut funding assistance for state and local governments by $40 billion – most economists agree that such spending would do more to stimulate the economy quickly than any other possible government policy. “While enactment of this legislation is essential, it won’t magically solve all of the problems we face,” Congressman Doyle cautioned. “As large as it is, it will only fill some of the gap in economic demand created by the subprime mortgage crisis, the financial sector meltdown, and the global recession they’ve precipitated. It buys us some time to deal with these massive problems, which still constitute major obstacles to our economy’s recovery and future economic growth. Until we eliminate the fundamental cause of this recession – the collapse of the housing bubble – our economy won’t completely recover. I will continue to work to get our economy out of the ditch that the Bush Administration and its supporters in Congress dug us into over 8 years of deregulatory policies, easy money, and irresponsible deficits.” ###
02.12.2009	Washington, DC – February 12, 2009– Today, U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) spoke on the House Floor in support of his legislation to honor the Pittsburgh Steelers, the winners of Superbowl XLIII. The House is expected to vote on the resolution tomorrow. The video of Congressman Doyle’s speech can be viewed on YouTube by clicking here. The full text of the resolution follows: 111th CONGRESS 1st Session H. RES. 110 Congratulating the National Football League champion Pittsburgh Steelers for winning Super Bowl XLIII and becoming the most successful franchise in NFL history with their record 6th Super Bowl title. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES February 3, 2009 Mr. DOYLE (for himself, Mr. ROONEY, and Mr. TIM MURPHY of Pennsylvania) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform ________________________________________ RESOLUTION Congratulating the National Football League champion Pittsburgh Steelers for winning Super Bowl XLIII and becoming the most successful franchise in NFL history with their record 6th Super Bowl title. Whereas the Pittsburgh Steelers won Super Bowl XLIII by defeating the Arizona Cardinals 27 to 23 in Tampa, Florida, on February 1, 2009, winning their second Super Bowl championship in 4 years; Whereas with this victory the Pittsburgh Steelers franchise has set a new National Football League standard for most Super Bowl victories with their record 6th Super Bowl championship; Whereas the Pittsburgh Steelers went 15-4 against the hardest-ranked 2008-2009 schedule in the NFL and defeated the San Diego Chargers, Baltimore Ravens, and Arizona Cardinals during their record-setting post season run; Whereas linebacker James Harrison returned a goal line interception 100 yards for the longest play in Super Bowl history; Whereas quarterback Ben Roethlisberger went 21-30 for 256 yards and led the team down the field for the 19th and most important 4th quarter comeback of his career; Whereas wide receiver Santonio Holmes won the Super Bowl MVP award with a 9-catch, 131-yard performance, including the game-winning touchdown in the corner of the endzone with 35 seconds left in the game; Whereas the Pittsburgh Steelers new `Steel Curtain' defense, including stars James Harrison, Ryan Clark, Troy Polamalu, James Farrior, Ike Taylor, Larry Foote, Casey Hampton, LaMarr Woodley, Brett Keisel, Deshea Townsend, and Aaron Smith were ranked first in the NFL in overall team defense for the 2008-2009 season; Whereas the Pittsburgh Steelers defense during the 2008-2009 season allowed the least points scored, lowest average passing yards per game, and the least overall yards per game in the entire NFL; Whereas head coach Mike Tomlin is the youngest coach to win a Super Bowl championship and has continued in the legendary tradition of head coaches Chuck Noll and Bill Cowher by bringing a Super Bowl championship to Pittsburgh; Whereas linebacker James Harrison was named the NFL Defensive Player of the Year for the 2008-2009 season; Whereas team owner Dan Rooney and team President Art Rooney II, the son and grandson, respectively, of Pittsburgh Steelers founder Art Rooney, have remarkable loyalty to Steelers fans and the City of Pittsburgh, and have assembled an exceptional team of players, coaches, and staff that made achieving a championship possible; Whereas the Pittsburgh Steelers fan base, known as `Steeler Nation', was ranked in August 2008 by ESPN.com as the best in the NFL, citing their current streak of 299 consecutive sold out games going back to the 1972 season; and Whereas, for 76 years, the people of the City of Pittsburgh have seen themselves in the grit, tenacity, and success of the Pittsburgh Steelers franchise, and they proudly join the team in celebrating their NFL record 6th Super Bowl championship: Now therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives congratulates the National Football League Champion Pittsburgh Steelers for winning Super Bowl XLIII and setting a new championship standard for the entire NFL. ###
02.05.2009	Washington, DC – February 5, 2009– U.S. Representative Trent Franks (AZ-2) today paid off the friendly wager he made with Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) on the outcome of Sunday’s Superbowl game between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Arizona Cardinals. The Steelers won their 6th Superbowl victory by 27-23. Early this afternoon, Congressman Franks put on a Pittsburgh Steelers jersey on the U.S. Capitol steps and wore it into the House of Representatives. “Trent Franks is a good sport and an honorable man,” Congressman Doyle observed afterwards. “Some folks try to wimp out of these bets, but he’s a man of his word and a gracious loser. He just had the misfortune of being a loyal Cardinals fan forced to bet against the Steelers.” “The Cardinals played an outstanding game and gave us a real run for our money, but in the end they couldn’t stop Big Ben, Santonio, and a tough, never-say-die team,” he added. ###
01.30.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. – January 29, 2009 – U.S. Representatives Trent Franks (AZ-2) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) today announced that they have made a friendly wager on the outcome of Sunday’s Superbowl game between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Arizona Cardinals. Representatives Franks and Doyle have agreed that the Representative whose team loses will wear the winning team’s jersey for a day when the House is in session. “Everyone knows that defense wins Superbowls and Pittsburgh's is the best in the NFL!” Congressman Doyle said. “The number one defense in the league, possibly the best defense ever, will be able to contain Kurt Warner and Larry Fitzgerald.” “Everyone is talking about the Steelers defense, but people forget that the Cardinals defense had a playoff-best 12 turnovers in their three playoff games.” Congressman Franks noted. “They also stuffed running backs Turner, Williams, and Westbrook in those games. Ultimately, though, I think the key to a Cardinals victory will be not turning the ball over.” The Steelers finished the season with a 12-4 record, winning 7 of the final 8 games of the season behind the NFL’s best defense. They subsequently defeated the San Diego Chargers and the Baltimore Ravens to make it to the Superbowl. The Cardinals won the NFC West division and finished the season with a 9-7 record. They went on to defeat the Atlanta Falcons, Carolina Panthers, and Philadelphia Eagles in the playoffs, behind a much-improved defense. “This will be the Steelers 7th trip to the Superbowl, and they’ve won five out of their six previous games,” Congressman Doyle said. “I firmly believe the Steelers will leave the red birds “red faced.” ###
01.28.2009	On Wednesday, the House of Representatives will debate the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, legislation designed to rebuild our economy and put Americans back to work. As we all know, President Obama and the new Congress took their oaths of office in one of the bleakest economic climates in recent memory. In the last year alone, the United States shed 2.6 million jobs—the worst year since 1945. We are in the midst of the worst housing market since the Great Depression, and turmoil in the financial markets has threatened the savings and retirements of millions of Americans. All of those facts speak to the urgency of this recovery plan. Without it, economists expect more Americans to lose their jobs, more small businesses to shut their doors, more homeowners to face foreclosure, and the recession to be much longer and deeper, and the impact on the budget deficit more severe. That is why passing the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is the top priority of the Obama Administration and the 111th Congress. Immediate Boost, Long-term Growth The $825 billion recovery package of tax cuts and investments will create 3 to 4 million jobs and combines the following elements: • immediate and direct tax relief for 95% of working families, as well as for job-creating small businesses; • job-creating projects to rebuild and modernize our roads, bridges, and schools; • targeted investments in 21st-century energy, health, and information technologies to spur long-term economic growth and lower costs; • aid to states to protect vital services, like healthcare, education, and local law enforcement; and • aid to boost economic activity most quickly and help those hardest hit in this recession, including extended unemployment insurance, increased food stamp programs, and an increased Supplemental Security Income benefit for low-income seniors and disabled individuals. The spending authorized by the recovery package will take effect quickly; the Office of Management and Budget estimates that 75% of its funds will be spent within 18 months. Critical elements that will be spent in that time and thereby have the most stimulative effect on the economy include the following: • tax cuts for individuals and job-creating businesses, totaling $275 billion; • extended unemployment benefits, temporarily increased food stamp benefits, and health insurance subsidies for workers who have lost their jobs, totaling more than $100 billion; and • aid to states in danger of cutting vital services, totaling more than $160 billion. Backed by Economists Across the Spectrum That projection has been backed by a economists representing a broad, bipartisan consensus—most recently, by Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’s Economy.com and former advisor to Senator John McCain’s presidential campaign. Zandi’s analysis found that the recovery plan will meet its job-creation goal of 4 million jobs, leading to an unemployment rate 2.2% lower than if we did nothing. More than 90% of jobs created will be in the private sector. Zandi also supports the composition of the package, saying that “the mix of tax cuts and spending increases in the stimulus package is designed to provide both quick relief and a substantial boost to the struggling economy.” [Zandi Analysis, 1/21/09] Building for the Future But the recovery plan also invests for the long term, ensuring that America will come out of this recession with a more robust and globally competitive economy and a basis for sustainable growth. The plan includes a number of investments that will grow our economy and save money in the long term: • an expansion of broadband Internet access to bring commerce opportunities to small businesses in every community in America, which has been shown to provide a ten-fold return for every dollar invested; • a significant investment in science facilities, research, and instrumentation to develop energy technologies that will help end our foreign oil dependence and strengthen our export market; • development of a smart grid to transmit American renewable energy; • repairs to and modernization of our crumbling national infrastructure; • expanded assistance for worker training and college education, including increased Pell Grants and tuition tax credits; and • a computerized healthcare information system that will save money and lives. Provisions like these mean that the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is not just a response to an economic emergency—it’s a wise foundation for the future. Unprecedented Accountability The recovery plan will include several important layers of accountability. It will include no earmarks or pet projects. Investments funded, total costs, and program managers will all be posted publicly on a website created by President Obama. And the Government Accountability Office, Inspectors General, and a new Accountability and Transparency Board will review all funding decisions, striving to prevent waste and fraud. Taxpayers need to know that their money is being spent to get us out of this recession, not squandered or siphoned off. The recovery plan’s accountability provisions give them that assurance.
01.27.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. – January 27, 2009 – U.S. Representative Doyle voted today to pass a bill to get our economy on the road to recovery and help families hurt by the current recession. “The economy’s in freefall, housing prices are plummeting, people’s savings have been decimated, and we’ve lost two and a half million jobs over the last year,” Congressman Doyle observed. “We’re already in the deepest recession in decades, and it looks like things are going to get worse before they get better. That’s why I believe Congress needs to act boldly to stabilize and rebuild our economy and put Americans back to work.” The House passed H.R. 1, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, by a vote of 244 to 188. “If Congress doesn’t enact legislation like this quickly, more Americans will lose their jobs, more small businesses will have to shut down, more homeowners will face foreclosure, the recession will last longer, and the budget deficit will grow even larger,” Congressman Doyle added. “The Republican alternative – doing too little and targeting the benefits to the wealthy – would simply make things worse for most Americans. It seems like my Republican House colleagues have learned nothing from the Great Depression and the failed policies of Herbert Hoover.” The $825 billion recovery package of tax cuts and investments ($275 billion in tax cuts and $550 billion in new spending) is projected to create 3 to 4 million jobs, primarily through the following provisions: • $275 billion in tax relief for 95% of working families and struggling small businesses; • $90 billion in investments to rebuild and modernize our roads, bridges, and schools; • $94 billion in targeted investments in energy, health, and information technologies to spur long-term economic growth and lower consumer prices; • $160 billion in aid to states to protect vital services – like healthcare, education, and local law enforcement – and $100 billion for state programs that help those hardest hit in this recession –programs like extended unemployment insurance, food stamps, and Supplemental Security Income benefits for low-income seniors and disabled individuals. The spending authorized by the recovery package will take effect quickly; the Office of Management and Budget estimates that 75% of its funds will be spent within 18 months. But the recovery plan also invests for the long term, ensuring that America will come out of this recession with a more robust and globally competitive economy and a basis for sustainable growth. “The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act isn’t just a smart response to the current economic emergency,” Congressman Doyle said. “It’s also a smart investment in our future. I hope that Congress will finish work on this bill and send it to the President’s desk in short order.” The recovery plan includes several important layers of accountability. It includes no earmarks or pet projects. Investments funded, total costs, and program managers will all be posted publicly on a website created by President Obama. In addition, the Government Accountability Office, Inspectors General, and a new Accountability and Transparency Board will review all funding decisions, striving to prevent waste and fraud. Funding contained in the bill for Pennsylvania exceeds $12 billion, including: Medicaid $3.9 billion (out of $82 billion nationwide) State Fiscal Stabilization Fund $2.5 billion (out of $79 billion nationwide) Byrne Justice Assistance Grants $112 million Highway, bridge, transit and clean water infrastructure $1.863 billion (out of $43 billion nationwide) Education Modernization, Renovation, and Repair: 821 million (out of $20 billion nationwide) Pell Grant Maximum Award increase: $878 million (out of $25 billion nationwide) Title I Education assistance $524 million (out of $13 billion nationwide) IDEA Education assistance $494 million (out of $13 billion nationwide) Head Start: $22 million (out of $2.1 billion nationwide) Educational Technology State Grants $38 million (out of $1 Billion nationwide) Food Stamp benefits $791 million (out of $19.5 billion nationwide) Supplemental Security Income (SSI) $190 million (out of $4.2 billion nationwide) Emergency Shelter Grant Program $90 million (out of $1.5 billion nationwide) Child Care and Development Block Grant: $60 million (out of $2 billion nationwide) Employment and Training assistance $97 million (out of $3.2 billion nationwide) Community Services Block Grant $42 million (out of $1 billion nationwide) Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program $66 million (out of $1 billion nationwide) Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grant $15 million (out of $296 million nationwide) Elderly Nutrition Services $5.4 million (out of $200 million nationwide) In addition, the tax provisions in the bill would help many Pennsylvanians as well: 4.4 million households in Pennsylvania would benefit from the Making Work Pay tax credit, which would provide $500 to each working individual and $1,000 to each married couple. 567,000 children in Pennsylvania would be helped by the bill’s provision temporarily extending the Child Tax Credit to all working families with children. Prior to final consideration of the bill, the House rejected a House Republican substitute by a vote of 170 to 266. The House Republicans’ $475 billion substitute would have eliminated all of the spending in H.R. 1 except for the $30 billion in unemployment insurance funding. The substitute would also have eliminated H.R. 1’s tax cuts for working families and replaced them with tax breaks benefiting primarily the wealthiest 20 percent of American households. Roughly 23 million lower-income taxpayers who would get tax relief under H.R. 1 would receive nothing at all under the GOP substitute. At the other end of the income spectrum, one $48 billion provision in the Republican substitute would reduce the top individual income tax rate from 35% to 28% (adjusted gross household income has to exceed $357,700 to fall into this bracket). ###
01.23.2009	Pittsburgh, PA – January 23, 2009– Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) held a press conference today to urge his constituents to get ready for the dramatic technical change in local television broadcasts that will take place on February 17th. “On February 17, 2009, television stations all across the country will stop broadcasting the analog signals they have been using for decades and begin broadcasting only digital programming,” Congressman Doyle said at the press conference, which was held at the Forest Hills Senior Center. “The transition from analog signals to digital will produce a number of benefits for the public – from better picture quality to additional channels and interactive features.” “Most Americans whose television sets are hooked up to cable or satellite systems will not be affected by this transition, nor will new televisions with digital tuners, but many consumers will have to buy special converter boxes if they want to continue to view television broadcasts over the air on their old TVs,” Congressman Doyle added. “These converter boxes are now being sold in a number of local stores.” “I encourage any of my constituents who view over-the-air broadcasts on their television sets to purchase their set-top converter boxes as soon as possible,” Congressman Doyle said. “I anticipate that demand for these boxes will escalate dramatically as the deadline approaches next month. Procuring this equipment in the near future will ensure that your television viewing isn’t interrupted on February 17, 2009.” Digital-to-analog set-top converter boxes receive digital signals and convert them into analog format for display on analog TVs. Analog sets connected to such converter boxes will display digital broadcasts, but not necessarily in the full, original digital quality. Because the federal government has mandated this transition, the federal government is subsidizing the purchase of set-top converter boxes in order to minimize the financial impact of this change on individual households. Each household may request coupons from the federal government that will reduce the cost of each set-top converter box by $40. Each household can receive up to 2 of these coupons. Consumers will be able to redeem converter box coupons at a variety of local electronics retailers, including Best Buy, Kmart, RadioShack, Sam's Club, Sears, CVS, and Wal-Mart. Congressman Doyle will continue to work with retailers to ensure that converter boxes are available for purchase online as well as in local stores. All new TVs must include digital tuners. TVs with digital tuners will be able to receive the new digital over-the-air broadcast signals. Despite the prohibition on manufacture and shipment of new analog-only TVs, retailers may continue to sell analog-only devices from existing inventory. As a result, at the point of sale, many consumers should be aware that this equipment will not be able to receive over-the-air-television signals after February 17, 2009. Cable and Satellite TV Cable subscribers may need new DTV equipment to view DTV programming in digital format. You should ask your cable provider what you will need and when. Satellite subscribers may need new DTV equipment to receive and view high definition digital programming. You should ask your satellite company what you will need and when. The digital television (DTV) transition is scheduled for February 17, 2009. Converter box coupon applications are available from January 1, 2008 until March 31, 2009. There are four ways consumers can request a coupon: • Apply online at www.dtv2009.gov; • Call the 24-hour hotline, 1-888-DTV-2009 (1-888-388-2009), TTY 1-877-530-2634; • Mail a coupon application to P.O. Box 2000, Portland, OR 97208-2000; (an application can be downloaded at https://www.dtv2009.gov/docs/Coupon_Program_App_en.pdf) • Fax a coupon application to 1-877-DTV-4ME2 (1-877-388-4632) (an application can be downloaded at https://www.dtv2009.gov/docs/Coupon_Program_App_en.pdf). More information about the digital TV conversion is available on-line at https://www.dtv2009.gov/. ###
01.15.2009	In the next two weeks, the House will consider the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan, working from priorities shared with President-elect Barack Obama. Job Creation: The recovery package is the first crucial step in a concerted effort to create and save 3 to 4 million jobs, jumpstart our economy, and transform it for the 21st century. Transform our Economy with Science and Technology: To secure America’s role as a world leader in a competitive global economy, we are renewing America’s investments in basic research and development, in training students for an innovation economy, and in deploying new technologies into the marketplace. This will help businesses in every community succeed in a global economy. Unprecedented Accountability: An historic level of transparency, oversight and accountability will help guarantee taxpayer dollars are spent wisely and ensure that Americans can see the results of their investment. Clean, Efficient, American Energy: To put people back to work today and reduce our dependence on foreign oil tomorrow, we will increase renewable energy production and renovate public buildings to make them more energy efficient. Modernize Roads, Bridges, Transit and Waterways: To build a 21st century economy, we must create jobs rebuilding our crumbling roads, and bridges, modernize public buildings, and put people to work cleaning our air, water and land. Education for the 21st Century: We will enable students of all ages to learn in 21st century classrooms, labs, and libraries to help our students compete with any worker in the world. Tax Cuts to Make Work Pay and Create Jobs: We will provide direct tax relief to 95 percent of American workers, as President-elect Obama pledged, and spur investment and job growth for American businesses. Lower Health Care Costs: To save not only jobs, but money and lives, we will update and computerize our health care system to cut red tape, prevent medical mistakes, and help reduce health care costs by billions of dollars each year. Help Workers Hurt by the Economy: High unemployment and rising costs have outpaced Americans’ paychecks. We will help workers train and find jobs, and help struggling families make ends meet. Protect Vital Services: We will provide relief to states, so that they can continue to employ teachers, firefighters and police and provide vital services without having to unnecessarily raise middle class taxes.
01.14.2009	Washington, DC – January 14, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle today voted for legislation to reauthorize and expand a federal-state program that provides health insurance coverage to children who are currently uninsured. The House passed the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) Reauthorization Act of 2009 by a vote of 289 to139. “It’s a disgrace that in the richest country in the world, millions of vulnerable children don’t have health insurance,” Congressman Doyle said today. “The people who opposed this legislation today and in the previous Congress should be ashamed of themselves. I’m pleased to see that the House passed this legislation today by such a large bipartisan margin.” The SCHIP was created by Congress in 1997 to provide health care coverage for children in families that earn too much to qualify for Medicaid, but not enough to afford private insurance. Over the past decade, SCHIP has proved to be a successful and cost-effective program for providing health care to millions of uninsured children. The authorization for the program expired last year. Congress passed legislation reauthorizing the SCHIP program and expanding it to cover 5 million more children, but it was vetoed by President Bush and Congress was unable to override his veto. This legislation is essentially similar to the bill approved by Congress last year. The Senate is expected to act on it soon. ###
01.09.2009	Washington, DC – January 9, 2009 – Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed two bills to make certain that all Americans receive the same pay for the same work – the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and the Paycheck Fairness Act. “For far too long, many employers have continued to pay different workers different wages for the same work – despite the clear intent of the Equal Pay Act of 1963,” Congressman Doyle observed. “These employers have prohibited employees from comparing compensation levels and exploited the resulting lack of knowledge to discriminate against particular individuals and certain groups of people. Women have been especially hard-pressed to secure equal compensation for equal work.” “The problem was compounded last year when the Supreme Court overturned prior law in its v. Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. decision and ruled that discrimination claims must be filed within 180 days of the beginning of the alleged discrimination,” Congressman Doyle added. “It’s outrageous for the courts to impose such a tight timeframe for lawsuits when companies enjoy the right to prohibit employees from sharing information about compensation levels. The odds are already badly stacked against workers who have experienced discrimination in the workplace.” “Consequently, I was proud to cosponsor the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act and the Paycheck Fairness Act – and to vote for them when they were considered by the House of Representatives today,” Congressman Doyle said. “It’s my belief that these bills will help ensure that all Americans receive the same pay for the same work. Such pay equity is important for simple fairness’ sake, but I also believe that it has important economic and quality of life benefits for our society as well.” Although the wage gap between men and women has narrowed since the passage of the landmark Equal Pay Act in 1963, gender-based wage discrimination remains a significant problem for women in the U.S. workforce. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, women only make 78 cents for every dollar earned by a man. The Institute of Women’s Policy Research concluded that this wage disparity will cost a woman anywhere from $400,000 to $2 million in lost wages over her lifetime. Furthermore, 41 percent of women are their families’ sole source of income. The wage gap hurts everyone because it lowers family incomes that pay for household essentials like rent, groceries, doctors’ visits, and child care. When women earn more, whole families benefit. Lilly Ledbetter worked for nearly 20 years at a Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company. She sued the company after learning that she was paid less then her male counterparts at the facility, despite having more experience than several of them. A jury found that her employer had unlawfully discriminated against her on the basis of sex. However, the Supreme Court said that Ledbetter had waited too long to sue for pay discrimination, despite the fact that she filed a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission as soon as she received an anonymous note alerting her to pay discrimination. According to published reports, the Ledbetter decision has already been cited in more than 300 discrimination cases. Not only have pay discrimination cases been adversely impacted, but protections guaranteed by the Fair Housing Act, Title IX, and the Eight Amendment have also been affected. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would simply restore prior law – requiring that a pay discrimination charge simply be filed within 180 days of a discriminatory paycheck, not necessarily the first discriminatory paycheck. The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act would apply to workers who file claims of discrimination on the basis of race, sex, color, national origin, religion, age, or disability. The Paycheck Fairness Act would attempt to strengthen the federal laws intended to promote pay equity. Specifically, it would: • Require that an employer seeking to justify unequal pay bears the burden of proving that its actions are job-related and consistent with a business necessity; • Prohibit employers from retaliating against employees who share salary information with their co-workers; • Put gender-based discrimination sanctions on equal footing with other forms of wage discrimination – such as discrimination based on race, disability or age – by allowing women to sue for compensatory and punitive damages; • Require the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to work with employers in order to eliminate pay disparities; and • Require the Department of Labor to continue to collect and disseminate wage information based on gender. “I urge the Senate to promptly approve these important pay equity bills as well,” Congressman Doyle said. ###
01.08.2009	WASHINGTON D.C. – January 8, 2009 – U.S. Representatives Brian Bilbray (CA-50) and Mike Doyle (PA-14) today announced that they have made a friendly wager on the outcome of Sunday’s AFC Divisional Round Playoff game between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the San Diego Chargers. Representatives Bilbray and Doyle have agreed that the Representative whose team loses will buy lunch for their staffs. If the Chargers win, Congressman Doyle will buy Primanti Brothers sandwiches and Iron City Beer for the meal. If the Steelers win, Congressman Bilbray will buy Rubio’s Mexican Food and Stone Brewery Beer. “With Big Ben and Willie Parker on the field and the strongest defense in the league led by NFL Defensive Player of the Year James Harrison, the Steelers will run over the Chargers on their way to the AFC Championship game,” Congressman Doyle said. “I know the weather was great last week in San Diego, but it’s January and we’re in Pittsburgh – the Chargers don’t stand a chance.” “Of all the teams left in the playoffs, the Pittsburgh Steelers have scored the fewest points and committed the most turnovers,” Congressman Bilbray noted. “Our QB is the highest rated passer in the NFL while Big Ben is recovering from a concussion. Their running game was ranked 23rd in the NFL, while Darren Sproles accounted for 328 all-purpose yards last week. The “Steel Curtain” defense of Pittsburgh is going to get carved up by Rivers and Co.” The Steelers finished the season with a 12-4 record, winning 7 of the final 8 games of the season behind the NFL’s best defense. The AFC West Champion Chargers closed the season on a 4-game winning streak and are coming off of an impressive victory last week over the heavily-favored Indianapolis Colts. “Since the 1970 NFL-AFL merger, there has been no place harder for a road team to play at than in Pittsburgh,” Congressman Doyle said. “Let’s just see how effective little Darren Sproles will be on the Heinz Field grass with temperatures in the teens.” ###
01.06.2009	Washington, DC – January 6, 2009 – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle said he was looking forward to getting down to work in the new 111th Congress. Congressman Doyle and the other Members-elect were sworn in as Members of the U.S. House of Representatives today. The 111th Congress will meet over the next two years. “This Congress faces a number of very serious challenges,” Congressman Doyle said today after being sworn in. “The economy is in terrible shape, and Americans are worried about their jobs, their homes, their health care, and their savings. We’ve got two wars underway and serious crises in Africa, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. The Members of the 111th Congress will face many difficult decisions.” “This is also a time of great opportunity, however,” Congressman Doyle added. “Serious times call for serious measures. Combined with the fresh start offered by the inauguration of a new President, I believe that we have the opportunity to make great strides in addressing many of the problems facing our country.” “I am honored and humbled to have been given the responsibility of representing the People of Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District in the House of Representatives at this critical time,” Congressman Doyle said. “I look forward to rolling up my sleeves and getting down to work on these tough public policy challenges.” Congressman Doyle is a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, a House committee with jurisdiction over issues like energy, the environment, health care, telecommunications, and consumer protection. The Committee is expected to focus on energy independence, global warming, health care reform, and the digital television conversion in the coming months. “These issues are of great importance to the residents of Pittsburgh and Allegheny County,” Congressman Doyle observed, “and I am actively involved in crafting legislation that will make their lives better.” Congressman Doyle has completed three terms as a Member of the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, and he is expected to rotate off the committee, which limits Members’ service to three terms.
12.10.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle released the following statement today after the House of Representatives voted to approve H.R. 7321, the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act: “I believe that the collapse of our domestic auto industry would have a tremendous and far-reaching impact on our entire country. The effect wouldn’t just be confined to the Midwest. Here in Pennsylvania, for example, over 100,000 jobs depend on the auto industry. “I think the federal government needs to do everything humanly possible to get our domestic auto industry back on its feet. If we don’t, the Big Three could go under and pull our nation’s economy down with them. That’s why I voted today to provide bridge loans to our domestic auto makers. “This package provides our domestic carmakers with the help they need to get through the coming months – but only if they undertake the steps necessary to restore their businesses to economy viability. If they haven’t made significant progress by the end of March, the federal government can call those loans. “This restructuring package contains a number of provisions to protect taxpayers as well. It conditions the loan on each recipient eliminating executive bonuses, “golden parachutes,” and shareholder dividends for the life of the loan. It also requires the loan recipients to put the government ahead of all other lenders for repayment, and it gives the federal government the right to buy the borrowers’ stock so that the taxpayers will profit if the companies succeed in restructuring.” “I hope that this restructuring package will allow the Big Three to retool their operations so that they can be economically viable in the near future.” The text of the Auto Industry Financing and Restructuring Act can be found athttps://www.rules.house.gov/110/text/110_hr7321.pdf This legislation was approved by the House by a vote of 237 to 170. It must now be considered by the Senate. # # #
10.30.2008	WASHINGTON – A program created to assist military families touched by autism spectrum disorders will receive a boost in funding over the next fiscal year, Coalition on Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.) co-chairs U.S. Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Mike Doyle (D-PA) announced today. Smith and Doyle, who worked tirelessly to secure funding for the program, said that $8 million has been included in the “FY 2009 Consolidated Security, Disaster Assistance, and Continuing Appropriations Act” (H.R. 2638) for “Autism Research” in the Research and Development account of the Defense Health Program to help improve treatment and intervention for individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASDs). This legislation was passed by the House on September 24 and approved by the Senate on September 27 and signed into law by the President on September 30 (Public Law 110-329). “Many people do not realize the depth and breadth of medical research sponsored by DOD, including robust programs to study specific diseases and disabilities. The DOD program on autism research promises to advance research that will lead to more effective interventions and improve the quality of life for military families and for the general public,” said Smith. “The Department of Defense is doing a lot of important research on human health,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This research program is providing much-needed help to military families, and the results of its work will eventually benefit all families dealing with autism.” The DOD program was created by a provision in the FY07 Defense Appropriations Act” (P.L. 109-289) that was authored by Smith and Doyle. Research directed by the DoD program will not only help military children currently affected by autism—which some estimates peg at 12,000 children—but will also benefit the general autism population as new findings and techniques will be shared with the medical, educational, healthcare and service professionals who serve the needs of the autism community both within the DoD and beyond. “Military life, with frequent changes of residence and extended deployments, poses special challenges to military families. Raising a child with autism in the military environment, particularly when a spouse is away for an extended period, compounds and magnifies those challenges,” said Smith. The Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.) headed by Smith and Doyle now has 160 Members of Congress and has been credited with helping to significantly increase federal funding for autism initiatives. For instance, funding for autism programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention increased from $287,000 in 1995 to $15.1 million in 2007. During that same period autism funding at the National Institutes of Health increased from $10.5 million to $127 million. Smith, Doyle and the members of C.A.R.E. are committed to continuing this trend, especially in light of rising ASD prevalence numbers. 1 out of every 150 children born in the United States suffers from an ASD, as classified by the CDC. “The resources of every applicable federal agency must be marshaled to aid in our understanding of autism, assistance programs for those afflicted and their caregivers and pursuit of effective treatments,” said Smith. “There’s so much we don’t know yet about autism spectrum disorders and how to treat them,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Tapping into DoD’s health care expertise will help us get some of the answers.” ###
10.03.2008	Washington, DC -- U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement explaining his vote on H.R. 1424, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, which was approved by the House of Representatives today: I firmly believe that the economic crisis we are currently facing is one of the most serious problems I’ve had to deal with during my service in Congress. I believe that our economy is on the edge of grinding to a halt – and that if that were to happen, our economy would lose millions of jobs and trillions of dollars. That’s why I voted in favor of the economic stabilization bill considered by Congress this week. In a word, I voted for this legislation because I believed with my whole heart that doing nothing was not an option. WHAT CAUSED THE PROBLEM How did we get into this mess? I believe that two main factors created the sub-prime mortgage crisis and the financial meltdown it has caused – insufficient regulation and artificially low interest rates. Over the last 8 years, the Bush Administration and its supporters in Congress have pursued ideologically-driven policies of widespread deregulation and less government regulation. Nobody likes government intervention in their daily lives, but we also expect government to establish a fair and open marketplace and protect us from unfair abuse by big companies. When it came to mortgages and other financial services, the federal government under President Bush turned a blind eye to the sub-prime mortgage market and opposed Congressional efforts to end predatory lending practices in which lenders encouraged homebuyers to finance homes they couldn’t really afford with nontraditional mortgages. The administration and the Federal Reserve compounded the problem by keeping interest rates artificially low to stimulate economic growth; the unfortunate side effect of keeping interest rates low was that banks and other financial services companies decided to use that borrowed money to buy into the rising real estate market – further driving up home prices and forcing potential homebuyers into nontraditional mortgages. Finally, companies that originated all these sub-prime mortgages sold them off to investment banks that used them to create mortgage-backed securities to sell to insurance companies, pension funds, and other mainstream investors – and the government failed to adequately regulate these complicated investments. When the real estate bubble collapsed last year, this whole unstable house of cards came tumbling down. I don’t feel sorry for the mortgage companies and banks that made these unwise home loans, nor do I feel sorry for the big investment firms that invested in them – they deserve to suffer the consequences of their poor investments – but I am very concerned that they’re going to pull the rest of the American economy down with them. WHAT’S AT STAKE When the real estate market collapsed last year, these mortgage-backed securities plummeted in value. The banks, insurance companies, and pension funds that invested billions of dollars in this “bad paper” suddenly had a lot of assets that weren’t worth very much. That raised the question of whether they still had enough money to pay off their customers. As soon as public concerns arose about a particular bank or financial services company, its customers started trying to take their money out before the bank failed. These runs on the bank make troubled banks cash shortage even worse. Today, many banks won’t loan each other money because they’re concerned they won’t get that money back. More to the point, many banks have stopped making loans to individuals and small businesses because they’re hoarding cash to make sure they can meet their depositors’ withdrawal demands. Such a credit crunch could ripple through our local economy, destroying jobs in Pittsburgh and forcing local small businesses to close. Moreover, it is already making it harder for creditworthy borrowers to get car loans, mortgages, and student loans. The banking and real estate industries’ collapse has already hurt retirees’ pensions, senior citizens’ incomes, and working families’ savings – and there’s a strong possibility the damage will spread and get much worse. This crisis threatens everybody on Main Street – not just the fat cats on Wall Street. That’s why Congress needed to act. WHAT THE BILL DOES Congressional leaders and the Administration have worked together over the last 2 weeks to put together a plan that would stabilize our economy and end the credit crunch that could bring our economy to a standstill. The plan is based on the presumption that our economy won’t turn around until the unworkable mortgages are dealt with and the public’s confidence in the security of our banking system is restored. In order to achieve these goals, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act would authorize the U.S. Treasury to buy up to $700 billion in mortgages and other assets that are clogging the balance sheets of financial institutions and making it difficult for working families, small businesses, and other companies to access credit. Once the federal government owned these mortgage backed securities, it could restructure the mortgages it owned completely – allowing creditworthy homeowners to avoid foreclosure – and work with private sector lenders to restructure the mortgages in which it has partial ownership. In addition, the federal government will offer loan guarantees to encourage private sector mortgage holders to renegotiate viable mortgages for creditworthy homeowners who are at risk of foreclosure. In addition, the bill raises the FDIC insurance coverage of bank deposits from $100,000 to $250,000 – which should help to increase public confidence in the banks. The bill included provisions to make sure that corporate executives who made bad decisions are not allowed to dump their bad assets on the government and then walk away with millions of dollars in salary and stock options. In order to participate in this program, companies will lose certain tax benefits and, in many cases, must limit executive pay. The bill also limits “golden parachutes” and requires that unearned bonuses be returned. This bill will also allow the government to recover all of the taxpayers’ money spent by giving the government partial ownership in the companies that sell their problem assets to the Treasury. Over time, most of those assets are expected to recover much of their value – and the government will be able to resell mortgages at a profit. If the government still comes up short after we sell off those assets, the bill requires the president to submit a plan to Congress to make the taxpayers whole by imposing new fees on the financial services industry. That way, over the long run, taxpayers will not end up paying for Wall Street’s mistakes. Wall Street and the people who made these unwise investments will bear the burden, as they should. And, finally, this bill provides strong oversight over the stabilization efforts it calls for. Rather than giving the Treasury all the funds at once, the legislation gives the Treasury $250 billion immediately, and then requires the President to certify that additional funds are needed ($100 billion, then $350 billion subject to Congressional disapproval). The Treasury must report on the use of the funds and the progress in addressing the crisis. The bill also establishes an Oversight Board so that the Treasury can’t act in an arbitrary manner. Finally, the bill establishes a special inspector general to protect against waste, fraud, and abuse. In addition, Congress is going to hold oversight hearings in the coming weeks and months to determine what happened, who’s responsible, and what we need to do to make sure it doesn’t happens again. We’re also going to make sure that whoever broke the law is prosecuted so this doesn’t ever happen again. SUMMARY In closing, I want to let you know that I don’t know any Wall Street bankers, and that I haven’t taken any contributions from Wall Street Bankers. My concern has always been Pittsburgh and our local economy. I decided to vote for this economic stabilization bill because I felt that doing nothing would put Pittsburghers jobs, pensions, and savings at risk. I hope that time will prove me right, but in any case I wanted you to know why voted to support this bill.
09.29.2008	Washington, DC – Congress has approved legislation to repeal the federal law requiring the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to utilize an outdated HIV/AIDS testing protocol. This legislation (S. 2162), which will improve the treatment and services provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs to veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and other health care concerns, included legislation originally introduced by Representative Doyle as a freestanding bill that would modernize the HIV testing policies of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (H.R. 6114, the Simplifying and Updating National Standards to Encourage Testing of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Act of 2008 or the “SUNSET Act”). S. 2162 is expected to be signed into law by the President in several days. Congressman Doyle released the following statement today: “S. 2162 will do a lot to improve the quality of care our veterans and their families receive,” Congressman Doyle said after the passage of this bill. “I am very pleased that the House and Senate approved this legislation. Our veterans deserve no less.” “I’m especially pleased that the final version of this bill contains my legislation allowing the VA to adopt up-to-date policies that would improve the health care provided to veterans with HIV/AIDS,” Congressman Doyle added. “The current HIV testing policies used by the VA were mandated by Congress 20 years ago. They fail to reflect everything we’ve learned about HIV testing and treatment over the last two decades. “Under the VA’s current outdated testing policies, half of all HIV-positive veterans in the VA health care system don’t get diagnosed until they’ve already suffered significant damage to their immune systems. Many of these veterans are already receiving health care services through the VA. Diagnosing these veterans earlier would enable the VA to provide them with medical care that could extend their life expectancy substantially and improve their quality of life. Consequently, I believe that the VA should adopt a more modern policy on HIV/AIDS testing, including the testing of all incoming patients, for HIV/AIDS unless a patient specifically opts out. “The VA wants to adopt such policies – while maintaining its counseling and data privacy policies – but since the VA’s HIV testing policies are mandated by law, Congress must enact a new law to change them. That’s why I introduced the Simplifying and Updating National Standards to Encourage Testing of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus Act of 2008. Today we’ve brought the VA’s HIV/AIDS testing policy into the 21st Century.” # # #
09.29.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) issued the following statement this afternoon after House consideration of H.R. 3997, legislation intended to end the current financial crisis: “I voted in favor of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act because I believed that, while this was far from a perfect bill, doing nothing would hurt my constituents more. I was not prepared to stand by and put the people I represent and their 401(k) plans, their savings accounts, and their retirement savings – as well as their ability to get student loans, car loans, small business loans, and mortgages – at risk. “I have called upon our Congressional leadership to bring us back into session as soon as possible so we can come to agreement on a solution to this crisis. Hopefully, we can strengthen the next bill’s provisions for helping homeowners, eliminating CEOs’ golden parachutes, and recovering any taxpayer money spent to stabilize our nation’s financial system.” ###
09.22.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) and U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) presented Jim Rohr, Chairman of the Pittsburgh 250 Commission, and David Kahley, Director of the Progress Fund, with copies of legislation approved by Congress to commemorate Pittsburgh’s 250th anniversary. “I am proud to join with my House colleagues today in honoring the rich history of achievement and innovation of the Pittsburgh region. From the Great Allegheny Passage Trail to the revitalized Point State Park and the renewed recognition of the Forbes Trail across our great Commonwealth, it is clear that we have a strong public-private partnership that is both honoring our heritage and building for our future,” Congressman Doyle said. The Senate passed its version of this legislation, S.Res. 452, on February 13. The House of Representatives is expected to pass its version, H.Res. 1000, tomorrow. The bills note the important role that Pittsburgh has played in our nation’s history and the many contributions that the citizens of Pittsburgh have made to our nation. The bills also laud the completion of the Great Allegheny Passage Trail. Congressman Doyle’s remarks follow: Good afternoon. I’m pleased to be joined here today by the members of southwestern Pennsylvania’s Congressional delegation and a number of local civic leaders to announce the passage in the U.S. House and Senate of legislation commemorating Pittsburgh’s 250th anniversary. Earlier this year, Senator Specter and I introduced legislation to mark the 250th anniversary of the occupation and naming of Pittsburgh by British and American troops during the Seven Years’ War – the real first world war – which we here in the United States usually refer to as the French and Indian War. From a trading post in the wilderness, Pittsburgh became a gateway to the frontier as our young nation expanded westward. As the nation grew, Pittsburgh became a center of manufacturing and commerce. During the Civil War, Pittsburgh became the arsenal of freedom – a role which it repeated in World War I and World War II. During the Gilded Age, Pittsburgh produced the steel that was needed to build railways and factories and bridges and ships and skyscrapers. And, as one might expect, Pittsburgh’s key role in the nation’s economy also made it a major battleground in the battle for the rights of working men and women. My family came to Pittsburgh over a hundred years ago to work in the mills. My grandfather was a steelworker in the Carrie Furnace. My father worked in the Edgar Thompson steel mill. I worked at the Jones & Laughlin mill in the South Side a couple of summers when I was working my way through college. Pittsburgh is full of people who came to our city – and our country – to work hard and prosper. The region is still known for its work ethic and its commitment to family, church, and community. Manufacturing is still an important part of the region’s economy, but with the decline of the steel industry, education, health care, and finance have now come to dominate our region’s economic life. The region’s achievements in these fields are impressive as well. Researchers in Pittsburgh have invented the polio vaccine, for example, and made breakthroughs in the fields of computers, robotics, and organ transplantation, among others. Today, Pittsburgh is a global leader in materials science, regenerative medicine, nanotechnology, robotics, and software design. New technology developed and being developed in Pittsburgh is revolutionizing American life. In a word, Pittsburgh still has a substantial and disproportionate impact on our nation and the world. But in contrast to the past, when Pittsburgh’s environment was so noxious that in 1868 writer James Parton referred to it as “Hell with the lid off,” Pittsburgh today has such a high quality of life that it’s the only city in the country to be named America’s Most Livable City not once but twice. Today, visitors can enjoy the view of the city from Mount Washington through clear blue skies, and boaters and kayakers travel the Three Rivers. We have something for everyone – from major league sports teams like the Steelers, the Pirates and the Penguins to the graphic arts, world class museums, a vibrant music scene, and great live theater. We’ve got fantastic food, diverse cultural heritage, historic architecture, and unique, colorful neighborhoods. And in recent years, we’ve built an amazing network of beautiful trails that provide a remarkable recreational opportunity to residents and visitors alike. With completion of the Great Allegheny Passage Trail, a 132-mile hiking and biking trail will connect Pittsburgh with Cumberland Maryland, where it meets the C&O Canal trail from Washington, DC. I think that’s a wonderful way to commemorate that march through the wilderness 250 years ago that culminated in the creation of the City of Pittsburgh. As you might imagine, the people of Pittsburgh are looking forward to celebrating their city’s 250th anniversary. We’ve organized a year-long celebration named “Pittsburgh 250” to celebrate this milestone and plan for our region’s future. I’m pleased to be joined here today by Mayor Ravenstahl, our Congressional delegation, and a number of civic leaders from the 14 counties that make up southwestern Pennsylvania to present them with copies of the legislation Congress has passed to mark Pittsburgh’s 250th birthday. I can only hope I look that good on my 250th birthday! So now, without further ado, I’d like to ask my colleagues to join me in presenting Mayor Ravenstahl and our distinguished guests with this copy of H.Res. 1000, legislation commemorating the 250th anniversary of the naming of Pittsburgh, which was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives early this morning. The text of H.Res. 1000 follows: 110th CONGRESS 2d SessionH. RES. 1000 To commemorate the 250th Anniversary of the Naming of Pittsburgh as the culmination of the Forbes Campaign across Pennsylvania and the significance this event played in the making of America, in the settlement of the Continent, and in spreading the ideals of freedom and democracy throughout the world. IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES February 26, 2008 Mr. DOYLE (for himself, Mr. ALTMIRE, and Mr. TIM MURPHY of Pennsylvania) submitted the following resolution; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform ________________________________________ RESOLUTION To commemorate the 250th Anniversary of the Naming of Pittsburgh as the culmination of the Forbes Campaign across Pennsylvania and the significance this event played in the making of America, in the settlement of the Continent, and in spreading the ideals of freedom and democracy throughout the world. Whereas the Forks of the Ohio at today's Pittsburgh should forever be remembered as the place where an army of British and Colonial soldiers took control of Fort Duquesne from the French, a turning point in the French and Indian War, the first world war; Whereas the British victory in the French and Indian War sowed the seeds of Colonial discontent with British rule, beginning the chain of events that led to the American Revolution; Whereas the British Army under the leadership of General John Forbes built the first road across the Allegheny Mountains, thus securing the Gateway to the West for British and later American settlement; Whereas General Forbes and Colonel George Washington named the location Pittsburgh, in honor of William Pitt the Elder; Whereas Fort Pitt provided a safe haven for peoples from around the world to follow in Forbes' and Washington's footsteps to travel to Pittsburgh to settle the continent and to pioneer advancements in industry, science, technology, education, the environment and the arts; Whereas Pittsburgh went on to become the Crucible of the Industrial Revolution, producing glass, steel, and aluminum that have a place in every American skyline; and perfecting the technologies that made it possible for alternating current to illuminate the Nation; Whereas the people of the Pittsburgh region pioneered modern philanthropy, implemented the first smoke control regulation, developed the polio vaccine, and conquered rejection of transplanted organs, improving countless lives worldwide; Whereas Pittsburgh is today a global leader in such emerging fields as materials science, regenerative medicine, nanotechnology, electro-optics, robotics, data storage, computer science, and commercial nuclear power; Whereas Pittsburgh is home to more than 100 multi-billion dollar global corporations that improve the lives of people around the world; Whereas Pittsburgh provides a high quality of life to its residents, offering unparalleled arts and cultural opportunities for a place of its size; Whereas Pittsburgh has been named America's Most Livable City, the only place in America to earn that honor twice; Whereas Pittsburgh is commemorating its naming and its impact on the world with Pittsburgh 250, a year-long celebration involving communities in 14 Pennsylvania counties, parts of seven states and the District of Columbia; Whereas Pittsburgh 250 has connected Washington, DC to Pittsburgh by supporting the completion of the Great Allegheny Passage Trail, the longest hiking and biking trail east of the Mississippi and the most accessible great trail experience in the world, providing an important new outdoor recreational asset to the people of the Mid-Atlantic United States; and Whereas Pittsburgh has accomplished all of these things with an unparalleled history of public and private partnership: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) recognizes the 250th anniversary of the Naming of Pittsburgh, known as a significant event in American history; (2) recognizes that Pittsburgh 250 is organizing the commemoration on behalf of 14 counties in southwestern Pennsylvania; (3) encourages participation for all Americans to learn how the Forbes Campaign, the opening of the Gateway to the West, the Industrialization of America, and the environmental transformation of Pittsburgh helped to make America; and (4) commends the contributions of those who have followed trails to Pittsburgh for 250 years to shape the world we live in and the Nation we have become. ###
09.17.2008	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted last night to pass comprehensive energy legislation that would reduce U.S. energy costs, increase our country’s energy independence, promote the adoption of renewable energy supplies and energy-efficient technology, and create new green jobs. The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act (H.R. 6899) was approved by a vote of 236 to 189. “This bill reflects the kind of comprehensive national energy policy I’ve been working for,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “This legislation, if enacted, would ease the strain on American consumers, and I call on the Senate and the President to approve it before Congress adjourns.” The Comprehensive American Energy Security & Consumer Protection Act would roll back tax breaks for big oil companies and require oil companies to pay royalties already owed to taxpayers. The legislation would also invest heavily in research on renewable energy resources like wind and solar power – new technologies that could create millions of good-paying new jobs. It would also require utility companies to generate 15 percent of the electricity they produce from renewable sources – like wind power, biomass, tidal, geothermal and solar power – by 2020, which would save consumers $13-18 billion cumulatively by 2020 and significantly reduce emissions that contribute to global warming. The bill would also require the Administration to sell roughly 10 percent of the oil from the government’s oil stockpile – the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) over the coming weeks and months. Such actions have reduced gasoline prices by as much to 30 percent when they were taken in recent years. Finally, the bill would permit offshore drilling in waters between 50 and 100 miles offshore of each affected state that decides to allow such drilling. The existing ban on drilling within 50 miles of the coast would remain in place. This legislation must now be considered by the Senate. “While no legislation is perfect, this bill represented a thoughtful balance between short-term efforts to bring down energy prices and long-term efforts to develop sustainable alternatives to our dangerous dependence on oil from violent and unstable parts of the world,” Congressman Doyle said. “It was also our last real chance to enact meaningful energy legislation this year.” “I have been working as a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee for a number of years to end what President Bush called our addition to foreign oil and promote the development and adoption of energy technology that will be good for both the environment and our economy,” Congressman Doyle noted. Last year, Congressman Doyle helped draft and enact historic energy legislation (H.R. 6, P.L. 110-140) to curb oil market manipulation, increase vehicle fuel efficiency to 35 miles per gallon in 2020 (the first Congressional increase in more than three decades), set new energy efficiency standards for lights and appliances, and promote the use of more affordable American biofuels. “I am currently working with my colleagues on the House Energy and Commerce Committee to draft legislation that will halt global warming while protecting US jobs and making the United States the world leader in advanced energy technology,” Congressman Doyle added. “I am optimistic that with new leadership in the White House next year, we will be able to enact responsible, effective legislation to curb global warming.” ###
07.21.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) testified today at an Federal Communications Commission (FCC) field hearing in Pittsburgh that the FCC should enact telecommunications policies that make broadband available and affordable for all Americans. “Broadband” refers to Internet service with high data transfer speeds that make features like streaming video possible. Broadband isn’t currently available to tens of millions of Americans, and the United States currently lags behind a number of other countries in the cost, availability, and speed of broadband access. The FCC Commissioners and their staff heard testimony from a number of expert panelists and members of the public about broadband Internet and the digital future. Congressman Doyle is Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. The text of Congressman Doyle’s testimony follows in its entirety: I want to thank you Chairman Martin, the Commissioners and your staff for coming to Pittsburgh for today's hearing on broadband and our digital future. I also want to thank Carnegie Mellon University for hosting today’s hearing. I think it’s important that policymakers get out of Washington, DC, and into the communities that are affected by our decisions. It's why I appreciate Chairman Martin, that you’ve taken the FCC today outside DC's beltway and into our Golden Triangle. I believe this hearing is important because it allows the FCC to look at several broadband and digital media policy questions from the perspective of a typical American community – how we use the net, how we innovate on it, and how we make sure everyone has access to it. During the time I’ve had the pleasure of representing the Pittsburgh area in Congress, I’ve been committed to maintaining one of Pittsburgh’s greatest assets – the smart people that grow up here or come from all over the world to learn and work here. I'm proud that Pittsburgh is America’s Most Livable City, a distinction that no other city has ever won twice, and I am dedicated to make sure that the graduates of our world class research institutions have jobs that allow them to stay in Pittsburgh after graduation – either at companies like Intel, Seagate and Google, or by creating their own startups like several of the witnesses here today. I also want to make certain that Pittsburgh has enough to offer them and their families after they punch off the clock. A word about startups. One of the leaders of internet search before the dot-com bubble burst was Lycos. Lycos started on this campus. But shortly after its inception, the company left for the Boston area, believing that Pittsburgh couldn't accommodate their new business. Today, the panels of witnesses you will hear from will tell a different story, that Pittsburgh is a great place to live and work. But they'll also tell you the challenges facing their businesses are ones they would face no matter where their companies are located. That's why I believe so strongly in an open internet for everyone: an open internet that allows entrepreneurs to create new products and services; an open internet that allows people to communicate with their neighbors across the street or friends around the world; and an open internet that transforms how government works, better prepares our children, and enables us to compete in a global economy. The internet is more than the companies that build it. It’s more than the companies that point us where to go on it. It's something that many of us use daily – and those of us who don't fall further behind. That’s why, as Vice-Chairman of the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet in the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I've been working to develop federal policies that keep the Internet open. I've also been working to make sure that high speed Internet access is available to everyone. I believe some witnesses today will testify about how important it is to ensure that low-income communities aren't on the wrong side of a new and growing broadband divide, and how they’re currently bridging that divide. Our nation has made a significant commitment to providing universal telephone service, especially to those in rural communities. I believe the time has come for Universal Service 2.0, which addresses the challenges that people in both urban and rural areas face in getting connected to the high speed Internet. Today you'll hear stories from entrepreneurs, academics, representatives from companies that deliver the internet, and companies that create things you want to see on it – from people who are laying the pipes to people working to get low-income communities on those pipes. And contrary to what we usually hear in Washington, we'll hear from the public – who have so much at stake on these issues, but who are too often ignored in policy discussions in our nation’s capital. You know, a couple of times in Congress, I’ve mentioned Girl Talk, a Pittsburgh DJ who’s found international success. His mash-ups bring him praise in the pages of Rolling Stone, but his work also brings up some interesting policy questions, like should Internet providers scan what you send on the Net so they can filter and block copyrighted content? If you're a fan of Girl Talk's, and you’re aware he has a new CD called Feed the Animals, the answer had better be no. Girl Talk transforms copyrighted songs into completely new works of art thanks to a well-established carve-out in the law called Fair Use, the same part of the law that allows putting the songs on your CD onto an mp3 player – but internet providers who block copyrighted content aren't likely able to make that distinction. So Girl Talk and his fellow artists could end up being the fair use dolphins caught in the tuna net of digital piracy, so to speak. Stories like that his and the others we hear today can turn policy debates from the abstract to the concrete. Today's field hearing will be a success if we remember the testimony given here when we make decisions in Washington about our country's digital future. The beauty of the Internet is that it's chaotic and always evolving. The Internet has the potential to enhance education and health care delivery, promote free speech and the creation of new ideas, mitigate the problems caused by concentration in traditional media, foster innovation and job creation, and spur economic growth. The examination you conduct today will go to the heart of that promise and the future of the Internet. The decisions you make in the future will determine whether the potential the Internet holds for improving our lives and our society is fully achieved. I urge you to give careful consideration to the testimony of today's witnesses, who know so much about the Internet and how government policies could choke off its promise – or power it up and extend it to everyone.
07.18.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Chris Smith (NJ-4), today criticized syndicated talk show host Michael Savage for his recent comments disparaging families with autistic children and questioning cases of autism spectrum disorders as frauds. “The medical evidence that autism is a real neurological condition is overwhelming and unequivocal,” Congressman Doyle said this morning. “That’s why it’s so disturbing that Michael Savage would make such an uninformed statement about autism as he did.” “This gives us an opportunity to educate and inform the public that autism is the nation’s fastest growing developmental disability and is reaching epidemic proportions in the U.S. Now is a time for steadfast commitment to advance treatments and services for this growing disability,” said Rep. Chris Smith. One out of every 150 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. The care involved in treating these symptoms often requires hours of intensive therapy every week - regimens that are often inaccessible or unaffordable for many families. With early intervention and concentrated treatment, the symptoms of autism spectrum disorder can be mitigated, enabling individuals with autism and their families to participate fully in their communities. “After years of inadequate funding, the advocacy of the congressional autism caucus and many non-profits has helped to realize more than a 5 fold jump in autism funding over the past 10 years. We need to continue with this momentum, and these unfortunate comments do nothing to help the lives of those suffering with this often debilitating disorder,” Rep. Chris Smith said. “I understand that shock jocks get the big bucks for being as obnoxious and controversial as possible – but there’s no reason we have to stand idly by and let him boost his market share at the expense of families who are dealing with a heartbreaking and financially draining health issue,” Congressman Doyle said. “Those of us who know more about autism than Michael Savage have a responsibility to call him out on this issue,” Congressman Doyle added. “If I were a radio station that broadcast his show or a company that sponsored it, I’d certainly reconsider my association with it, and if I were a parent of an autistic child, I’d certainly demand that.”
07.16.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) will hold a field hearing in Pittsburgh on Monday, July 21, starting at 4:00 p.m. in the McConomy Auditorium at Carnegie Mellon University. The Commission will hear from expert panelists about broadband Internet and the digital future. Congressman Doyle, who is Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, will provide testimony, as will a number of Internet researchers, innovators, and entrepreneurs from Pittsburgh or with ties to Pittsburgh. “I want thank Chairman Martin, the Commissioners and their staff for making the trip to Pittsburgh and holding this hearing on the future of broadband,”Congressman Doyle said in announcing the hearing. “Southwestern Pennsylvania has been a hotbed of innovation in computer and internet technology over the last 25 years, and I believe that the Commission will benefit greatly from the insights that our local experts will share with them.” The hearing is open to the public. Seating will be available on a first-come, first-served basis, and members of the public will have an opportunity to provide their own comments and suggestions after the scheduled panelists have made their presentations. Public comments will be made part of the permanent hearing record. Sign language interpreters and open captioning will be provided for this event. Other accommodations for people with disabilities may be requested by sending an e-mail to fcc504@fcc.gov or calling the Consumer & Governmental Affairs Bureau at 202-418-0530 (voice) or 202-418-0432 (tty). “Broadband” refers to Internet service with high data transfer speeds that make features like streaming video possible. Broadband isn’t currently available to tens of millions of Americans, and the United States currently lags behind a number of other countries in the cost, availability, and quality of broadband access. Witnesses are expected to address issues like competition, “net neutrality,” new technology, and the “broadband divide” – the issues that are preventing or discouraging millions of Americans from purchasing high-speed Internet service. For additional information about the hearing, please visit the FCC’s website athttps://www.fcc.gov.
07.11.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) made a statement on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives this afternoon calling on President Bush to sell 70 million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve in order to lower gasoline prices. Congressman Doyle said "We could have [more] oil in the domestic economy just by releasing 10 percent of the SPRO – without affecting any national security concerns – and gasoline prices could come down."
06.24.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) issued the following statement today at a House Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet hearing on the Universal Service Fund: “Mister Chairman, I want to thank you for holding this hearing and encouraging us not to get bogged down in details today, but to keep things very general. “Generally, I think the Universal Service Fund needs to be blown up like the Deathstar. “We need to reevaluate the program’s goals and establish new priorities. We need to completely reform the Fund by moving away from subsidizing telephone service and instead put our money toward the broadband future. For now, I’ll call this needed reform Universal Service 2.0 “I bet the rural residents of the Smoky Mountains, or rural Pennsylvania for that matter, don’t know what the Universal Service Fund has done for their ability to get affordable telephone service during the program’s 10 years. That’s too bad, because the Fund has also probably helped their school get high-speed access to the Internet. And it’s helped their library link up to other sources of information around the world. And if they’re struggling to get by, it might have helped them afford to keep connected to their community. “Those parts of the Universal Service Fund haven’t grown too much. What also hasn’t grown is the percentage of American households who have a telephone. Can we get the chart I had prepared on the screen? But what has grown, up nearly 300 percent from where it first started 10 years ago, is the High Cost Fund for local telephone service in rural America. That growth is the columns you see on the screen. But the top line on the chart – telephone take rates -- that’s staying relatively flat. “As those red bars have grown exponentially, the impact on my constituents has grown too. Pittsburghers are paying more, regardless of their ability to pay, to provide basic telephone service to rural America, regardless of its economic need. “A single mom in my district with a wireline and wireless phone is paying roughly 55 dollars a year into the Universal Service Fund, when she might not even have broadband she needs in her own home to further her career or her children’s education. “Perhaps that single mom’s 55 dollar a year investment in our infrastructure, into Universal Service 2.0, would be worth it if it paid off in economic growth for the nation and better opportunities for her children. Perhaps it’d be worth it if it helped wire her affordable housing project with broadband. Or if broadband in her parent’s home helped her dad manage his diabetes. Or if a portion of her investment went towards broadband in a community far away where her son will take a promotion to manage a plant years from now. “1996 can be remembered for many things. The Telecommunications Act. The Macarena. One witness today was working on digitizing the Star Wars Trilogy. I won my first battle for re-election. So I remember 1996. Some things are timeless, like the Star Wars Trilogy. Some things are better left to that time, never to be heard again -- like the Macarena. And some things need to be completely revamped. Like the Universal Service Fund. “Thank you for holding this hearing this morning on Universal Service 2.0, Mister Chairman, and I yield back my time. Congressman Doyle is the Vice-Chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet.
05.18.2008	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) made the following statement this afternoon as part of a rally and march in downtown Pittsburgh to call attention to the ongoing campaign of genocide currently underway in the Darfur region of Sudan: "I'm proud to join you here today at this march and rally to remember the more than 2700 villages in Darfur that have been destroyed or damaged by the Sudanese government and its tribal allies. "Some catastrophes are just too big for us to get our minds around – the cyclone in Burma and the earthquake in China, for example. But those were natural disasters. There's nothing that anybody could do to stop or prevent them. "What's especially disturbing about Darfur is that this atrocity is man-made. 400,000 people have died, and 4 million people have been displaced. Countless thousands have been raped, beaten, and tortured and forced to flee for their lives. "I see a number of marchers carrying signs with the names of some of the villages that have been attacked by the Sudanese military and the Janjaweed militias over the last 5 years. These are sad but important reminders of what’s been done to the innocent civilians living in the Darfur region of Sudan. "According to the best available estimates, two thousand, seven hundred and fifty one villages in Darfur have been destroyed or damaged– that's an incredible number. And it doesn't even count the villages across the border in Chad and the Central African Republic that have been attacked as well. But I don't think that this number alone can begin to convey the devastation and brutality of what’s been done by the Sudanese government to its own citizens. "I would urge anyone who wants to get a better handle on what that many destroyed villages means to get on a computer and check out Darfur on Google Earth. Just keep scrolling across the map of Darfur. You'll see thousands of burnt-out huts and ruined villages. The people who used to live there are, for the most part, dead or displaced. Many were raped and beaten. Some are probably in captivity being tortured. And millions more are at risk of death from violence, disease, and starvation. "These horrors must stop, but the Sudanese government continues to commit more atrocities. Just two weeks ago, for example, the Sudanese military bombed a schoolhouse, killing half a dozen children and adults. Last weekend, rebels from the Justice and Equality Movement launched an attack on the Sudanese capital itself, and in response the government launched a brutal crackdown on suspected opponents in Khartoum and ramped up its military activity in Darfur. "I don't mean to suggest that the rebels are blameless. Many of them are nothing more than bandits and murderers. But the government has created this state of affairs, and the government remains the greatest single obstacle to ending the violence. "That's why events like this are critically important. We need to keep pressuring our government to place its top priority on working with the international community to compel the Sudanese government to end the killing and allow the UNAMID peacekeeping force into the country to carry out its mission. Events like this help raise the public’s awareness about Darfur and motivate them to take action. "I'd urge everyone who wants to stop the genocide in Darfur to ask your Representatives and Senators to urge President Bush to boycott the opening ceremonies of the Olympic Games in Beijing unless China changes its policies in Sudan and puts pressure on the Sudanese government to end the genocide and allow the UNAMID peacekeeping force to do its job. Specifically, I'd ask you to urge your Congressmen and women to cosponsor House Resolution 1093, which calls upon the President to do just that. I'm pleased to note that I’m an original cosponsor of this important bill. If enough of our representatives sign on, I'm confident the President will get the message! "I want to thank you all for coming out to express your compassion and concern for the people of Darfur. God bless you. Please keep up the fight."
04.28.2008	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) tonight presented Manami Kitazawa from Woodland Hills High School with the First Prize in the 2008 Congressional High School Art Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Her artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is an intricately detailed charcoal drawing depicting a blue jean jacket hanging on a coat rack. Her work was selected out of a collection of 50 entries from 10 high schools in Pennsyl-vania’s 14th Congressional District. The second place prize went to Crystal Flora from Northgate High School for her untitled acrylic painting. The third place prize went to Pamela Patton from Sto-Rox High School for her pastel composition entitled “Snow Bound.” The fourth place prize went to Alyssa Haynes from Penn Hills High School for her pencil and white colored pencil composition entitled “African Wildlife Collage.” The fifth place prize went to Alyssa Savatt from the Sto-Rox High School for her acrylic painting entitled “African Couple.” “These young people are clearly very talented, and they obviously worked long and hard on the artwork they submitted,” Congressman Doyle said. “I’m very proud to represent these talented young artists and their families.” The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held tonight at the University of Pittsburgh’s Frick Fine Arts Building in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the fourteenth year in a row that Congressman Doyle has hosted such events. All of the public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District were invited to participate in this competition. The judges awarded the following 12 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: 1) Brittani Taylor Taylor Allderdice High School “A Pocket Full of Poppies” Acrylic Paint 7) Jamie Reitz South Allegheny High School “The Heat of Pittsburgh Mills” Mixed Media 2) Shelby Fogal Taylor Allderdice High School “Just Lion on a Rock” Colored Pencil 8) Daniel Brown Sto-Rox High School “Bird on a Chair” Colored Pencil 3) Ryan Dunlap Carrick High School “Glass Sphere” Digital Photography 9) Joanna Krause Woodland Hills High School “Still Life/Pencil” Pencil/Graphite 4) Joseph Kameen Central Catholic High School “Water Pitcher” Acrylic Paint 10) Allie Solomon Woodland Hills High School “Self Portrait” Acrylic 5) Crystal Flora Northgate High School “Medusa” Acrylic Paint 11) Kevin Brown Woodland Hills High School “Man on the Moon” Pastel 6) Stacie Giancola Penn Hills High School Untitled Colored Pencil 12) Krystal Waldschmidt Northgate High School Untitled Pastel
02.07.2008	Washington, DC – Last night, the U.S. Senate gave its final approval to legislation introduced by Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) that would eliminate the existing Federal Trade Commission policy of removing phone numbers from the national Do Not Call Registry five years after they are added to the list. This legislation will now be sent to President Bush to be signed into law. “Last year, Senator Dorgan and I introduced legislation to protect more than 150 million Americans from a renewed onslaught of telemarketing calls,’”Congressman Doyle said today. “Today we can claim victory on behalf of these savvy consumers.” “The millions of Americans who signed on to the “Do Not Call” registry will be able to continue sitting down at dinner knowing that their phones won’t be ringing off the hook,” Senator Dorgan said. “I’m pleased with the overwhelming support in Congress for this program and look forward to the President signing this bill.” The federal Do-Not-Call Registry put in place by the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission in 2003 is one of the most successful government programs ever created. Over 150 million home and mobile telephone numbers have been added to the National Do Not Call Registry since its inception on June 27, 2003. Unfortunately, the regulations written by the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission require that the registry delete individuals’ numbers after 5 years, so that people have to sign up again every five years. Consequently, as of June 2008, millions of people will begin to receive telemarketing calls again. Many of them may not realize that their listing has expired and that they need to resubmit their information to the registry if they want to keep blocking telemarketers’ phone calls. The Doyle-Pickering bill, referred to as the Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007 (H.R. 3541), would eliminate the existing expiration of listings on the federal Do Not Call Registry. If this bill is enacted, individuals wouldn’t have to worry about signing up for the Do Not Call list every five years. The Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007 would not change the existing law allowing individuals to take their names off the Do Not Call list if they wish to do so. Identical legislation was introduced in the Senate (S 2096) by Senators Byron Dorgan and Ted Stevens. In response to the introduction of this legislation, the Federal Trade Commission announced in October that it would put its plans to start purging names from the list on hold until Congress had made its will known on the issue or it could conduct a new rulemaking. If the bill is signed into law, the FTC will have to throw out its plans to take names off after five years. “The folks who signed onto the Federal Do Not Call Registry fully expected that they’d never have to deal with cold calls from business pitchmen in their own homes again,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Today we can say that Congress has heard them and delivered the goods.” Passage of the Do Not Call Improvement Act was hailed by consumer advocate groups. “If Congress hadn’t taken this action, millions of consumers would once again be barraged with annoying telemarketing calls at the dinner table,” added Christopher Murray, Senior Counsel of Consumers’ Union. “Thanks to the efforts of Congressman Doyle and Senator Dorgan, consumers will get some more peace and quiet.” “The Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007 is common sense legislation that would protect consumers and improve their quality of life,” said Tom Nelson, Chief Operating Office at AARP. “Senator Dorgan, Senator Stevens and their colleagues understand that the "Do Not Call" rule not only protects families from dinnertime disruptions, but also protects consumers against predatory telemarketers. By extending the Do Not Call registry, without requiring individuals to repeatedly sign up, this act will save consumers from needless hassle - and potential fraud.” Congressman Chip Pickering (MO-3), the lead Republican cosponsor in the House said, “People want a government of results that works. When we first offered the Do-Not-Call Registry, it was wildly popular and millions of Americans signed up – but they were on the verge of having their evenings and family dinners once again disturbed by phone solicitations. They would have wondered ‘What broke? Why do I have to sign-up again when I haven’t changed my mind from the first time?’ So, we offer to the American people this bipartisan example of a commonsense reform.” “Passage of the Do Not Call Improvement Act is proof that consumers can win out over the special interests,” Congressman Doyle said today at the press conference. “Today, Congress has made one of the most popular federal services even better.”
02.05.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) presented a check for $150,000 to Mr. Rod Doss, publisher of the New Pittsburgh Courier this morning. This funding will be used to protect, preserve, digitize, and exhibit historically significant photos from the 750,000 photographs contained in the archives of the Pittsburgh Courier newspaper. “The Pittsburgh Courier photo archives provide valuable documentation of the history of the momentous struggle for racial equality in our country,”Congressman Doyle said today. “They have the power to motivate us all to continue to pursue this important goal. That’s why I’m proud to be associated with this important project.” “The images in the Courier archives tell an incredible story of a culture that is intrinsic to the fabric of our country.” Mr. Doss said in accepting the check. “The New Pittsburgh Courier is honored to be the keeper of what is an incredible and extensive record of Black history throughout the twentieth century. We believe it is a national treasure which must be preserved and shared.” At its peak, the Pittsburgh Courier was the most widely circulated Black newspaper in the United States, publishing 21 regional editions across the nation as well as a national edition. The visual history contained in the photographs in these archives covers a period of almost 100 years and provides an in-depth and compelling national and international view of all facets of Black history. The images in this collection include photographs of African American troops in World War II; photographs of civil rights boycotts and demonstrations; photographs of Black leaders like Martin Luther King, Malcolm X, and Senator Adam Clayton Powell; photographs of the "Little Rock Nine" attending classes at Central High in Little Rock, Arkansas; photographs of the Negro baseball leagues; and nationally and internationally known jazz, blues and classical musicians like Lionel Hampton, Billie Holiday, and Billie Eckstine. Congressman Doyle worked diligently last year to include federal Fiscal Year 2008 funding for this project in the U.S. Department of the Interior’s Save America’s Treasures program. "We are extremely grateful to Congressman Mike Doyle for his support of the Courier archive project,” Mr. Doss added. “The Congressional appropriation he has secured will provide the foundation for a long-term effort to protect and preserve the archival images for future generations.” “I can think of no better way to kick off Black History Month than with this initiative to preserve these important artifacts,” Congressman Doyle observed.
01.28.2008	Washington, DC – Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement today following President Bush’s State of the Union speech: “In my view, the most significant feature of the President’s State of the Union speech tonight is that it was the last one of his Presidency. President Bush’s two terms have not been good for our country in many ways, and the fact that this address signals the one year countdown to the end of his term is more important than anything the President said in his speech tonight.”
01.03.2008	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA) and Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) today announced that the East End Cooperative Ministry (EECM) will be receiving $470,000 in federal funding as part of the FY08 Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Act. The EECM provides in-school and after-school outreach programs that provide academic support, recreational activities, life skills training, career development and intensive intervention for elementary, middle, and high school students. "The East End Cooperative Ministry has an impressive record of providing direct, effective social services to the residents of the East End's economically distressed neighborhoods over the last 4 decades," Congressman Doyle said today. "Consequently, when the East End Cooperative Ministry came to me to ask for help for this initiative, I jumped at the opportunity to help keep some of our most at-risk young people out of trouble and give them the tools they need to achieve their full potential." “The East End Cooperative Ministry program is a perfect example of how the federal government can help communities develop effective programs designed to reduce crime and juvenile delinquency,” said Casey. “Investments in our children through education and community engagement will ultimately help provide opportunities for growth and development. I didn’t hesitate in joining Senator Specter and Congressman Doyle to secure this funding” The funding will be used for at-risk youth programs that are designed to give students opportunities in the community other than crime and juvenile delinquency. Since 1970, East End Cooperative Ministry (EECM) has provided direct, hands-on services to the hungry, the homeless, the elderly, and the at-risk children and youth living in Pittsburgh’s economically distressed East End neighborhoods. EECM serves an area that includes the East Liberty, Lincoln-Lemington, Larimer and Garfield sections of Pittsburgh. Compared to the city as a whole, EECM’s service area population is poorer, less educated and less likely to be employed.
12.26.2007	Pittsburgh, PA – US Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)released a list of his funding requests that were included in the federal fiscal year 2008 omnibus appropriations bill signed into law by President Bush earlier today: Energy and Water $468,384 for 3 Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program, from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Section 219, for the removal of stream discharges from municipal combined sewers $2.46M from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers General Investigations Account for the Upper Ohio River, Emsworth, Dashields and Montgomery Locks and Dams Navigation Improvement Project Feasibility Study. Funding will be used to complete a study of the condition of the Upper Ohio River Locks and Dams and to recommend alternatives for replacement or repair. (Altmire, Doyle, Specter, Casey request) $42,312,000 from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Construction General Account, for the Emsworth Dam Rehabilitation. Funding will used for emergency repairs to Emsworth Dams. (Altmire, Doyle, Specter, Casey, President request) $69,175,200 from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, General Investigations Account, for the Lower Monongahela Improvement Project for Locks and Dams 2,3, and 4. Funding will be used to repair the navigation facilities along the Lower Monongahela River (Murphy, Doyle, Specter, Casey request) $4.92M for the International Alternative Cleanup Technology Agreement under the Department of Energy’s Defense Environmental Cleanup Account to demonstrate and deploy innovative, more cost-effective ways to clean up nuclear weapons production waste. (Doyle, Specter, McHenry request) Financial Services $150,000 from the Small Business Administration for The North Side Industrial Development Co., New Business-New Beginning Program for a business training program. Labor/HHS/Education $307,413.60 from the HHS Health Resources and Services Administration Account for The Children’s Home of Pittsburgh expansion project for facilities and equipment. $150,000 from the HHS Health Resources and Services Administration Account for Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh for construction of a new facility dedicated pediatric health care and research (Specter, Casey, Doyle request) $307,413.60 from the HHS Health Resources and Services Administration Account for The Upper Rooms at the Reformed Presbyterians Woman’s Home. Funding will support construction of a connector between The Upper Rooms and the Reformed Presbyterian Home. Commerce-Justice-Science $94,000 for Gwen’s Girls from the DoJ Juvenile Justice Account for prevention services for at-risk girls, ages 8-18, in economically depressed areas of Allegheny County. $47,000 for Homestead Borough Police Department from the DoJ Edward Byrne Account for Crime Prevention and Assistance for coordinating a drug prevention program for the community. $376,000 from the DoJ Edward Byrne Account for Duquesne University Cyber-Security Preparedness for Small and Medium Sized Business Project. $188,000 for Family Communications’ Western PA CARES from the from the DoJ Juvenile Justice Account. Funding will provide prevention services for pre-school age children from low-income families in economically depressed areas of Allegheny County. $94,000 for East End Cooperative Ministry from the from the DoJ Juvenile Justice Account. Funding will be used for at-risk youth programs that prevent crime and juvenile delinquency (Doyle, Specter, Casey request) $376,000 for East End Cooperative Ministry from the from the DoJ Juvenile Justice Account. Funding will be used for at-risk youth programs that prevent crime and juvenile delinquency (Specter, Casey, Doyle request) $94,000 for Heritage Health Foundation’s 4 Kids Learning Network from the Juvenile Justice Account. Funding will assist the program in addressing pre-kindergarten preparation, after-school learning support, and family support services. $47,000 for YouthWorks, Inc. from the Juvenile Justice Account. Funding will help provide services within the framework of the following program areas: youth employment program development, training, and private sector experiences. Transportation/HUD $998,000 from DoT for Allegheny County East-West Corridor Rapid Transit Airport to Mon Valley. Funds will go towards planning, and engineering work for rapid transit corridor linking the Pittsburgh International Airport with Downtown Pittsburgh, Oakland, and the Mon Valley. (Doyle, Altmire request) $98,000 from HUD for the Focus on Renewal Cultural Arts Center in McKees Rocks for planning, design, and construction of a recreational and educational facility. $98,000 from HUD for improvements to the Coraopolis downtown business district. $98,000 from HUD for the Allegheny County Department of Planning in Pittsburgh, PA for planning, design, renovation, construction and buildout of a brownfield site. (Doyle, Altmire request) $1,247,500 from DoT for the East Carson Street Widening Project for the construction project, including widening the cartway to two lanes and improvements to sidewalks, street lighting, drainage, and ADA compliant street crossings. (Specter, Casey, Doyle request) Interior and Environment Bill $800,000 from EPA for 3 Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program to fix municipal sewers, protect the region’s streams and augment the investment of local governments in compliance with the Clean Water Act. (Specter, Doyle request) $150,000 from DoI from the Saving America’s Treasures account for the Pittsburgh Courier Archive Preservation Military Construction/VA $828,000 from DoD for the Visiting Quarters, Phase 1, Pittsburgh Air Reserve Station, Coraopolis, Pennsylvania. The funds are provided for planning and design of their facility. (Specter, Casey, Doyle request). Homeland Security $500,000 for the Regional Joint Readiness Center, Pittsburgh, PA from the FEMA Predisaster Mitigation Account. Funds are for planning and development of a center to organize regional responses to terrorist attacks and natural disasters (Doyle, Altmire, Murphy request). In addition, the following funding requested by Congressdman Doyle was included in the Fiscal Year 2008 appropriations bill for the Department of Defense, which was signed into law by President Bush on November 13: Defense $4 Million for Carnegie Mellon University's Perpetually Available and Secure Information Systems (PASIS) program, which develops technologies to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and security essential to government communication and intelligence. $1.6 Million for The Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Commercialization Center to support the commercialization of advancements in nano-structured materials that have military and commercial applications. $1.2 Million for the Doyle Center for Manufacturing Technology for research on the application of commercially available technologies, training, and infrastructure in small manufacturing enterprises (SME's) that supply critical goods and services to the U.S. Department of Defense. $1.2 Million for Stemnion’s Rapid Wound Healing Technology Development Project for research on amnion-derived cell therapies for rapid wound healing applications. These efforts will focus on empirical testing, selection and optimization, as well as preclinical toxicity, to improve the healing of traumatic wounds. $800,000 for Prologic’s Effects Based Decision Support Services (EBODSS). The EBODSS project is using analytical engines and advanced probabilistic display environments to create decision support tools for lethal and non-lethal weapons and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance sensors. $800,000 for Eye360’s Advanced Panoramic Sensor System Program to develop advanced visual imaging technologies and related sensor and computing technologies for the unmanned aerial vehicles used by the U.S. military. $800,000 for research on Advanced Performance Transparent Armor for Tactical Wheeled Vehicles, which will be integrated into current and future combat vehicles based on technologies developed and tested by the Army Research Laboratory (ARL) and its industrial partners (including Pittsburgh Plate Glass). $1.9 Million for the Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative’s Advanced Regenerative Medicine project, which is working to improve treatments for soldiers who receive traumatic burns in the line of duty by utilizing regenerative medical technology like tissue engineering, cellular therapies, biosurgery, and artificial and biohybrid organ devices. $800,000 for Converteam’s Integrated Power System (IPS) Converter, a new component of the IPS program that the Navy initiated to develop all-electric power systems that can be used in any class of ship. $800,000 for research by Body Media on advanced non-invasive glucose monitoring, a technology that will improve the way diabetes monitoring is conducted and allow for improved and maintained health of soldiers.
10.30.2007	Washington, DC – Today, the House Energy and Commerce Committee approved legislation introduced by Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) that would eliminate the existing Federal Trade Commission policy of removing phone numbers from the national Do Not Call Registry five years after they are added to the list. “The national Do Not Call Registry has given Americans the opportunity to tell telemarketers ‘Don’t call us, we’ll call you,’” Congressman Doyle said in a statement today. “Most folks who’ve signed up with the registry don’t even realize that their names will be automatically removed after five years. I don’t think they should even have to worry about it.” “My bill will give 150 million Americans a little much-needed peace and quiet,” Congressman Doyle added. “It takes one more hassle off their plate.” The federal Do-Not-Call Registry put in place by the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission in 2003 is one of the most successful government programs ever created. Over 132 million home and mobile telephone numbers have been added to the National Do Not Call Registry since its inception on June 27, 2003. Unfortunately, the regulations written by the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission require that the registry delete individuals’ numbers after 5 years, so that people have to sign up again every five years. Consequently, as of June 2008, millions of people will begin to receive telemarketing calls again. Many of them may not realize that their listing has expired and that they need to resubmit their information to the registry if they want to keep blocking telemarketers’ phone calls. The Doyle-Pickering bill, referred to as the Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007 (H.R. 3541), would eliminate the existing expiration of listings on the federal Do Not Call Registry. If this bill is enacted, individuals wouldn’t have to worry about signing up for the Do Not Call list every five years. The Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007 would not change the existing law allowing individuals to take their names off the Do Not Call list if they wish to do so. Identical legislation in the Senate (S 2096, introduced by Senator Byron Dorgan) was approved by the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation today as well. “It’s my hope that we can get this bill considered by the full House in the near future,” Congressman Doyle said after the hearing. “There’s no reason why Congress couldn’t fast-track this legislation and have it signed into law by the end of the year.” Just last week, the Federal Trade Commission announced that it would put its plans to start purging names from the list on hold until Congress had made its will known on the issue. ###
10.17.2007	I love listening to music. You won't find me too far from my iPod when I'm commuting between my home in Pittsburgh and work here in Washington. When I was growing up, my friends and I listened to the radio constantly – we only had AM at the time – and there were a lot of great stations that played music we loved. So much has changed since then. In the decade since Congress passed the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, we’ve seen monumental innovation in music and the technology that plays it. There’s not just free broadcast radio anymore, there’s subscription satellite radio, internet radio like webcasting, music downloads from sites like iTunes or eMusic.com, and wireless phones. Some are more of a competitor to radio than others – try listening to a live webcast in your car, for example. But the innovation hasn’t just changed how or where we listen to music, or how it’s distributed. It’s also fundamentally changed the way that music is created. These changes will have a lasting impact on the future of technology and creativity. Back when I was younger, the most impressive technology available to musicians was Peter Frampton's talk box in "Do You Feel Like We Do." But today, musicians are able to create successful albums on equipment easy and affordable enough to use in their homes. Powerful software many artists use today is included with some new computers. The same professional software that lets top 40 artists warble through songs and still come out sounding alright is now accessible enough to let anyone sound like they have perfect pitch. Technology has allowed lots of people to create new forms of music that don’t fit neatly into our current copyright legal structure. One of the genres that have exploded in popularity involves mashups. I first heard about mashups when I learned about a constituent of mine who spins under the name Girl Talk. At the time, Girl Talk was a biomedical engineer by day in Pittsburgh who made music at night. His last record, Night Ripper, made the top of 2006 lists from Rolling Stone, Pitchfork, and Spin Magazine among others. He’s become so successful that he’s quit his day job and now travels the world drawing sold-out crowds for his concerts – even performing at festivals with well-known artists like The Police and The Beastie Boys. Girl Talk’s music is different than what I grew up with because he mixes rap lyrics on top of beats that he creates using snippets of existing songs. Sometimes listeners can recognize these snippets. But sometimes they’re so short and so altered that they’re beyond recognition – and they’re mixed together in such a way that you have no idea how someone thought they’d sound good together. But they do, and the music form works. The Chicago Tribune wrote that Girl Talk’s music is "based on the notion that some sampling of copyrighted material, especially when manipulated and re-contextualized into new art, is legit and deserves to be heard." As he explained to me recently, hip hop artists and rappers often release instrumental versions of their songs, acknowledging that the beats can and should be ripped up, altered, edited and reused for the listener’s own creations. Newsweek said that Girl Talk’s not a Pittsburgh pirate. I think Newsweek’s right. A lot of what he does falls under the fair use doctrine. Girl Talk’s use of music is transformative. Furthermore, no one can reasonably think that the 5 seconds of a song he might use takes sales away from those artists who produced the songs that have been sampled. But Girl Talk told me that he’d love to find a way to compensate the artists who created the songs he significantly used to make Night Ripper. Unfortunately, our current copyright regime makes doing that difficult if not impossible. At the rates that some record companies charge for samples, and because he uses so many for such a short period of time, that would cost him so much he’d have to charge consumers hundreds of dollars for the CD. I’ve always said that the Internet is the First Amendment come alive. It allows anyone to speak to anyone willing to listen. I’m excited to see music companies and online music retailers like Amazon.com, iTunes, eMusic.com, and Yahoo selling songs without the digital locks that prevented consumers from using the music they paid for when and how they’d like. Removing those digital locks means that consumers can buy songs from the retailer of their choice, play them on the device of their choice, and maybe even experiment with creating their own mashups. The explosion of innovation and creativity that changes like this will generate can benefit all who make and listen to music. I suspect that, in the long run, it makes more sense for record companies and retailers to embrace change rather than to fight it. I don’t think Congress is ready to address mashups in legislation yet. But when Girl Talk performs live at a concert hall, festival, or a dance club, his performance is unquestionably legal because the venue compensates the artists and songwriters for their work through organizations like BMI or ASCAP. If the issues of copyright and proper compensation can be solved there, maybe we need to consider that model for works like Girl Talk’s – which aren’t based on sampling from one song, but from hundreds. June 12, 2007 – Congressman Doyle met with Newsweek Magazine technology reporter Steven Levy and Pittsburgh mashup artist Gregg Gillis (aka Girl Talk) at Franktuary in Pittsburgh for an interview about how art and technology have outpaced U.S. music copyright law and what should be done about it. The interview was featured in Levy's column in the June 25, 2007, issue of Newsweek. ###
10.16.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Tim Murphy (PA-18), and Jason Altmire (PA-4) announced that a meeting with Department of Defense officials this afternoon resulted in several significant steps forward in their efforts to build a new military commissary in Allegheny County. Today’s meeting produced two significant breakthroughs. The Army gave the local Congressional delegation a commitment to keep the Charles E. Kelly commissary open until 2011. Prior to today’s meeting, the DoD had only agreed to keep this facility open until 2009. The Army also informed the delegation that on November 27, it would recommend that the Commissary Commission authorize a new commissary in Allegheny County in the near future. The Army anticipates that the Commissary Commission would approve that recommendation, contingent upon the availability of adequate funding for the new facility. “Today, we finally got the Army to give us a commitment to keep the commissary at the Charles E. Kelly base open until we can get a new facility built,” Congressman Doyle said after the meeting. “This is a substantial improvement over the DoD’s previous commitment to keep the commissary open through 2009.” “The Army’s recommendation of a new commissary is great news for the region’s military personnel, veterans, and their families,” said Congressman Tim Murphy. “There are more than 160,000 military, retirees, reservists and their families in the region from Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia who are eligible for commissary services. Without a local commissary, military families would have to drive more than 400 miles roundtrip to the next closest commissary.” “I am extremely pleased with the results of today’s meeting,” Congressman Altmire said. “The DoD’s commitment to keep the Charles E. Kelly commissary open until 2011 maintains a vital benefit that had been promised to our region’s 160,000 eligible military personnel, retirees and their families.” The Army estimates that the new commissary will cost $8.2 million. The House and Senate have already appropriated $4 million for this new facility, and the delegation is confident that they can secure the additional funding needed next year. In order to expedite the construction of the new commissary facility, which will be located on county land adjacent to the Pittsburgh International Airport, the Army has expressed its support for a “build to lease” approach in which Allegheny County would build the facility and then lease it back to the Department of Defense. “I spoke to [Allegheny County County Executive] Dan Onorato this afternoon, and he was receptive to the concept of build to lease if that was the fastest way to build a new commissary,” Congressman Doyle added. “Dan Onorato’s been a steadfast supporter of efforts to keep a commissary in Allegheny Country since this battle began.” “I want to thank all the members of the Pennsylvania, Ohio, and West Virginia Congressional delegations, in both the House and Senate, who have been steadfast in their support for keeping a commissary open in southwestern Pennsylvania.,” Congressman Doyle said. “The entire delegation has really worked as a team to make sure that our military personnel, retirees, and their families have access to the services they’ve been promised.” “Getting the Army to support us shows what can happen when everybody works together, from the Congressional delegations of Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ohio, to Governor Rendell to Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato to local groups,” Congressman Murphy said. “We are all a step closer to bringing a new commissary to Southwestern Pennsylvania and the continuation of a benefit that our military personnel and veterans have long deserved.” “I want to thank my colleagues in the House and Senate as well as County Executive Dan Onorato for working together to ensure the commissary’s future in southwest Pennsylvania,” Congressman Altmire added. “This effort required broad support and cooperation and I look forward to continuing to work together on the building of a new commissary.” ###
09.26.2007	Washington, D.C. - Congressional Coalition for Autism Research and Education (C.A.R.E.) co-chairs U.S. Reps. Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Mike Doyle (D-PA) today announced that an accord was signed with the Northern Ireland Assembly’s Autism Caucus to partner in promoting autism awareness, research and legislative ideas. The Memorandum of Understanding was signed by Congressmen Smith and Doyle on behalf of the Congressional Coalition for Autism Research and Education and by Members of the Northern Ireland Legislative Assembly Iris Robinson, Dominic Bradley, Michelle O’Neill, John McCallister and Kieran McCarthy on behalf of the Northern Ireland Assembly’s Autism Caucus during a visit to Washington, D.C. by a delegation of members of the Northern Ireland Assembly, the Wales Assembly and the Celtic Nations Autistic Partnerships. “At what I hope will be the first of many meetings between our caucuses, we took the historic step of signing a Memorandum of Understanding, signifying that we are committed to addressing autism in our nations and sharing what we learned and our best practices together. Autistic individuals and their caregivers—in both the U.S. and Northern Ireland—will truly benefit from this collaboration,” said Smith. “Autism affects families in many nations,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Much work needs to be done to learn more about this disorder, diagnose it early, and provide the necessary services to the affected families. We need to avoid re-inventing the wheel, and I think that partnerships like the one we’ve established today will help us make the greatest possible progress towards these important goals.” “What we are taking part in today is a very significant step. This Memorandum of Understanding aims to identify areas of common interest, helping us develop legislation and share research,” said Iris Robinson, Chairwoman of the Northern Ireland Assembly Health Committee. Among other things, the Memorandum of Understanding specifically aims to: Identify areas of common interest, e.g. access to research data; Encourage U.S.-Northern Ireland exchange opportunities; and Share and debate policy issues on autism. According to the terms of the document, each caucus will assign a coordinator to act as a conduit for their respective caucus; a free flow of information will be shared via email and correspondence; and annual meetings will be convened with alternating venues. Smith and Doyle heralded this agreement as important milestone for the peace process in Northern Ireland. “For so many years, Congressional interest in Northern Ireland was focused on the pressing issues of peace and justice there,” Congressman Doyle said in reflecting on today’s agreement. “As someone who was actively involved in pushing for peace in Northern Ireland throughout my tenure in Congress, it’s a real pleasure to begin this legislative collaboration with the duly elected representatives of a peaceful Northern Ireland.” Smith has long been engaged in the Northern Ireland peace process, chairing over a dozen Congressional hearings on obstacles and progress to bringing peace to the nation and authoring several bills that have passed the House and/or become law to promote peace and justice in Northern Ireland. Smith referenced this history during the meeting, calling the cross-party, cross-community delegation’s commitment to working together on autism “a testament to the progress that has been made in Northern Ireland.” “It is a new day when cross-party leaders can come together to address an important social issue such as autism as a unified front,” Smith said. During the meeting with the visiting delegation, Smith and Doyle encouraged their fellow lawmakers from Northern Ireland and Wales to continue to use their caucus to actively promote legislation that addresses the needs of autistic individuals and their caregivers. “The key is to keep your coalition non-partisan so you have everyone moving the ball down the field. Always remember that as a caucus, you have weight. You are not just one member. In our case, you are the voice of over 160 members,”Smith told the delegation, pointing to the bipartisan nature and large membership as keys to all C.A.R.E. has accomplished in its seven years of existence. Among C.A.R.E.’s successes that Smith pointed to are the significant increases in federal funding for autism treatment, research and awareness programs. Smith, Doyle and the caucus have helped increase federal funding for autism by nearly 10 times the amount it was in the mid-1990’s.
09.19.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today hailed the passage of important drug safety legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives today and expressed satisfaction that his provision requiring unique identifying codes for all new medical devices produced. “The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 will significantly improve the safety of our prescription drugs and medical devices,” Congressman Doyle said this afternoon. “I’m pleased that I was able to help write this important legislation.” The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 establishes the most sweeping drug safety provisions in years, creating a new program to monitor the safety of drugs after they go on the market. Up until now, the FDA has concentrated its efforts on ensuring the safety of new prescription drugs before they receive approval to be marketed. There has been growing concern however that, once a drug receives FDA approval, its safety is not monitored. The shortcomings of this approach became clear once problems with the prescription drug Vioxx were reported. This bill establishes a new program within the FDA to monitor the safety of drugs after they have been approved and marketed. “This legislation is sorely needed to restore the public’s confidence after the Vioxx scandal,” Congressman Doyle observed. “But the bill goes far beyond just fixing the Vioxx problem.” The bill also increases the fines of up to $10 million for violating FDA safety standards. The bill also imposes tough new fines for false or misleading advertising. It also creates publicly available databases to track the clinical trials of new prescription drugs seeking FDA approval. Making this type of information available to the public, including academic experts and other independent observers, will dramatically increase the likelihood that safety concerns raised by the data are not overlooked. The bill also increases FDA staffing levels in order to provide faster approval of promising new drugs, and it includes several provisions to encourage the development of pediatric drugs and devices. “The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act also includes a provision I wrote that requires medical devices to carry a unique identifier, like a barcode or an identification chip,” Congressman Doyle noted. “Giving medical devices a unique ID will make it easier for doctors and hospitals to determine whether a patient is affected by a medical device recall and reduce the amount of time needed to notify him or her. In addition, it would reduce medical costs by improving supply chain management.” earmark - earmarks ###
09.10.2007	Washington, DC – Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that he is introducing legislation to make the federal “Do Not Call” list permanent. “The ‘do not call’ list was one of the most popular actions the federal government has ever taken,” observed Congressman Doyle, who is Vice Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, which has jurisdiction over this program. “It makes no sense to force people to sign up again every couple of years. Unfortunately, that’s just what will happen if action isn’t taken.” The federal Do-Not-Call Registry put in place by the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission in 2003 is one of the most successful government programs ever created. Over 132 million home and mobile telephone numbers have been added to the National Do Not Call Registry since its inception on June 27, 2003. Unfortunately, the regulations written by the Federal Communications Commission and the Federal Trade Commission require that the registry delete individuals’ numbers after 5 years, so that people have to sign up again every five years. Consequently, as of June 2008, millions of people will begin to receive telemarketing calls again. Many of them may not realize that their listing has expired and that they need to resubmit their information to the registry if they want to keep blocking telemarketers’ phone calls. “I suspect very few people are saying, ‘gee, I really miss getting those telemarketing calls at dinnertime – I wish the government would take me off the do not call list,” Congressman Doyle said. “That’s why I’m introducing legislation to make the federal ‘do not call’ list permanent.” Congressman Doyle’s legislation, the Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007, would eliminate the existing expiration of listings on the federal Do Not Call Registry. If this bill is enacted, individuals wouldn’t have to worry about signing up for the Do Not Call list every five years. The Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007 would not change the existing law allowing individuals to take their names off the Do Not Call list if they wished to do so. “Without passage of the Do-Not-Call Improvement Act of 2007, over 50 million phone numbers will be purged from the Do Not Call Registry within the next year,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The hassle will be tremendous – with no real pay-off. The best way to deal with this nightmare is to end it before it starts. That’s why I’m introducing this bill. I hope that Congress will pass it as rapidly as it did the legislation authorizing the Do Not Call Registry in 2003.” earmark - earmarks ###
08.14.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today released a list of his funding requests that were included in the federal fiscal year 2008 appropriations bills approved by the House of Representatives this year. “The annual federal appropriations process provides Members of Congress with the opportunity to make certain that federal assistance programs adequately address local needs,” Congressman Doyle said today. “In recent years, I’ve been able to secure federal funding to help deal with the recurring flooding in Millvale and Etna and the longstanding threat posed by old natural gas wells in Versailles through this process. ”Such funding requests also allow Members to help federal agencies secure access to cutting-edge research being conducted in their districts.” ”I’ve worked hard to secure federal funding for the 14th District, and I’m pleased to report that a number of my appropriations requests were included in the Fiscal Year 2008 House appropriations bills.” A list of Congressman Doyle’s Fiscal Year 2008 Federal funding requests follows below. Fiscal Year 2008 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill: $1 Million for the Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program, from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for the removal of stream discharges from municipal combined sewer systems $2 Million for the Army Corps of Engineers Upper Ohio River, Emsworth, Dashields and Montgomery Locks and Dams Navigation Improvement Project Feasibility Study. Funding will be used to complete a study of the condition of the Upper Ohio River Locks and Dams and to recommend alternatives for replacement or repair. $43 Million for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Construction General Account, for the Emsworth Dam Rehabilitation. Funding will used for emergency repairs to Emsworth Dams, which are in a progressive state of failure. $70.3 Million from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, General Investigations Account, for the Lower Monongahela Improvement Project for Locks and Dams 2,3, and 4. Funding will be used to address the deteriorated condition of the navigation facilities along the Lower Monongahela River. $5 Million for the U.S. Department of Energy’s International Agreement to demonstrate and deploy innovative energy and environmental technologies and methodologies for cleaning up nuclear waste. Fiscal Year 2008 Labor/HHS/Education Appropriations Bill: $200,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration for The Upper Rooms at the Reformed Presbyterians Woman’s Home. Funding will support construction of a connector between The Upper Rooms and the Reformed Presbyterian Home. $200,000 from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Resources and Services Administration for The Children’s Home of Pittsburgh expansion project for facilities and equipment. Fiscal Year 2008 Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations Bill: $100,000 for Gwen’s Girls from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Juvenile Justice Account for prevention services for at-risk girls, ages 8-18, in economically depressed areas of Allegheny County. $50,000 for Homestead Borough Police Department from the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Account for Crime Prevention and Assistance for coordinating a drug prevention program for the community. $200,000 for Duquesne University Cyber-Security Preparedness for Small and Medium Sized Business. Funding will support Duquesne’s project to assess the cyber security preparedness of small and medium sized businesses. $200,000 for Family Communications’ Western PA CARES. Funding will provide prevention services for pre-school age children from low-income families in economically depressed areas of Allegheny County. $50,000 for East End Cooperative Ministry. Funding will be used for at-risk youth prevention programs. $50,000 for Heritage Health Foundation’s 4 Kids Learning Network, Funding will be used to provide pre-kindergarten preparation, after-school learning support, and family support services. $50,000 for YouthWorks, Inc., Funding will help provide youth employment program development, training, and private sector work experiences. Fiscal Year 2008 Transportation/HUD Appropriations Bill: $1 Million for Allegheny County East-West Corridor Rapid Transit Airport to Mon Valley. Funds will go towards planning and engineering work for rapid transit corridor linking the Pittsburgh International Airport to Downtown Pittsburgh and the Oakland area to the Mon Valley. $100,000 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Economic Development Initiative for the Focus on Renewal Cultural Arts Center in McKees Rocks for planning, design, and construction of a recreational and educational facility. $100,000 from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Economic Development Initiative for the Coraopolis Street Light Replacement Project. Funds will go towards replacing 55 inoperative streetlights in the downtown business district of Coraopolis. Fiscal Year 2008 Agriculture Appropriations Bill: Steel City Biofuels’ Braddock Biofuels Initiative would receive an as-yet-to-be-determined level of funding under this bill. This funding would support the development of a biofuel cooperative in Braddock, bringing local residents together in an effort to provide renewable fuel alternatives to the community, reduce dependence on petroleum, strengthen the local economy, improve air quality, and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The dollar amount will be determined by the US Department of Agriculture, working with Steel City Biofuels. Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program Project would receive an as-yet-to-be-determined level of funding under this bill to help Allegheny County’s smaller communities to address the sewer problems. The dollar amount will be determined by the US Department of Agriculture, working with the Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Program. Fiscal Year 2008 Financial Services Appropriations Bill: $150,000 from the Small Business Administration for The North Side Industrial Development Corporation’s New Business-New Beginning Program. Funding will go to an entrepreneurial program to train residents of distressed areas of southwestern Pennsylvania to start their own businesses. Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations Bill: $5 Million for Carnegie Mellon University's CyLab ongoing Perpetually Available and Secure Information Systems (PASIS) program, which develops technologies to guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and security essential to government communication and intelligence. $2 Million for The Pennsylvania NanoMaterials Commercialization Center, an independent national initiative to support the commercialization of advancements in nano-structured materials that have military and commercial applications. $1.5 Million for the Doyle Center for Manufacturing Technology, which conducts innovative research on the application of commercially available technologies, training, and infrastructure in small manufacturing enterprises (SME's) that supply critical goods and services to the U.S. Department of Defense. $1.5 Million for Stemnion’s Rapid Wound Healing Technology Development Project for research on amnion-derived cell therapies for rapid wound healing applications. These efforts would focus on empirical testing, selection and optimization, and preclinical toxicity to improve healing of traumatic wounds. $1 Million for Prologic’s Effects Based Decision Support Services (EBODSS). The EBODSS project is using analytical engines and advanced probabilistic display environments to create decision support tools for lethal and non-lethal weapons and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance sensors. $1 Million from the Navy’s Office of Naval Research for Eye360’s Advanced Panoramic Sensor System Program to develop advanced visual imaging technologies and related sensor and computing technologies for the unmanned aerial vehicles used by the U.S. military. $1 Million for research on Advanced Performance Transparent Armor for Tactical Wheeled Vehicles, which will be integrated into current and future combat vehicles based on technologies developed and tested by the Army Research Laboratory (ARL) and its industrial partners (including Pittsburgh Plate Glass). $2 Million for the Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative’s Pittsburgh Tissue Engineering Initiative for the Advanced Regenerative Medicine project, which is working to improve treatments for soldiers who receive traumatic burns in the line of duty by utilizing regenerative medical technology like tissue engineering, cellular therapies, biosurgery, and artificial and biohybrid organ devices. $1 Million for Converteam’s Integrated Power System (IPS) Converter, this is a new facet of the overall IPS program that the Navy initiated to develop all-electric power systems that can be used in any class of ship. Significant advantages have been found by developing state of the art power converters that allow the affordable integration of advanced weapons, propulsion, and power distribution systems on ships. $1 Million for research by Body Media on advanced non-invasive glucose monitoring, a technology that will improve the way diabetes monitoring is conducted and allow for improved and maintained health of soldiers. Funding for these requests is not guaranteed at this time. The Senate must approve counterpart legislation, and then the differences between the House and Senate versions of the bills must be worked out by House-Senate conference committees. At that point in the process, the provisions providing funding for projects in the 14th District could be deleted – or the funding level changed. The final versions of the bills (often referred to as conference reports) must then be approved by both the House and Senate. Finally, the President musts consider them, and President Bush has threatened to veto a number of the appropriations bills approved by the House. Until the final version of each bill is enacted into law, no one can be certain that this federal funding will be forthcoming. “Approval of the House bills is just the first step in the federal appropriations cycle,” Congressman Doyle pointed out, “but I will continue to work throughout this lengthy process to make sure that the funding for these 14th District requests is included in the final versions of these bills.” earmark - earmarks ###
08.02.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)joined a majority in the House of Representatives last night in voting to pass legislation that would provide health care to 11 million low-income children and strengthen Medicare. The Children’s Health and Medicare Protection (CHAMP) Act was approved by a vote of 225 to 204. “No child in this country should ever go without medical care, and no parent should ever have to hesitate to take their child to a doctor or hospital because they don’t have insurance,” said Congressman Doyle. “As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I helped draft this plan to give 11 million children the care they deserve and move us significantly closer to providing every child in our nation with high quality health care coverage.” The CHAMP Act would reauthorize the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) and renew SCHIP’s coverage of 6 million children. It would also extend health care coverage to 5 million more low-income children, covering a total of 11 million children across the country. SCHIP was established on a bipartisan basis in 1997 by President Clinton and Congress, but it must be reauthorized by September 30, 2007. If the program is not reauthorized by then, the program’s 6 million beneficiaries nationwide could lose their health care. The CHAMP Act provides $50 billion in new funding for children’s health insurance coverage through the State Children’s Health Insurance Program and Medicaid. Two out of every three uninsured children in the United States are eligible for coverage through these two programs – but there’s not enough federal funding available to cover them. The CHAMP Act would provide 5 million of these children with health insurance coverage. Children in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania stand to benefit tremendously from the CHAMP Act. If CHAMP is enacted, 188,000 children in Pennsylvania who are currently enrolled in SCHIP would get to keep their insurance coverage. In addition, the Commonwealth would see an increase in its federal funding of $50.3 million over last year’s level, allowing it to cover additional eligible but uninsured children. If this legislation is enacted, all of the 196,000 children in Pennsylvania in families with incomes below 200 percent of the federal poverty level who are currently uninsured could sign up for affordable health insurance. The CHAMP Act would also improve Medicare for 44 million seniors and people with disabilities. It includes provisions to provide financial assistance to low-income Medicare beneficiaries, control out of pocket costs for seniors, help ensure that seniors have access to the doctors of their choice, and make a series of preventative screenings free for Medicare beneficiaries: More than 622,500 Medicare beneficiaries in Pennsylvania, including seniors and people with disabilities, with incomes under 150% of the poverty level would be helped by improvements in the Medicare Savings Program and Low Income Subsidy Program. A substantial number of seniors would receive an additional $1,200 annually in federal assistance with the cost of their Medicare Part B Premium. More than 174,200 of the poorest Medicare beneficiaries in Pennsylvania would be protected with limits on out of pocket costs for prescription drugs, including those in home and community care settings. The 206,300 Pennsylvania seniors receiving Part D assistance would benefit from simplified applications and automatic renewal of eligibility – which would help to ensure that they don’t lose essential assistance due to red tape and bureaucracy. The CHAMP Act would help ensure that Medicare beneficiaries can continue to see the doctors of their choice by eliminating a scheduled 10 percent cut in Medicare reimbursement rates for doctors. Without this measure, many doctors might decide to stop participating in the Medicare program. To pay for these new benefits, the legislation would end massive overpayments for insurance companies participating in the Medicare Advantage program, saving taxpayers in Pennsylvania and across the country a lot of money. The overpayments in Pennsylvania will amount to $591 million in FY 2007 alone. Congressman Doyle believes that money should be going to benefit Medicare beneficiaries, not insurance company stockholders. New free benefits under Medicare provided under the CHAMP Act would include: diabetes screening tests screening for glaucoma an initial preventive physical examination bone mass measurement prostate cancer screening tests colorectal cancer screening tests mammography screening pap smear screening “The CHAMP Act will help ensure seniors get the care they need and are able to choose their own doctor,” observed Congressman Doyle. “The legislation we passed yesterday expands Medicare benefits and saves seniors money.” ###
07.23.2007	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle, Tim Murphy, and Jason Altmire held a press conference this morning across the street from the VA University Drive facility in Oakland to announce that they have introduced legislation to keep the renovation of the Pittsburgh VA facilities on track. “The legislation we introduced Thursday is necessary to complete this important construction,” Congressman Doyle said today. “The VA leadership’s dithering and double-dealing on this project has done a disservice to our region’s veterans. We’re working together to make things right.” “Our local veterans deserve the state-of-the-art medical facilities they were promised by the VA,” Congressman Murphy said. “Each day of inaction that goes by is costing more money and denying care to those who need it. Working together on this legislation will ensure the VA does not fall behind in delivering healthcare to our veterans.” “There are over 60,000 veterans in my district alone, and they have every right to expect they will receive the finest quality care at Pittsburgh’s VA facilities,”said Congressman Altmire. “I am disappointed that bureaucrats in Washington DC continue to drag their feet on this important project and to deny our region’s veterans the best health care that they have earned and deserve.” In 2004, the VA adopted a plan to close the Highland Drive Veterans Affairs Medical Center (VAMC) and shift that facility’s psychiatry, mental health, research, and administrative functions to the University Drive VAMC and the H. John Heinz III VAMC in Pittsburgh. This consolidation will provide veterans with better service and save the VA money in the long run, but it will require some new construction at the University Drive and Heinz facilities. Initial estimates placed the cost of construction at these two facilities at $189.2 million, and that level of funding was authorized for the project last year in P.L. 109-461, the Veterans Benefits, Health Care, and Information Technology Act of 2006. Unfortunately, the cost to complete these projects is now estimated at $248 million. The cost increase occurred because the administration has stretched the Pittsburgh project out, shifting money to other facilities where renovations were over-budget and further behind schedule. Because the VA authorities in Washington, DC, decided to stretch out the Pittsburgh project, The cost of this project now exceeds the amount authorized by Congress last year. Without an increase in the authorization, the project cannot be completed. “By stretching out this project over several additional years, the VA has driven the cost of this project up 30 percent,” Congressman Doyle observed. “We’ve had to introduce this bill to clean up their mess.” “The VA in Washington, D.C. has failed to provide the necessary funds to complete the mental health, ambulatory care, and research buildings at the Pittsburgh VA on time,” said Congressman Murphy. “This legislation ensures that the Pittsburgh VA gets the resources they need to complete this important project.” “The VA has been mired in one scandal after another, from long delays in processing claims to lapses in data security, while their executives have been paid hefty bonuses,” added Congressman Altmire. “Today, we call on VA officials in Washington D.C. to get their priorities straight and to do whatever is necessary to complete this project that is critical to veterans of western Pennsylvania.” Congressmen Doyle, Murphy, and Altmire have been working with Senator Specter and the Pittsburgh VA to keep the project on track. They have introduced legislation to provide the authorization necessary to keep the renovation of the Pittsburgh VA facilities on track (H.R. 3102). Senator Specter has introduced similar legislation in the Senate (S. 1392). “CARES made the decision to consolidate health care for the veterans in Western Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Ohio,” said Ronald F. Conley, Director of Allegheny County’s Division of Veterans Services. “The VA should step up and provide the full funding to finish the project especially for those young veterans that are returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.”
06.21.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Lee Terry (NE-2) today introduced bipartisan legislation to allow thousands of community radio stations across the country to begin broadcasting. “Diverse, informative, thought-provoking, locally-oriented programming has been dramatically restricted across the country by the current federal laws governing the separation between broadcast frequencies,” Congressman Doyle said in a conference call earlier today. “Enactment of this legislation would improve the quality of life in communities across the country by providing new and different programming – and especially programming addressing local interests and events – to these communities. In addition, the establishment of hundreds of low-power radio stations across the country would also help keep residents better informed during natural disasters and other local emergencies.” FCC Commissioner Jonathan S. Adelstein praised the bill today, saying, “Localism and diversity have always been at the heart of radio. Many low power FM stations across America reflect the best of these traditions and have flourished despite existing interference standards. As I've traveled throughout this country, I've seen local churches, schools and other community-based organizations use low power stations to broadcast locally-relevant local news, information and music. That's the essence of radio, and we should do all we can to promote it." In 2000, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) issued rules that would have allowed the establishment of thousands of low-power FM (LPFM) radio stations across the country. The FCC’s effort to promote diverse local voices on the radio dial was short-circuited by later that year when Congress enacted “the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act.” This legislation compelled the FCC to issue LPFM licenses only to low-power radio stations that were at least 4 intervals on the radio dial away from existing full-power stations – ostensibly out of concern that the new stations would cause interference with the existing stations’ signals, but effectively banning low-power FM stations from the 50 largest media markets in the country. This legislation also required an independent study of how much separation was required to ensure that existing full-power signals weren’t, in fact, compromised. The study required by the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act, which was completed in 2003, concluded that reducing the separation between radio transmission frequencies to three spaces on the radio dial wouldn’t cause interference with existing broadcast signals. -- more -- Congressman Mike Doyle Press Release June 21, 2007 Page 2 Today, Congressmen Doyle and Terry introduced legislation that would repeal the Radio Broadcast Preservation Act’s requirement that radio stations in a given market be 4 intervals apart. They believe that reducing the required space between radio stations will allow thousands of new community-based LPFM stations across the country to begin broadcasting, dramatically increasing the diversity and community-orientation of radio programming across the country – and exponentially increasing the ability of local governments to communicate important safety information to their communities in the event of terrorist attacks or natural disasters. Identical legislation has been introduced in the Senate by Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA). “WMKP, the internet radio station at Penn State University’s Greater Allegheny Campus in McKeesport is a “poster child” for why this legislation is needed,” Congressman Doyle said. “More than 30 student volunteers operate WMKP – “The Roar” – and they would love to bring their unique blend of music, commentary, and public service programming to radio listeners in McKeesport, but the station is currently limited to webcasting. WMKP has applied for an LPFM license but has not been able to secure one because there’s not enough space on the radio dial in the Pittsburgh media market under the current separation requirements. This story has been repeated across the country in the top 50 media markets where most Americans live.” WMKP General Station Manager David Edward Novak, Jr., said “An LPFM station would give WMKP the ability to spread the power of music to the surrounding community – not just on campus and on the Internet. I want to thank Congressman Doyle for working to make it possible.” Congressmen Doyle and Terry both serve on the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which has jurisdiction over federal telecommunications policy.
06.20.2007	WASHINGTON, DC – Pennsylvania Congressman Mike Doyle and Tennessee Congressman Zach Wamp today announced the formation of a bi-partisan Congressional Caucus on Robotics. The caucus will focus on key issues facing the nation’s traditional industrial robotics industry as well as issues critical to growing companies, markets, and industries based on recent technological advances that enable robots to perform functions beyond traditional assembly line tasks and to operate in environments beyond the factory floor. A kick-off event is being planned for mid-September. “Robots are now being used well beyond traditional industrial automation applications like assembling automobiles,” said Congressman Mike Doyle. “Today, they are also being used to defend our nation, perform surgery, fill prescriptions, deliver supplies and materials, and even as tools to educate our children, so it is important that we create a forum by which Congress can familiarize itself with the impact this first great technology of the 21st century is likely to have on the lives of all Americans.” “The increase in the number of emerging and potential applications for robotics is astounding,” added Congressman Zach Wamp. “Microsoft Corporation (NYSE: MSFT) chairman Bill Gates has stated his belief that the robotics industry is developing in much the same way that the computer business did 30 years ago. Forming a bipartisan caucus now will enable Congress to get a better grasp on many of the challenges and issues likely to emerge and help ensure that the United States can maintain global leadership as the robotics industry undergoes considerable expansion in the coming decade.” The preliminary, proposed goals of the bipartisan Robotics Caucus will include, but are not limited to: -- more -- Increasing general awareness of robotics industry challenges and issues among Members of Congress and policy analysts in the federal government; Educating Members of Congress and congressional staff on current and future research, development, and utilization initiatives involving robotics; Serving as a forum where robotics-related policy issues can be discussed and debated; and Ensuring that our nation remains globally competitive as the robotics industry rapidly expands and begins to exert a profound effect on the way our citizens live their lives. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ About Congressman Mike Doyle Mike Doyle (D-PA14) is currently serving his seventh term in Congress representing the 14th District of Pennsylvania, which includes the city of Pittsburgh as well as communities in the western, southern, and eastern portions of Allegheny County. His top priorities include revitalizing communities in the 14th District through economic development and high-tech initiatives, creating jobs, preserving Social Security and Medicare, providing better public education, establishing a long-term national energy strategy, and fostering a better climate for our high-tech community. Congressman Doyle serves on the House Energy and Commerce Committee which is one of only four exclusive committees in the House. There he sits on the following three subcommittees: 1) Energy and Air Quality; 2) Telecommunications and the Internet; and 3) Oversight and Investigations. He also serves on the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct and the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, where he serves on the committee’s Health Subcommittee.About Congressman Zach Wamp Known for his leadership, tenacity and energetic style, Congressman Zach Wamp (R-TN3) serves with seniority as a member of the influential House Appropriations Committee, which funds all discretionary spending by the federal government. Congressman Wamp serves as the Ranking Member of the Legislative Branch Subcommittee of Appropriations. The Subcommittee funds the operations of Congress and the Capitol, including the Capitol Police, the Library of Congress, the Capitol Visitor’s Center and the budgets of all Members of Congress and House Leadership. He is also the second most senior Republican on the Energy and Water Subcommittee of Appropriations, possibly the most important subcommittee in Congress for the State of Tennessee, because it funds all Oak Ridge operations, as well as the replacement of the Chickamauga Lock on the Tennessee River. ###
05.24.2007	Washington, DC – Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14) released the following statement today after House consideration of H.R. 2206, legislation to provide $98 billion in additional funding for the ongoing war in Iraq: “In keeping with my pledge to hold President Bush accountable for his failed policies in Iraq – and to bring our troops home from Iraq as soon as practicable – I voted against the Iraq Supplemental when the House considered it today. “Congress has approved $378 billion for the war in Iraq over the last 4 years. The President’s Iraq policy has been an abject failure. “I share the anger and frustration of the vast majority of my constituents over the President’s refusal to be held accountable for his failed plan to invade and occupy Iraq and build a stable, peaceful government in that country. Today, after four years of trying, he has failed to produce a credible plan for extracting our troops from the ongoing civil war in Iraq. “I won’t give another $100 billion to this administration without enforceable benchmarks and timelines for withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. “An overwhelming number of retired generals and Middle East experts, as well as the Iraq Study Group, have concluded that there’s no military solution to the current conflict in Iraq. It no longer serves any purpose to keep our sons and daughters in the middle of a political conflict that must be solved by the Iraqi people. “This fight is far from over. I will continue to work to hold the Iraqi Government and the Bush Administration accountable for their lack of progress, and fortunately, we will have a number of opportunities to do so. The House will take up the 2008 Defense Appropriations bill in July and the FY 2008 Iraq supplemental in September – so the fight will go on through the summer and into the fall until we succeed in bringing our troops home.” ###
04.28.2007	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)tonight presented Kristen Hrizo from West Mifflin High School with the First Prize in the 2007 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Her artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is a picture of an exotic elephant walking through the jungle. Her work was selected out of a collection of 33 entries from 8 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. The second place prize went to Joanna Krause from Woodland Hills High School for her pastel, “Hand Me a Dream.” The third place prize went to Maria Fikhman from Taylor Allderdice High School for her watercolor painting entitled “Remix of Islamic Inspired Designs.” The fourth place prize went to Jake Druga from South Allegheny High School for his Photoshop composition entitled “Cubism of War.” The fifth place prize went to Sean C. O’Connor from the Woodland Hills High School for his acrylic painting entitled “Pizza Boy.” “I can’t imagine how the judges were able to pick a winner from all these outstanding submissions,” Congressman Doyle said. “These are very talented young people who have clearly spent a lot of time and effort on the artwork they submitted. They all should be very proud of their creativity and ability.” The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held tonight at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the twelfth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted such events. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition. The judges awarded the following 10 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: 1) Jessica Parrish 6) Aisling RyanEast Allegheny High School Taylor Allderdice High School “The Corner” “Upon a Midnight Sky” Watercolor Acrylic and paste paint 2) Stephanie Mercurio 7) Justine CurleyPenn Hills High School Woodland Hills High School “Just Lion on a Rock” “Moonlight Scarecrow” Colored Pencil Charcoal 3) Nicole Sorzynski 8) Deon GoodlowPenn Hills High School Woodland Hills High School ###
04.17.2007	Washington, DC - U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14), Chris Smith (NJ-4), Eliot Engel (NY-17), and Chip Pickering (MS-3) introduced legislation today to improve and expand care and services for Americans with autism spectrum disorders. "People across the country face some difficult challenges in caring for family members with autism spectrum disorders," Congressman Doyle said at a press conference today announcing the introduction of this bill. "The Expanding the Promise for Individuals with Autism Act would help many of them by improving and expanding the federally funded services that are available." “With autism prevalence rates reaching epidemic numbers, we cannot sit back and allow another generation to be silenced by autism, nor can we allow families to face alone the challenges of caring for this lifelong affliction,” Representative Smith said. “Passage of the legislation we introduced today—the Expanding the Promise for Individuals with Autism Act—will show families that we are there for them from the first diagnosis through adulthood, marking a turning point in the way the federal government addresses autism.” Congressman Eliot Engel said, "We must expand our research to help us better understand Autism. It is equally important that we invest in treatments, interventions and services for people living with Autism. This legislation will go a long way towards providing knowledge and assistance for children and adults with Autism-whose families are often burdened with navigating a complex array of agencies in order to get their children the support they so desperately need." Congressman Chip Pickering said, “Autism is not only a disability, but it is also a gift. There are special angels among us with tremendous gifts and we want to make sure we maximize these special abilities that are unique, distinct, and wonderful opportunities. We want to maximize our understanding of autism, maximize the gifts of our children who have autism, and make sure their gifts and contributions are shared with the rest of the Nation. We can overcome the struggles of autism and meet this challenge, increase the understanding of the disease, and enhance treatments to make a difference in the lives of countless families and children. I’m proud to cosponsor this legislation that promotes autism research, treatment, services and advocacy.” Autism groups around the nation are welcoming this legislation. “This bill specifically addresses the most critically important issue to the autism community today – obtaining appropriate services across the lifespan,” said Lee Grossman, President and CEO of ASA. “Our families and individuals with autism are pleased that their voices have been heard, and encourage their colleagues in the U.S. House to support this legislation.” “Currently, there are no means to prevent autism, no fully effective evidence-based treatments, except Applied Behavior Analysis, and no cure,” said Jon Shestack, Autism Speaks Executive Committee member and founder of Cure Autism Now. “It is our fervent hope that the EPIAA will change that. We know that people with autism continue to learn across their whole lifespan. It is never too late. We need to act now to ensure that all people with autism can reach their potential and become accomplished, contributing members of their communities.” “When many parents get the news that their child has been diagnosed with autism, they're told 'Goodbye and good luck.' This is a cruel and heartless message to hear, and it is delivered to thousands and thousands of families each year who need, more than anything, support and information during a critical time,” said actor and autism advocate Bradley Whitford, who also appeared at the press conference. “Many of these families are going broke trying to provide their children with the services that they need, and many individuals with autism will need lifelong care. This legislation promises to change that message from ‘Goodbye and good luck’ to ‘Hello, we're here to help you.’” One out of every 150 children in the United States has an autism spectrum disorder. The range and severity of symptoms of autism vary from case to case, but symptoms often include difficulties in communicating and interacting with other individuals and exhibiting repetitive behaviors and intense interests in specific subjects. The care involved in treating these symptoms often requires hours of intensive therapy every week - regimens that are often inaccessible or unaffordable for many families. With early intervention and concentrated treatment, the symptoms of autism spectrum disorder can be mitigated, enabling individuals with autism and their families to participate fully in their communities. The Expanding the Promise for Individuals with Autism Act (EPIAA) would provide $350 million worth of additional treatment and support resources, increasing access to effective therapies and essential support services for people with autism. This bipartisan legislation would: Create a task force to evaluate currently available therapies and services and recommend ways to expand access to effective treatments and services across the nation. Establish a demonstration grant program to assist states with service provision Develop a grant program to help states provide Services to adults with autism Increase access to services following diagnosis of an autism spectrum disorder Increase support for institutions that train professionals who treat or serve individuals with autism Examine issues of financing for autism services Improve protection and advocacy services for individuals with autism spectrum disorders Improve technical assistance and evaluation for autism treatments, interventions and services Identical legislation (S. 937) was recently introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) and Wayne Allard (R-CO). "With strong support for this legislation in both bodies of Congress, I am confident that we will be successful in enacting it into law in this Congress,"Congressman Doyle stated. "Families dealing with autism should get this help as soon as possible." ###
03.29.2007	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today voted in favor of a federal budget for Fiscal Year 2008 that would balance the federal budget over the next 5 years while providing additional funding for high priority domestic programs like education, health care, and veterans. “The resolution that House Democrats passed today will produce a balanced budget with balanced priorities,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “It’s a shame that, even after six years of financial misrule, House Republicans still refuse to acknowledge the fact that you can’t finance two wars, cut taxes dramatically, and balance the budget at the same time.” The budget passed by the House today on a party-line vote would reach balance in five years while increasing funding for children’s health care, education, and veterans’ health care. In addition, it would provide tax relief for middle-income Americans while providing the level of funding for defense and homeland security that the President requested. The budget adopted by the House would provide $50 billion more for the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) over the next 5 years, allowing that program to provide health insurance coverage to millions of uninsured children across the country, including many of the 280,000 children in Pennsylvania who currently lack health insurance. The budget adopted by the House would increase funding for education by $5 billion next year, rather than cut education funding by $1.5 billion, as proposed in the President’s budget. This budget would increase funding for veterans health care programs by $3.5 billion next year and by $32 billion over the next 5 years. This increase is essential to ensure that all of the men and women who serve our country in Iraq and Afghanistan, including more than 58,000 Pennsylvanians so far, get the health care services they need and deserve. It would also provide funding to reduce the current backlog in veterans disability claims. The budget approved by the House would provide 6 percent more than the President proposed on homeland security – restoring the cuts that the President proposed in first responder and terrorism prevention programs. The budget the House approved would also restore the cuts in federal nutrition, low-income home heating assistance, and community development that the President proposed earlier this year. The House-passed budget includes funding to pay for middle class tax cuts like extension of the child tax credit, marriage penalty relief, extension of the 10 percent individual income tax bracket, elimination of most estate taxes, and the extension of the deduction for state and local sales taxes. Another provision of the budget keeps the AMT – the Alternative Minimum Tax – from ensnaring middle income taxpayers, whom it was never intended to cover. If such a provision isn’t adopted, more than 800,000 middle class families in Pennsylvania will have to pay higher federal income taxes. The House-approved budget does not raise taxes, but it does increase federal revenues by going after tax cheats and cracking down on waste, fraud, and abuse in government programs. The biggest difference between the House Democrats’ 2008 budget and the budgets adopted by the House under Republican control over the last 6 years is that this budget is governed by the “pay as you go” rule pushed through by House Democrats in the first 100 hours of the new Congress. That rule requires that any entitlement spending increases or tax cuts be offset, so that they don’t increase the federal budget deficit, which has run into the hundreds of billion dollars annually for a number of years now. Between 2001 and 2007, the Republican-controlled Congress increased our national debt by $2.8 trillion. Over the next 5 years, the budget approved by the House of Representatives would spend $234 billion less than the budget request the President submitted to Congress two months ago. “By adopting this budget, Congress can restore fiscal responsibility to the budget process while expanding health care coverage for our children, providing our soldiers and veterans with the care they have earned, investing in education so that our economy will keep growing, working towards an energy independent and environmentally sustainable America, and improving our homeland security,” Congressman Doyle said. “We can dramatically improve the quality of life for most Americans if we just stop cutting taxes for households with incomes of $200,000 or more,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The choice seems pretty simple to me – my priorities are clear.” The Senate adopted its own version of the Fiscal Year 2008 federal budget resolution on March 23. Now, the House and Senate must work out the differences between the two bills. Congress is required by law to complete action on a final budget resolution for the following fiscal year by April 15. ###
03.28.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted today in support of H.R. 1538, legislation that would improve the quality of medical care for wounded military personnel. “The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act is intended to fix the problems that were uncovered recently at Walter Reed Army Hospital and other military and VA health care facilities around the country,” Congressman Doyle said today. “As the son of a veteran who was wounded and disabled in World War II, I am deeply committed to making sure that our injured service personnel receive care worthy of their sacrifices,” Congressman Doyle said this afternoon. “I will work to make sure that nobody drops the ball on this again.” H.R. 1548, the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act, was introduced in response to press reports in February that uncovered grossly inadequate conditions and serious bureaucratic hassles for injured service personnel who were being treated for their injuries on an outpatient basis at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington, D.C. Subsequent investigations revealed that these problems were not confined to Walter Reed. In fact, they were widespread in VA and Department of Defense facilities across the country. A recent report by the Department of Veterans Affairs of 1,400 hospitals and other veterans’ care facilities found more than 1,000 examples of substandard conditions. “More than 24,000 service members have been wounded in Iraq since the beginning of the war – with more than 10,500 of them unable to return to duty,” Congressman Doyle observed. “It sickens me to think that these men and women who sacrificed so much for this country have been treated so disgracefully.” The Wounded Warrior Assistance Act would: Improve the system of case managers for wounded service members. The bill would improve the training and reduces the caseloads of medical care case managers for outpatient wounded service members, so that service members and their families can get the help they need when they need it. For example, the bill would require that case managers for outpatients handle no more than 17 cases and review each case at least once a week to better understand patient needs. Create a system of patient advocates. The bill would also create a system of patient advocates for outpatient wounded service members. These advocates would fight, when necessary, to ensure that outpatients get the right treatment. The bill would limit patient advocates to a caseload of no more than 30 outpatients. Establish a toll-free hot line. The bill would require DOD to establish a toll-free hot line for reporting deficiencies in facilities supporting medical patients and family members, requiring rapid responses to remediate substantiated complaints. Establish independent medical advocates. The bill would also establish an independent medical advocate to serve as a counselor and advisor for service members being considered by medical evaluation boards. Require improved training. The bill would require DOD to recommend improvements each year in the training of health care professionals, medical care case managers, and patient advocates to increase their effectiveness in assisting recovering wounded warriors. The bill, would also, at a minimum, require DOD to make recommendations about improving training in the identification of post-traumatic stress disorder, suicidal tendencies, and other mental conditions among recovering service members. Create an Army Wounded Warrior Battalion pilot program. The bill would require the Army to establish an Army Wounded Warrior Battalion pilot program at an installation with a major medical facility modeled after the Wounded Warrior Regiment program in the Marines. The unit would track active-duty soldiers in “outpatient status” who still require medical care. Begin the process of reforming the military disability evaluation system. The bill would begin the process of reforming administrative processes in order to restore the integrity and efficiency of the disability evaluation system. For example, the bill would require DOD to establish a standardized training program and curriculum for those involved in its disability evaluation system. Improve the transition of wounded service members from Armed Forces care to VA care. Finally, the bill would take some substantive steps to reduce the turmoil of being transferred from military to veterans’ medical care for service members who are discharged. The bill would create a formal transition process from the Armed Forces to the VA for service members who are being retired or separated for health reasons. The transition is to include an official handoff between the two systems with the electronic transfer of all medical and personnel records before the member leaves active-duty. The House passed the Wounded Warrior Assistance Act with overwhelming support. It must be approved by the Senate before it can be signed into law. “As a recently appointed member of the House Veterans Committee Subcommittee on Health, I will continue to closely monitor progress on this front and work to take any additional action that may be necessary to ensure that American military personnel who are injured receive only the best care and treatment,” Congressman Doyle promised. ###
03.23.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today voted in favor of legislation that would set a deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from combat operations in Iraq and set benchmarks for the Iraqi to take over security and counter-insurgent activities in that country. “I voted for this legislation because I believe the President’s policies have failed to end the sectarian conflict in Iraq – and that we need a new direction for our country’s Iraq policy,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “Setting a timeline for a phased redeployment of U.S. combat troops represents the best and only chance we have for compelling the Iraqi government to take responsibility for its own security – and getting our troops out of the middle of a bloody, senseless civil war.” The House passed H.R. 1591, the U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans’ Health and Iraq Accountability Act, on a party-line vote of 218 t0 212 earlier today. This $122 billion appropriations bill, also referred to as the Iraq Emergency Supplemental, would provide $100.4 billion for defense spending (mostly for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan), $6.3 billion for international affairs programs, $6.4 billion for hurricane disaster relief, $3.7 billion for agricultural disaster relief, $2.5 billion for homeland security, $1.7 billion for veterans health and other programs, $1.0 billion for pandemic flu preparedness, $750 million for the State Children's Health Insurance Program, $500 million for wildfire response, and $400 million for low-income energy assistance. In addition to providing needed funding for federal government operations for the remainder of the current fiscal year, the bill also sets three alternative timetables for withdrawal from Iraq. It would require the President to certify by July 1, 2007, that Iraq is making progress toward specific security and political benchmarks – and to certify by October 1, 2007, that progress on the political benchmarks has been achieved. Redeployment of U.S. forces would have to be completed within 180 days after either date if the certification is not made. Withdrawal would have to begin, in any event, by March 1, 2008, and be completed by the end of August 2008. U.S. military forces could remain in Iraq after that date only to protect U.S. facilities and personnel, carry on normal diplomatic activities, conduct targeted missions against members of terrorist organizations like al-Qaeda, and train Iraqi security forces. The bill would also establish requirements for unit readiness and time between deployments, and would require either that the President certify the requirements have been met or formally waive them. “I supported this bill because it sets a timetable for bringing our troops home,” Congressman Doyle said in explaining his vote. “That’s a first in the four years that Congress has been arguing over the war. In my opinion, it’s long overdue.” “I have always opposed the war in Iraq,” Congressman Doyle noted. “I voted against the bill authorizing military action against Iraq, and I have been working diligently to bring our troops home as soon as possible.” “While I’d like to bring our troops home sooner, it’s not clear we’ll even be able to secure a majority of votes in Congress for the timeline laid out in the supplemental,” Congressman Doyle added. “The President has promised to veto any bill that sets a schedule for US troop withdrawals from Iraq.” Congress is expected to complete action on the Iraq Emergency Supplemental Appropriations bill some time in April. ###
03.14.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today grilled Federal Communications Commission Chairman Kevin Martin over his decision to terminate a study of deficiencies in the U.S. e911 emergency locator service. Congressman Doyle questioned Chairman Martin about the issue at an FCC oversight hearing held this morning by the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. The rapid rise of wireless phones and Voice-Over-Internet-Protocol (VOIP) technology has created serious problems for 911 dispatchers. 911 dispatchers often cannot determine where wireless and VoIP callers are located – making it difficult to send police, EMTs, or firefighters to help them in a timely fashion. In 2004, the FCC asked Mr. Dale Hatfield, a respected expert in the field, to study the issue and report his findings to the Commission. Mr. Hatfield presented his tentative results to FCC staff on May 10, 2006. A few days later, he was contacted by Chairman Martin’s personal wireless policy advisor and told to halt the study and turn in his hours for payment and premature termination of his contract. “I was surprised that the FCC had terminated an important study like this so abruptly,” Congressman Doyle said today. “This is literally an issue of life and death for thousands of people a year. That’s why I was interested in asking Chairman Martin this morning about his decision to kill the report.” “I was extremely disturbed by Chairman Martin’s testimony this morning” Congressman Doyle said afterwards. “When Chairman Martin said that Mr. Hatfield ‘never presented any of the initial findings to us’ he was at best mistaken, and at worst willfully misrepresenting the truth. Mr. Hatfield presented his tentative findings to FCC staff on May 10, 2006.” “It seems odd to me that the Chairman’s office killed the report right after that – and that the Chairman now claims he never knew what Mr. Hatfield had found,” Congressman Doyle said. “I found Chairman Martin’s testimony this morning unconvincing and disturbing, and I will be very interested in his response to my inquiry.” “The real issue here, however, is whether the FCC has been working to identify and fix the problems in our nation’s e911 system,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Chairman Martin assured the Subcommittee that, despite spiking the Hatfield study, the Commission has been working to fix these problems,” Congressman Doyle stated, adding “This issue is too important to sweep under the carpet. I won’t let this issue go until I’m sure that the deficiencies in our e911 system have been eliminated.” ###
03.09.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)joined a majority of Members of the House of Representatives in adopting legislation today that will provide $14 billion in federal assistance to local communities to improve their wastewater sewer systems. “This legislation could help many of our local communities bring their wastewater infrastructure systems into compliance with federal pollution control laws,” Congressman Doyle said today. “This bill is an important step in improving our nation’s environmental stewardship and in improving public health.” “This bill could help a number of the 53 communities in Allegheny County that face serious financial obstacles in complying with federal environmental laws,”Congressman Doyle added. “I’ve been working with the County and the Three Rivers Wet Weather Demonstration Project since 1997 when the problem first arose to help our local municipalities eliminate the Sanitary Sewer Overflows (SSOs) and Combined Sewer Overflows (CSOs) that violate federal environmental law.” This legislation, H.R. 720, would reauthorize the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and provide $14 billion over the next four years for the fund. The Clean Water State Revolving Fund provides low-interest loans to local communities for construction of wastewater treatment facilities and other water pollution abatement projects. Since 1987, when the Clean Water State Revolving Fund became the major federal source of clean water funding, the Fund has provided states with $53 billion for more than 18,600 low-interest loans to local communities. Improvements in water quality in this country have resulted primarily from a significant investment in wastewater infrastructure since the passage of the 1972 Clean Water Act. As a result of dramatic improvements in wastewater infrastructure, discharges of waste into the environment have decreased by one-half since the early 1970’s. Today, the nation’s farmers, fishermen and manufacturing and tourism industries rely on clean water to carry out activities that contribute well over $300 billion to our economy each year. Nevertheless, many experts are saying that, unless significant investments are made in clean water infrastructure in the next few years, water quality will decline back to the distressing levels of the early 1970s. Much of the clean water infrastructure in this country is rapidly approaching or has already exceeded its projected life. A key reason that the nation now faces a clean water crisis is that so many cities and communities throughout the U.S. are dealing with aging water infrastructure. For example, several U.S. cities still rely on sewer pipes that were installed more than 100 years ago to collect and treat domestic sewage. The authorization for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund expired in 1994, and Congress failed to reauthorize it for the next 12 years. Congress has continued to appropriate funding for the fund each year, but in recent years, Congress has cut funding for the Clean Water Fund by 34 percent. Despite the enormous need, Congress reduced funding for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund from $1.34 billion in FY 2004 to $887 million in FY 2006. Now, the President is proposing a further cut – requesting only $688 million for FY 2008. “I will continue to work to increase federal funding for wastewater infrastructure improvements across the country,” Congressman Doyle promised. “The federal government has an important role to play in helping small communities across the country improve public health and the environment by reducing the amount of untreated sewage they discharge into local waterways.” ###
03.07.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today pointed out how radical changes in the way Americans make and listen to music have overtaken copyright law. Congressman Doyle raised the issue this morning at a hearing on the future of radio that was held by the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet. “I hope that everyone involved will take a step back and ask themselves if mashups and mix tapes are really different, or if it’s the same as Paul McCartney admitting he nicked a Chuck Berry bass riff and used it on the Beatles hit “I Saw Her Standing There,” Congressman Doyle said in a statement at the opening of the hearing. “I want to look at whether webcasters saddled with new royalty fees, a satellite radio monopoly, or low power FM radio stations can help artists break through the clutter and be heard by enough people to be successful,” Congressman Doyle added. Mashups are musical creations that incorporate existing songs, rhythms or riffs. Mashups can be incredibly creative original works of art or social commentary, but under current copyright law, they can also constitute illegal use of someone else’s intellectual property. Mix tapes are collections of songs or audio tracks arranged in a particular order. They aren’t necessarily recorded on cassette tapes; in fact, most mix tapes today are on compact discs or in digital audio files. Mix tapes made by certain individuals are highly valued by many artists and listeners because they expose broad new audiences to little-known artists. Here is the full text of Congressman Doyle’s statement: I want to tell a little story about a local guy done good. His name is Gregg Gillis and by day he’s a biomedical engineer in Pittsburgh. At night, he DJs under the name Girl Talk. His latest mashup record made the top of 2006 lists from Rolling Stone, Pitchfork, and Spin Magazine among others. His schtick, as the Chicago Tribune wrote about him, is “based on the notion that some sampling of copyrighted material, especially when manipulated and re-contextualized into new art, is legit and deserves to be heard.” In one example, he blended Elton John, Notorious B – I – G, and Destiny’s Child all in the span of 30 seconds. While the legal indie music download site eMusic.com took his stuff down for possible copyright violations, he’s now flying all over the world to open concerts and remixing for artists like Beck. The same cannot be said for Atlanta-based hip-hop mix tape king DJ Drama. Mix tapes, actually made on CDs, are sold at Best Buys and local record shops across the country and they’re seen as crucial to make or break new acts in hip-hop. But even though artists on major labels are paying DJ Drama and others to get on their next mix tape, the major record labels are leading raids and sending people like him to jail. I hope that everyone involved will take a step back and ask themselves if mashups and mix tapes are really different, or if it’s the same as Paul McCartney admitting he nicked a Chuck Berry bass riff and used it on the Beatles hit “I Saw Her Standing There.” Maybe it is. And maybe Drama violated some clear bright lines. Or maybe mix tapes are a powerful promotional tool. And maybe mashups are transformative new art that expands the listener’s experience and doesn’t compete with what an artist has made available on iTunes or at a CD store. I don’t think Sir Paul asked permission to borrow that bass line. But every time I listen to that song, I’m a little better off for him having done so. To get these questions about the future of music answered, we first have to look at the future of radio. I want to look at whether webcasters saddled with new royalty fees, one monopoly satellite radio company, or low power FM radio stations can help artists break through the clutter and be heard by enough people to be successful. I want to look at how consumers experience music and how radio shapes that. I look forward to the witnesses talking about these issues and more, and I yield back. Video of the entire hearing, including Congressman Doyle’s statement, can be viewed or downloaded by clickin on this linkThe Digital Future of the United States: Part II– The Future of Radio ###
03.05.2007	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) spoke out today in support of legislation that would increase American voters’ confidence in the accuracy and reliability of our country’s voting machines at a press conference held on the steps of the City-County Building in Pittsburgh. “Over the last 7 years, our nation has experienced a number of close contests, with a handful of votes determining the outcome of several very important elections,” Congressman Doyle observed. “It’s critical that, with such close votes and so much at stake, the American voters have confidence in the accuracy, impartiality, and reliability of our electoral system.” “As we’ve all learned, electronic voting machines – like all human creations – have their flaws and vulnerabilities,” Congressman Doyle added. “It’s important that our electoral process incorporates reliable processes for monitoring elections and verifying their results. It’s now clear that we need voter-verifiable paper records to achieve that goal. It’s also clear that we need to do more to ensure voters with disabilities can vote and verify their votes. H.R. 811, the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act, would achieve those goals, and I am proud to be an original cosponsor of this essential legislation.” H.R. 811, the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act, would make a number of changes in the way our elections are administered – the single most important change being the requirement that the electoral process produce a voter-verified paper ballot for every vote cast. In addition, this legislation would require random audits by hand count in every federal race to ensure that voting results are being correctly counted. This bill would also require that the entire process of voting and ballot verification be accessible to individuals with disabilities, not just that the voting equipment be equipped for them. And, finally the bill would provide $300 million to help states meet these new requirements for paper ballots and accessible ballot verification mechanisms. The Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act currently has 196 cosponsors. Congressman Doyle was joined at the press conference by Allegheny County Councilman John DeFazio, who announced plans to introduce a resolution in Council in support of the Voter Confidence and Increased Accessibility Act. “I think that the prospects for enactment of this bill by the new majority in Congress are good, but the way to ensure we accomplish that goal is to keep up the grassroots pressure across the country,” Congressman Doyle said. “Councilman DeFazio’s resolution is another good tool for achieving that goal, and I want to commend him for introducing this resolution.” ###
02.23.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) sent a letter commenting on the Federal Communications Commission’s media ownership rulemaking to FCC Chairman Kevin Martin yesterday for inclusion in the record of the hearing that the FCC is holding today in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Congressman Doyle urged the FCC to carefully consider the internet’s role when it reviews its media ownership rules. “The web is a valuable, perhaps essential, tool for expanding and enriching public debate in our country,” Congressman Doyle wrote. “It has already greatly enhanced the nation’s discourse on public affairs. But until it is as pervasive as broadcast media and newspapers – and until new websites truly compete with those traditional media outlets (and the web sites they control) – the web’s existence should not be used to justify media consolidation.” The text of the letter follows in its entirety. Dear Chairman Martin: I am sorry that I am not able to join you in Harrisburg today. I ask that you include this letter containing my comments on media ownership as part of the record for this hearing. As vice-chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, I have a strong responsibility for making and overseeing federal policy on issues like media concentration. Moreover, I believe that this issue is of the utmost importance to our democratic system of government and our nation’s future economic well-being. I am concerned that a misstep on this issue could have serious repercussions for both. I commend you for being interested in hearing from thoughtful people outside of the confines of Washington. I believe that the American people have a lot at stake in these hearings, and I appreciate you choosing Pennsylvania’s capital city as the site of the third of six hearings on media ownership. I also want to thank the witnesses from Pennsylvania who have come to today’s hearing in order to comment on the state of our nation’s media and the impact on our nation if greater concentration of media ownership were allowed. I want to focus my comments today on one important piece of the media ownership debate—the rise of the internet as a complement to the local news and information created by newspapers, broadcast television and radio stations, and wire services. Some media companies and associations have asserted that the internet’s potential in this regard is sufficient justification for the Commission to relax its media ownership rules. Then-Chairman Michael Powell made the mistake of acting as if the internet was an independent source of national and local news— a mistake repudiated by the 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals when they remanded the Commission’s rules on this very point. I believe that the internet has the potential to give everyone an equal platform to report about and opine on the goings-on around them. An open and free internet could be considered the first truly accessible tool to make the spirit of First Amendment come alive for everyone in the country. But without an internet available to all that guarantees fast speeds to anyone’s content, that potential is just a promise. The reality of the Internet today for most Americans is not really comparable to its potential. The reality is that the FCC considers 200 kbps as broadband—a speed so inadequate that even video optimized for slower connections like that provided by YouTube requires 500kbps -- 150% faster -- to run in real-time. The reality is that broadband isn’t available -- even at those low speeds – to tens of millions of Americans. The reality is that only small percentages – 11% of respondents in a recent survey – use the internet as a frequent source of local news and information. The reality is that the websites of local TV stations and local newspapers account for about half of the sites these Internet users visit most frequently. The web is a valuable, perhaps essential, tool for expanding and enriching public debate in our country. It has already greatly enhanced the nation’s discourse on public affairs. But until it is as pervasive as broadcast media and newspapers – and until new websites truly compete with those traditional media outlets (and the web sites they control) – the web’s existence should not be used to justify media consolidation. While bloggers and some websites cover local news extremely well, many are centered on opinion, food and theater reviews – or they simply aggregate links to websites of broadcasters or newspapers. The fact that most of these websites generate significant content reacting or responding to content produced by local broadcasters or newspapers underscores the internet’s importance as a complement and a supplement – not a competitor – to traditional media outlets. Proposals to allow increased media concentration raise serious concerns from many Americans who believe that too much media ownership concentration will choke off information and viewpoints that are essential for wise public decisions in the future. I hope that the Commission will thoroughly examine the media landscape today before deciding how to proceed on the issue of media ownership. I want to assure you that I will continue to monitor the Commission’s proceedings on this matter with great interest. Again, I thank the Commission, and its staff, for making the trip to the Keystone State for this hearing on media ownership. ###
02.16.2007	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) sent the following letter to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman Kevin Martin today. Dear Chairman Martin, We write to you regarding the FCC public hearing on media ownership that is scheduled to take place on February 23, 2007 in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. We appreciate the fact that you share our belief that public input is crucial to the review of the FCC’s media ownership rules. However, we are concerned that the public has not been given adequate notice of the hearing on the 23rd. The hearing was announced on February 8th, without a schedule or location, which does not allow enough time for interested people to spread the word about the hearing. With the hearing taking place less than a week from now, the FCC has still not posted the location or details of the event, including the time of public testimony. With Monday being the President’s Day holiday, we believe that you're leaving very little time for the public to hear about and plan to attend the hearing. In addition, we understand the hearing is likely to take place during a weekday rather than a weekend or after 6pm when working people can attend. While no time is perfect for everyone, we believe that those hours will severely limit participation, particularly when those who may want to take time off of work haven't been given all the necessary details in a timely fashion. As this will likely be the only opportunity for Harrisburg residents, and people across Pennsylvania, to speak personally to the FCC and provide input about media ownership, we are greatly concerned that you aren't providing adequate opportunity for public involvement. For future hearings, we ask that you provide the public enough notice, full event details including location and holding a hearing at a time that will allow the largest number of citizens to attend. For the Harrisburg hearing, please quickly issue a public notice of the hearing location and schedule. Sincerely, Rep. Mike Doyle Rep. Tim Holden Rep. Robert Brady Rep. Allyson Schwartz cc: Commissioner Michael J. Copps Commissioner Jonathan S. Adelstein Commissioner Deborah Taylor Tate Commissioner Robert M. McDowell ###
02.15.2007	Madam Speaker, as someone who has opposed this misguided diversion from the War on Terror from the very beginning, I believe it’s way past time for our country to take stock of where we’ve been, where we are, and where we’re going in Iraq. I think it’s important to remember how we got here. President Bush told Congress and the American People: That Saddam had weapons of mass destruction; That Saddam was an imminent threat to the United States; That Saddam had ties to al Qaeda and the 9/11 attackers; That we would be greeted as liberators; That the invasion, occupation, and reconstruction would cost us nothing – and that Iraqi oil revenues would cover all the costs; and That the invasion and reconstruction of Iraq would transform the Middle East into a region composed of peaceful democracies. So where are we today? We know that Saddam had no weapons of mass destruction. We know that Saddam posed no imminent threat to the United States. We know that Saddam had no operational relationship with al Qaeda. 80 percent of the Iraqi people want us to leave their country. The invasion, occupation, and reconstruction of Iraq will cost us at least half a trillion dollars, not to mention the cost in human lives and international goodwill. More than 3,000 American soldiers are dead…between 60,000 and 600,000 Iraqis are dead. More than 20,000 Americans and an unknown number of Iraqis have been wounded. The cost to the Iraqi economy is incalculable but clearly massive. The cost here at home is significant as well. We’re pumping hundreds of billions of dollars into the war. That money could have been used to address the pressing problems we face in this country – problems like affordable health care, inadequate education, and outdated public infrastructure. The burden of the Iraq war is being born exclusively by our children and grandchildren, who will bear the debt – and the families of our military personnel, who at best, experience long separations and terrible worry, and at worst lose a beloved family member forever. The invasion and occupation of Iraq has alienated our Allies and called our credibility into question around the world. It has soured Middle Eastern attitudes about the United States and Western democracy. And, finally, the invasion of Iraq got us into a long-term, bloody occupation of a country with no significant connection to the War on Terror – and diverted critical military and intelligence resources from the fight against al Qaeda. The recently released National Intelligence Estimate concluded that there is little prospect for political reconciliation in Iraq at this time. So what should the United States do now? What does victory in Iraq mean at this point? At this point, most of us would settle for any kind of political settlement in that country that ended the violence. But the American people need to hear the truth, and the truth is, there is no happy ending for Iraq…as long as our presence allows the Maliki government to avoid making the political compromises necessary for peace in Iraq. The President has proposed a significant increase in the number of US troops serving in Iraq. I believe that Congress should oppose this escalation. I don’t believe that it has any real chance of producing a political solution to the war in Iraq – or even of curbing the violence in Baghdad. I’m not alone in this belief…General Colin Powell, General George Casey, General John Abizaid, General Joseph Hoar, General Barry McCaffrey, Major General Don Sheppard and General James Conway oppose this escalation. Many supporters of the President’s Iraq policy ask what those of us who oppose this military escalation would support instead. This Member of Congress believes that the United States should begin an immediate, orderly redeployment of our troops out of Iraq, with the goal of completing that redeployment by the end of the year. We should lead and enlist the participation of all neighboring countries in a massive diplomatic surge to help contain the civil war already underway – and that diplomatic surge should include ALL of the countries in the region, including Iran and Syria. The only way to bring stability to that region is through a regional effort. Our troops have performed with courage, compassion, and professionalism. They did everything that was asked of them. Their work in Iraq is done. We gave the Iraqis their freedom. It’s up to them to decide what they’ll do with it. It’s time for the Iraqis to take responsibility for their own security. It’s time for the Iraqis to decide if Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds wish to share resources, share power and coexist peacefully as one country. America cannot force them to do this no matter how long we stay there….. Only the Iraqi people can decide this. Madame Speaker, it’s time…the American people have known for quite a while it’s time and I believe this week that FINALLY, the United States Congress will take the first step to bringing our troops home by adopting this resolution. ###
01.10.2007	Pittsburgh, PA – “The fate of Iraq is now in the hands of the Iraqi people. The President’s new policy would only increase the dependence of the Iraqis and delay their standing up and fighting for their own country. “This escalation would merely perpetuate their dependence on us and ensure that there will be more American casualties – without getting us any closer to our goals. It would also push our military, which is already severely strained, to the breaking point. “In short, I believe the President’s “new way forward” would be a failure. Instead, as I’ve said many times before, we should implement a phased withdrawal in the coming months to put the Iraqis on notice that it’s time for them to take over the responsibility for their own security.” ###
12.06.2006	A comprehensive bipartisan examination of President Bush’s policies in Iraq is long overdue, but the Iraq Study Group has finally provided one. I am grateful to the Iraq Study Group members for their integrity and commitment to public service. The Iraq Study Group’s report has confirmed what I’ve said from the beginning – namely, that the President’s Iraq policies are undermining, rather than promoting, our homeland security and foreign policy goals. The Iraq Study Group’s report supports the position that I have held for a long time – the redeployment of most of our troops out of Iraq over a relatively short period of time. It’s certainly a step in the right direction. The release of this report provides an important opportunity for changing our failed policies in Iraq, and I hope that the President will take the Iraq Study Group’s report seriously. ###
11.28.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented a check for $42,673 to the City of Duquesne and Duquesne EMS to enable the organization to purchase new protective gear for its staffers. “This new equipment will help keep the City’s EMS workers safe – and allow them to respond more efficiently to emergencies in the communities they serve,”Congressman Doyle said. “This grant is going to allow us to properly equip our crews with the newest personal protective equipment that will replace gear that’s 18 to 20 years old,”said Mr. Mark Nemerovsky, the executive director of Duquesne EMS. “We wouldn’t be able to provide our EMS crews with modern safety equipment without this grant, and I’m very grateful to FEMA and Congressman Doyle for making this grant possible.” The Duquesne Emergency Medical Service department serves 25,000 people living in and around the City of Duquesne. Duquesne EMS is a combination paid/volunteer service operating 24 hours a day. Staffing includes professional paid paramedics and emergency medical technicians (EMTs) supplemented by on-call volunteers. The City of Duquesne EMS department responds to approximately 1800 calls for assistance annually and provides emergency mutual aid to several surrounding communities. This funding, which comes from the federal Assistance to Firefighters Grants program, will be used to purchase turn-out gear for the members, protective coats, pants, helmets, gloves and boots to prevent injuries while the crews work at emergency sites like accidents and fires. “This grant is a real help to the City of Duquesne,” added Phillip Krivacek, the Mayor of Duquesne. “We appreciate Congressman Doyle’s hard work and all of the support that he has provided the City over the years.” “In this day and age, our first responders need the most updated and technologically advanced equipment in order to be prepared to respond to any emergency,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The days are gone when first responders could safeguard their communities with money raised through fish fries and bingo games. That’s why I’ve been a strong and consistent supporter of the Assistance for Firefighters Grant program, which has provided this funding.” The AFG Award program was established by Congress in 2001. Under this program, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office for Domestic Preparedness makes grants directly to local fire departments and EMS services so that they can increase their effectiveness at fighting fires, improve firefighters’ health and safety, and establish or expand fire prevention and safety programs. This year, $547 million is available for this grant program. In 2005, stand-alone EMS services, those separate from their local fire departments, became eligible to apply for the grant. However, less than 1 percent of the grant program’s overall budget is awarded to stand-alone EMS programs, showing how impressive it is that the Duquesne EMS competed successfully for this grant. “Duquesne is the first EMS service in the Mon-Valley to receive this highly competitive grant, and I am confident that it will greatly improve the services provided to the people of the area,” Congressman Doyle observed. “It’s certainly well-deserved. I want to recognize and thank the staff and workers of the Duquesne EMS for their courage and dedication to protecting their friends, neighbors, and fellow citizens.” ###
11.28.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented a check for $150,000 to Duquesne University President Charles Dougherty for a project to help small and medium-sized businesses avoid becoming the victims of computer-related crimes. “This initiative will help our region’s small and medium-sized businesses to avoid losses from cyber-crimes,” Congressman Doyle said today in making the announcement. “I’m pleased to have been able to provide the federal assistance needed to move this important project forward.” Congressman Doyle worked successfully last year to include this funding in the Fiscal Year 2006 Science, Commerce, Justice, State, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, the bill that provided funding for the federal government’s anti-crime initiatives for the current fiscal year. “The University appreciates Congressman Doyle’s support for this initiative with local businesses, and we look forward to continuing this cooperative effort to boost the economy of Southwestern Pennsylvania,” said Dr. Charles J. Dougherty, Duquesne University president. “This will help us to address an important need for businesses of all sizes.” Cyber-crime has exploded with the rise of the Internet and the growth of e-commerce in today’s global marketplace – and cyber-crime will continue to increase dramatically as businesses and consumers make more use of computers and the Internet. Government and businesses have to struggle to keep pace with new tactics and technology developed or adopted by cyber-criminals. The federal government has been actively involved in cyber-security issues for years, but to date, most of the nation’s cyber-security efforts have focused on government assets and large private enterprises. The government has done very little to address the cyber-security concerns of small to medium-sized businesses. Duquesne University’s Chrysler Corporation Small Business Development Center (SBDC) and John F. Donahue Graduate School of Business have developed an initiative to help local small and medium-sized businesses grow and compete successfully in the high-tech economy of the 21st century. This project will study the best cyber-security practices among small and medium-sized businesses across Pennsylvania. After assessing these practices, the project will analyze the existing weaknesses in these practices, develop cost-effective solutions for the threats, and provide the results to small to medium sized businesses through a comprehensive outreach effort including online training. The presentation will be made as part of the Pennsylvania Business Technology Conference that was hosted today at Duquesne University by the Chrysler Corporation Small Business Development Center and John F. Donahue Graduate School of Business. Duquesne University is a private, coeducational university with more than 10,000 students. Duquesne is consistently ranked among the nation's top Catholic universities for its award-winning faculty and 128-year tradition of academic excellence. “Duquesne University is a tremendous asset to our region, providing an outstanding education and giving back to the community,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This cyber-security initiative is just the latest example of how Duquesne University is constantly growing and changing to continue to meet our community’s needs. All of southwestern Pennsylvania will benefit from this initiative.” ###
11.04.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today announced that the Carrie Furnaces site in Rankin and Swissvale had recently been designated a National Historic Landmark by the National Park Service. “This is wonderful news,” Congressman Doyle said today in making the announcement. “This National Historic Landmark designation shows just what a significant part of our nation’s history Pittsburgh’s steel industry has been.” “This announcement of the Carrie Furnaces as a National Historic Landmark is a designation that has taken many years to achieve and is the result of many people’s hard work,” said August R. Carlino, President and CEO of the Steel Industry Heritage Corporation, the non-profit organization that operates the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area. “To attain this designation – this status – as an NHL means that these Carrie Furnaces are supremely significant in not only our industrial history but our great nation’s heritage.” “The Carrie Blast Furnaces represent Pittsburgh when it led the world in iron and steel production,” said Dr. Janet Matthews, Associate Director for Cultural Resources at the National Park Service, who represented the Park Service at today’s event. “This National Historic Landmark designation honors a property that produced the construction materials that built the nation.” Southwestern Pennsylvania was the steel-making capital of the world in the 19th and 20th Centuries. The region’s steel mills made the United States the economic and military superpower it is today. Consequently, the region contains a great number of nationally significant historic and cultural resources. Carrie Furnaces 6 and 7 are rare examples of important early 20th Century industrial technology. Congress established the Rivers of Steel National Heritage Area in 1996 to preserve resources like the Carrie Furnaces. The designation of the National Heritage Area also helped establish a new approach to community and economic development – one that was tied to heritage conservation, historic preservation, and making the region a destination for both new businesses and visitors. Since then, the Rivers of Steel NHA has embarked on an aggressive agenda of heritage development and tourism promotion projects throughout Pittsburgh and southwestern Pennsylvania. Congressman Doyle and the Steel Industry Heritage Corporation have been working to establish a National Historic Site that would include Carrie Furnaces 6 and 7, the Hot Metal Bridge, the Battle of Homestead site, and other historic parts of the Borough of Homestead. Congressman Doyle has introduced legislation in Congress that would do this. “I believe this announcement today will help us move this legislation through Congress in the coming months,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I want to make sure that this nation always remembers how much it owes to the workers who labored in the steel mills of southwestern Pennsylvania.” “This is a major step in the effort to gain National Historic Site designation for this historic industrial site,” added Mr. Carlino. “We appreciate Congressman Doyle’s support and all of the hard work that he has put into this effort over the years.” ###
10.26.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today called for the U.S. Congress to immediately allow the Medicare program to negotiate with drug manufacturers for lower-priced medicine for senior citizens, along with other reforms in the Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit program. “Thousands of senior citizens in Allegheny County are paying more for prescription drugs than they can afford to, despite the modest assistance provided by the new Medicare prescription drug plan,” Congressman Doyle said today. “If Congress would just let Medicare negotiate with the drug companies for lower prices, it could save local seniors hundreds of dollars a year.” Congressman Doyle made this statement following the release of a report by the House Government Reform Committee that indicated that such a change could save local seniors who participate in the Medicare prescription drug program between $579 and $3,560 a year on average over the next ten years. The Report concluded that: Almost 14 million Medicare beneficiaries could save over $60 billion in premiums, co-pays, and other out-of-pocket drug costs. Democrats have proposed allowing the Medicare program to negotiate for lower drug prices, which could reduce prices by 25% or more. There are 8.7 million Medicare beneficiaries nationwide enrolled in Medicare drug plans who pay their own premiums and co-pays, and they could expect average savings of almost $500 annually if Medicare negotiated for 25% lower drug prices. The total savings over the next decade for these beneficiaries would be $61 billion. If beneficiaries enrolled in Medicare HMOs received similar discounts, the total savings over the next decade would be $96 billion. Over six million Medicare beneficiaries could avoid the “donut hole.” Drug benefits under standard Medicare drug plans end once beneficiaries have used $2,250 worth of drugs and do not begin again until they have used over $5,100 worth of drugs. The latest estimates indicate that 6.2 million beneficiaries nationwide will hit the donut hole this year, resulting in average out-of-pocket costs of $1,700 per beneficiary. Democratic reform proposals in Congress would provide enough savings to eliminate or significantly reduce the size of the donut hole. Over 1 million Medicare beneficiaries could avoid hundreds of dollars in penalties. Enrollment in the Medicare drug program has been well below expectations, with over four million Medicare beneficiaries failing to sign up with a Medicare drug plan prior to the May 15, 2006, deadline. An estimated 1.1 million of these beneficiaries are now subject to lifetime penalties that could cost each individual almost $500 to over $1,000 over the next decade. Democratic reform proposals would give these beneficiaries an opportunity to participate in a Medicare drug plan without these unnecessary penalties. “Ever since Congress passed the flawed Medicare prescription drug bill in 2003, I’ve been calling for reforming it so that it provided more benefits for seniors and fewer windfalls for drug manufacturers,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This report confirms what I’ve been saying about the Medicare prescription drug bill all along – it shortchanges seniors and taxpayers and ought to be fixed right away.” The full report can be accessed on-line at: https://www.democrats.reform.house.gov/Documents/20061026134104-47719.pdf ###
10.17.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today called on the U.S. International Trade Commission to continue existing antidumping and countervailing duty orders against corrosion-resistant steel imports from Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and Korea. “Thousands of American jobs are at stake,” Congressman Doyle said. “If these orders are revoked, the long-term future of our steel industry will be at risk – and that would hurt our local and national economies. That’s why I urged the ITC this morning to maintain these antidumping and countervailing duties orders for another 5 years.” “The US steel industry today isn’t the uncompetitive low-tech industry it was back in the 1970s,” Congressman Doyle added. “It’s an advanced high-tech industry that can compete in terms of price and performance with any producer around the world. But no industry can hope to compete against unfair trade subsidized by a foreign government, and U.S. producers must deal with unfairly-traded imports from some of the largest and most aggressive steel producers in the world.” “The governments of Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and Korea have a long history of illegally subsidizing their steel industries’ exports to the United States so that they can undersell US steel and put our steel industry out of business,” Congressman Doyle observed. “They’ve also used trade laws to keep US steel out of their own domestic markets. U.S. policy on this issue has been clear. Our market is open to free trade – so long as it is fair trade. Consequently, the ITC put antidumping and countervailing duty orders in place five years ago after concluding that Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and Korea had been dumping corrosion-resistant steel in the United States at below-market prices.” Corrosion-resistant steel is used in the production of automobiles, as well as other high-end applications like construction and the manufacture of appliances. As worldwide production of lower-quality steel products has surged, steelmakers in the United States have focused more and more on technologically advanced products like corrosion-resistant steel. The ITC is required by U.S. trade law to review antidumping and countervailing duty orders regularly to determine whether their revocation would harm U.S. industry. If the ITC finds that revocation of an antidumping or countervailing order would do that, it will keep the order in place for another five years. If the ITC concludes that an order is no longer justified, however, it will revoke it. “I am very concerned that revocation of these antidumping and countervailing duty orders would devastate our domestic steel industry,” Congressman Doyle stated. “I will continue to work to protect this important part of our economy and the jobs it provides.” ###
09.12.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – The U.S. House of Representatives today passed Congressman Doyle’s legislation (H.Res. 983) honoring the life and accomplishments of former Pittsburgh Mayor Bob O’Connor, who passed away September 1. “Bob O’Connor was not just another elected official,” Congressman Doyle (PA-14) said today. “He was a man of great warmth, generosity, vision, and integrity. He was a successful businessman and a widely respected public servant with a distinguished record of service and the potential for even greater accomplishments. His untimely death at the age of 61, so soon after beginning his first term as Mayor, has deeply saddened the residents of Pittsburgh as well as his family and friends. I am proud to claim him as a good friend of mine, and I will miss him deeply.” “I introduced this resolution with my colleague from Upper St. Clair, Congressman Tim Murphy, to honor Bob O’Connor’s life, mourn his loss, and extend the House of Representative’s condolences to his family, friends, and constituents,” Congressman Doyle explained. “We felt that it was fitting that the nation officially recognize his passing in this manner.” Congressman Doyle introduced this legislation last Wednesday, the first day after Mayor O’Connor’s death that the House of Representatives was in session. The bill had bipartisan support from Pennsylvania’s Congressional delegation, and Congressman Tim Murphy (PA-18) graciously agreed to be the bill’s lead Republican sponsor. With the support of House Majority Leader John Boehner, House Government Reform Committee Chairman Tom Davis, and House Government Reform Committee Ranking Member Henry Waxman, standard House procedures were expedited so that H.Res. 983 could be brought to the House Floor this week. “Bob O’Connor was not your typical public servant,” Congressman Doyle said in his remarks this afternoon on the House Floor. “He was an intelligent, outgoing, charismatic man – widely respected for his ability to bring people together and for his commitment to the City of Pittsburgh. Everyone knew him, and I daresay everybody loved him. Our community was excited and enthusiastic about the good things that he and his administration were going to do for the City. That’s why his death has been such a blow to the citizens of Pittsburgh.” After a number of speeches honoring Mayor O’Connor, the House passed the resolution by voice vote. Bob O’Connor’s wife and children, along with other relatives and family friends, watched consideration and passage of the bill from the House Gallery. The text of the resolution follows in full: Whereas Robert E. O’Connor, Jr., was a life-long resident of the City of Pittsburgh. Whereas Mr. O’Connor was a dedicated husband and father, who was married to Judy Levine for more than 40 years and who raised three children. Whereas Mr. O’Connor was a successful entrepreneur and businessman for more than two decades; Whereas Mr. O’Connor was actively involved in his church and community service, serving on the Board of Directors of Carnegie-Mellon University, Gateway Rehabilitation Institute, the Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Alliance, The Caring Foundation, and Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall. Whereas Mr. O’Connor loved the City and his community so much that he left the private sector in 1992 to serve on the Pittsburgh City Council, where he served his community effectively until 2003; Whereas Mr. O’Connor served two terms as Pittsburgh City Council President; Whereas Mr. O’Connor served the City of Pittsburgh and all of southwestern Pennsylvania in a high-ranking position in the government of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for a year; Whereas Mr. O’Connor was elected the 58th Mayor of Pittsburgh in 2005. Whereas Mr. O’Connor, as the Mayor of Pittsburgh, inspired the citizens of the City of Pittsburgh with his bold, clear vision for a revitalized, vibrant community; Whereas Mr. O’Connor, after being sworn in as Mayor in January of 2006, began moving forward energetically with plans to make that vision a reality; Whereas Mr. O’Connor, only seven months into his first term in office, was diagnosed with primary central nervous system lymphoma; Whereas Mr. O’Connor, after a valiant struggle to fight this aggressive form of cancer, passed away on September 1, 2006; Whereas Mr. O’Connor was widely respected and loved for his warmth, friendliness, intelligence, integrity, and his dedication to the City of Pittsburgh; Whereas Mr. O’Connor is remembered for his common sense, his many accomplishments, his long record of public service, and his dedication to the City of Pittsburgh; Whereas, the citizens of the City of Pittsburgh have suffered a grievous loss in the untimely early death of this popular and talented leader; and Whereas the example set by Mr. O’Connor in both his public and private life was exemplary: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) has learned with profound sorrow of the death of Bob O’Connor; (2) recognizes Bob O’Connor as a role model of entrepreneurship, civic engagement, and public service in southwestern Pennsylvania and throughout the entire Nation; (3) expresses its deep gratitude to Bob O’Connor for working tirelessly on behalf of the citizens of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; (4) extends condolences to his wife, Judy, his children, Heidy, Terrence, and Corey, his extended family, and his many friends; and (5) extends condolences to the residents of the City of Pittsburgh. ###
09.07.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)introduced legislation yesterday to honor the life and accomplishments of former Pittsburgh Mayor Bob O’Connor, who passed away last week. “Bob O’Connor’s tragic and untimely death has deeply saddened all of us, not just his family and friends,” Congressman Doyle said today. “I felt that it was only appropriate that Congress recognize his many achievements, mourn his loss, and extend its condolences to his family, friends, and constituents.” Congressman Doyle introduced this legislation, H.Res. 983, yesterday, the first day after Mayor O’Connor’s death that the House of Representatives was in session. The bill has bipartisan support from Pennsylvania’s Congressional delegation. Representatives Murphy, Brady, English, Gerlach, Hart, Holden, Murtha, Peterson, Platts, Schwartz, Sherwood, and Shuster all agreed to cosponsor the bill before it was even introduced, and it is very likely that most, if not all of the Members of the Pennsylvania Congressional delegation will cosponsor the bill. Congressman Murphy graciously agreed to be the bill’s lead Republican sponsor. In accordance with standard House procedures, H.Res. 983 has been referred to the House Committee on Government Reform for review. The House Leadership has control over if and when certain legislation is brought to the House Floor for consideration. “I spoke with House Majority Leader Boehner yesterday and asked him to bring this bill to the Floor for a vote next week,” Congressman Doyle said. “Mr. Boehner’s response was very positive, and I am optimistic that the House will act promptly on this resolution honoring Mayor O’Connor.” The text of the resolution follows in full: Whereas Robert E. O’Connor, Jr., was a life-long resident of the City of Pittsburgh. Whereas Mr. O’Connor was a dedicated husband and father, who was married to Judy Levine for more than 40 years and who raised three children. Whereas Mr. O’Connor was a successful entrepreneur and businessman for more than two decades; Whereas Mr. O’Connor was actively involved in his church and community service, serving on the Board of Directors of Carnegie-Mellon University, Gateway Rehabilitation Institute, the Sudden Infant Death Syndrome Alliance, The Caring Foundation, and Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall. Whereas Mr. O’Connor loved the City and his community so much that he left the private sector in 1992 to serve on the Pittsburgh City Council, where he served his community effectively until 2003; Whereas Mr. O’Connor served two terms as Pittsburgh City Council President; Whereas Mr. O’Connor served the City of Pittsburgh and all of southwestern Pennsylvania in a high-ranking position in the government of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for a year; Whereas Mr. O’Connor was elected the 58th Mayor of Pittsburgh in 2005. Whereas Mr. O’Connor, as the Mayor of Pittsburgh, inspired the citizens of the City of Pittsburgh with his bold, clear vision for a revitalized, vibrant community; Whereas Mr. O’Connor, after being sworn in as Mayor in January of 2006, began moving forward energetically with plans to make that vision a reality; Whereas Mr. O’Connor, only seven months into his first term in office, was diagnosed with primary central nervous system lymphoma; Whereas Mr. O’Connor, after a valiant struggle to fight this aggressive form of cancer, passed away on September 1, 2006; Whereas Mr. O’Connor was widely respected and loved for his warmth, friendliness, intelligence, integrity, and his dedication to the City of Pittsburgh; Whereas Mr. O’Connor is remembered for his common sense, his many accomplishments, his long record of public service, and his dedication to the City of Pittsburgh; Whereas, the citizens of the City of Pittsburgh have suffered a grievous loss in the untimely early death of this popular and talented leader; and Whereas the example set by Mr. O’Connor in both his public and private life was exemplary: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives-- (1) has learned with profound sorrow of the death of Bob O’Connor; (2) recognizes Bob O’Connor as a role model of entrepreneurship, civic engagement, and public service in southwestern Pennsylvania and throughout the entire Nation; (3) expresses its deep gratitude to Bob O’Connor for working tirelessly on behalf of the citizens of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; (4) extends condolences to his wife, Judy, his children, Heidy, Terrence, and Corey, his extended family, and his many friends; and (5) extends condolences to the residents of the City of Pittsburgh. ###
09.02.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today issued the following statement: “The City of Pittsburgh is heartbroken. Bob O'Connor was the heart and soul of Pittsburgh and we have lost a great leader and a good friend. As someone who is privileged to represent the people of Pittsburgh as Bob was, we both shared a common vision for our City. You could sense the positive momentum developing all around the City as a result of Bob's "can-do" attitude. His infectious personality had all Pittsburghers feeling good about their City again. Bob was a great mayor and a good friend and ally. It was a privilege to serve the people of Pittsburgh with him.”
08.07.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)called today for Congress to change course and move the nation in a dramatic new direction. “For the last ten years, Congress has put special interests ahead of the public interest,” Congressman Doyle said today. “As a result, the American people have suffered.” “Energy prices, health care costs, and college expenses have skyrocketed over the last five years, for example, while median family income has actually declined,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Meanwhile, we’re much less secure from terrorism and rogue states than we should be. “Clearly the policies pursued by the President and his partisan supporters in Congress aren’t helping most Americans,” Congressman Doyle said. “It’s way past time for Congress to put the common good of all Americans first.” “Democrats in Congress have developed an agenda to do just that,”Congressman Doyle said. “We call it ‘A New Direction for America.’ We believe it addresses the real challenges facing our nation – the problems most Americans care about.”The Congressional Democrats’ “New Direction for America” agenda would: Make Health Care More Affordable: Fix the prescription drug program by putting people ahead of drug companies and HMO’s, eliminating wasteful subsidies, negotiating lower drug prices and ensuring the program works for all seniors; invest in stem cell and other medical research. Lower Gas Prices and Achieve Energy Independence: Crack down on price gouging; eliminate billions in subsidies for oil and gas companies and use the savings to provide consumer relief and develop American alternatives, including biofuels; promote energy efficient technology. Help Working Families: Raise the minimum wage; repeal tax giveaways that encourage companies to move jobs overseas. Cut College Costs: Make college tuition deductible from taxes, expand Pell grants, and slash student loan costs. Ensure Dignified Retirement: Prevent the privatization of Social Security; expand savings incentives; and ensure pension fairness. Require Fiscal Responsibility: Restore the budget discipline of the 1990s that helped eliminate deficits and spur record economic growth. Provide Real Security: Rebuild our military; equip and train our first responders and others on the front lines here at home; provide needed benefits to our troops and veterans; fully man and equip our National Guard; promote alternative fuels and reduce dependence on foreign oil; and, improve our government's ability to respond to a terrorist attack or natural disaster. To read more about the Congressional Democrats’ New Direction for America click here: https://www.democraticleader.house.gov/pdf/NewDirection.pdf andhttps://www.democrats.gov/BK.html. ###
08.03.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)called today for Congressional review of the process that the U.S. Department of Homeland Security uses to screen people who work in federal buildings. “It seems to me that Homeland Security should use more common sense and treat Americans with more consideration,” Congressman Doyle said today in releasing these letters. “Instead, it appears that DHS has taken the dictum ‘shoot first and ask questions later’ a little too much to heart.” Two of Congressman Doyle’s constituents, Judith Miller and Mary Broughton, after having both worked for decades in the William S. Moorhead Federal Building cafeteria, were deemed “unsuitable for employment in a federal building” by the Department of Homeland Security several weeks ago. Congressman Doyle and his staff worked successfully with these women to file an appeal with the Department of Homeland Security and have their “unsuitable” determinations promptly overturned. “After seeing what Judy Miller and Mary Broughton went through, I want to make sure that the DHS security screening process works better in the future,”Congressman Doyle observed. “That’s why I’ve written to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee with jurisdiction over the Department of Homeland Security and asked that they review the way these background checks are conducted.” “These ladies clearly posed no threat to security at the federal building, and a single phone could have cleared up the questions arising from their background checks,” Congressman Doyle said. “But what happened? They were told they couldn’t work there anymore and escorted out of the building. In the blink of an eye, they lost their livelihoods – and only after my office intervened did they get their jobs back.” “These ladies lost two weeks’ pay before they were reinstated,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Needless to say, Homeland Security didn’t compensate them for their economic loss or the embarrassment and frustration they suffered as a result of this incident. I want to make sure that the Department of Homeland Security treats decent, hardworking Americans more fairly in the future.” The full text of these letters follows: I wanted to make you aware of the recent experiences that two of my constituents have had with the Department of Homeland Security -- and ask you to make sure that decent, hardworking Americans are being fairly treated by DHS when it conducts security background checks on them. Judith Miller and Mary Broughton have each worked in the cafeteria of the William S. Moorhead federal building in downtown Pittsburgh for decades. They are excellent employees and are clearly no threat to national security. Nevertheless, on July 5, they were informed that the Federal Protective Service had deemed them "unsuitable" to work in a federal building. They were escorted from the building and told they could no longer work in the cafeteria. They were given a letter informing them that they could appeal the decision and that if they wanted to do so, they could call a phone number at the FPS. Over the next several days, these women called that number several times and left messages, but no one returned their calls. We subsequently learned that the person at that phone number was on vacation. These women, like many other Americans who might find themselves in similar situations, live paycheck to paycheck, and having to wait several days to begin the appeals process caused them serious financial loss. After several days, when they didn't receive any response from DHS, they contacted my office and asked for help in filing their appeals. My staff contacted the DHS congressional liaison office for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and received a very brusque response. The Congressional liaison staffer handling the case seemed offended that a Member of Congress would have the effrontery to act as an ombudsman for one of his constituents. He refused to provide my staff with any information about the appeals process, and only told my staff repeatedly that the women would have to file an appeal. Not satisfied with this response, and with no one yet answering the phone at the number the women had been given, I personally called the DHS Congressional liaison for ICE. I received a much more positive and helpful response from DHS than my staff did. DHS staff offered to look into the case and monitor the progress of the appeals process. From this point on, my staff's treatment by DHS personnel improved markedly, and the women's appeal was processed and satisfactorily resolved within a week. My constituents have had their "unsuitable" determination overturned, and they have returned to work. Their employer has decided to pay them their back wages. They are being made whole -- not counting, of course, the distress that this episode caused them over the last two and half weeks. The attached articles provide additional information about this case. I am deeply concerned, however, that many other decent, hard-working Americans may find themselves in a similar situation, not think to ask for Congressional assistance, and end up losing their jobs. I was dismayed by my constituents' treatment in this affair -- especially since a single phone call to each woman could have cleared up the concerns that FPS had about their backgrounds. This experience has left me with the strong impression that FPS should revise its procedures for conducting background checks on people who work on federal property. I would greatly appreciate it if the Homeland Security Committee would review this process, determine whether problems like those experienced by my constituents are widespread, and take appropriate measures to make this process less of an ordeal for the millions of Americans who may go through it in the future. While these background checks and the appeals process may seem routine and unexceptional to the people at FPS who conduct them, they often appear quite mysterious and intimidating to people who don't spend their lives dealing with secretive bureaucracies. Moreover, the consequences of an adverse determination can be devastating. I don't think that a Member of Congress should have to intervene in order for DHS to treat American citizens fairly. At the very least, I would think that DHS would give Americans the courtesy of a phone call before it denies them their livelihoods. In addition, since many of these people can ill afford to miss even one week's pay, it seems to me that FPS appeal information lines should always be staffed during the regular work week. FPS might also consider providing all of the information and forms necessary to file an appeal with each letter identifying someone as unsuitable for employment on federal property. In addition, given that the financial impact that even a week out of work would have on many workers, Congress might want to look at how long it is taking FPS to process such appeals. Finally, it appears that FPS might want to encourage its employees to treat other Americans with a little courtesy and respect. A thoughtful review of this process would probably suggest other reforms that are called for as well. In closing, I want to reiterate my strong concern that the FPS background check system as it is currently operating may be causing an unacceptable level of "collateral damage." On behalf of my constituents and an unknown number of Americans who have seen their lives disrupted and damaged by an arbitrary and unresponsive government agency, I urge you to carefully review this matter. Thank you for your consideration of this request. ###
07.10.2006	Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania – U.S. Representatives Mike Doyle (PA-14) and Phil English (PA-3) called for passage of H.R. 5229, the Pet Safety and Protection Act, in a press conference today at the Western Pennsylvania Humane Society facility in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. “Class B dealers across this country violate the provisions of the Animal Welfare Act every day and cause needless suffering for thousands of dogs and cats – many of whom were once beloved family pets,” Congressman Doyle said today. “Class B dealers starve, beat, and kill these animals – and they deserve to be shut down.” “In the shadowy world of Class B dog and cat dealers, an animal’s life can be harsh and unrelenting. Animals may suffer from crowded and unsanitary conditions, extreme temperatures, poor food, and insufficient water,”Congressman English observed. “For these reasons, I have worked with Congressman Doyle, the Animal Welfare Institute, and the Humane Society of the United States to introduce legislation that will help put an end to these obscene abuses once and for all.” The Pet Safety and Protection Act would prohibit the use of dogs and cats procured from Class B animal dealers for research. Its goal is to prevent family pets whose owners may be attempting to locate them from being sold for laboratory experiments and research. Currently, there are two types of animal dealers licensed by the USDA – Class A or “purpose-bred” dealers and Class B or “random source” dealers. Class A dealers are highly regulated businesses that raise their own animals. Class B dealers, in contrast, routinely buy dogs and cats from a vast network of suppliers with murky backgrounds. Many of these suppliers obtain dogs and cats they sell to Class B dealers by stealing them – or by responding to “free to good home” advertisements and posing as concerned pet owners willing to provide a good home to a family pet. Class B dealers pay suppliers for each animal, creating enough of a financial incentive that a number of individuals steal pet dogs and cats from owners’ properties and falsify records to keep their true origins unknown. In addition, some Class B dealers have unofficial relationships with pounds, shelters, or “humane societies” to buy surplus animals. Although the law requires any stray animal to be held for at least 5 days at such facilities, it does not prevent pets from being kept out of sight, or transported to an out-of-state location for this time period, making it impossible for concerned pet owners to locate a beloved pet. There are currently 15 Class B dealers that are licensed to sell dogs and cats for experimentation. Four of them are currently under investigation. The USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service is charged with the enormous task of inspecting Class B dealers, but doesn’t have nearly enough staff to oversee the individuals who supply them. The HBO documentary “Dealing Dogs” recently illustrated the illegal and inhumane trade in stray animals and family pets, as well as the neglect and outright cruelty with which some Class B dealers treat these animals. This film contains disturbing video footage collected by an undercover investigator from Last Chance for Animals who worked in several Class B dealers’ facilities. Among the abuses documented in this film are overcrowded cages, rotten food, food contaminated with feces, frozen drinking water, dogs with serious untreated injuries and diseases, and live dogs caged with the carcasses of dead dogs. In addition, this investigation documented the beating, strangulation, and shooting of dogs by Class B dealers. "Pets are part of our families, not tools to be stolen or obtained deceptively for research experiments," said Michael Markarian, executive vice president of The Humane Society of the United States. "Two-thirds of American households have pets, and thanks to the leadership of Rep. Doyle and Rep. English, we hope those families can have the peace of mind that their pets will be safe from cruel scams." “Brutal treatment of animals, fraudulent record-keeping, illegal acquisition of animals and exploitation of loopholes within existing law are the modus operandi of random source dog and cat dealers. This legislation should be embraced by all, as it will protect beloved companion animals from experimentation, demonstrate integrity on behalf of the research industry and save taxpayer dollars,” added Cathy Liss, President of the Animal Welfare Institute. “We applaud the leadership of Congressman Doyle and Congressman English in seeking to close a loophole in the current law that permits millions of dollars to be made through the illegal supply of dogs and cats for experimental purposes.” “Congressmen English and I are deeply committed to enacting this important legislation,” Congressman Doyle said. “We’re confident that once America’s pet owners know about this disturbing situation, they’ll support it, too.” “It is my hope that this bill continues to attract bipartisan support and win quick adoption in the Congress,” Congressman English added. “The Pet Safety and Protection Act is a simple approach with a solid solution that will help protect the welfare of our family pets.” More information about the documentary “Dealing Dogs” can be found athttps://www.hbo.com/docs/programs/dealingdogs/index.html. More information about H.R. 5229, the Pet Safety and Protection Act, can be found athttps://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:HR05229:@@@L&summ2=m&. Information about the Western Pennsylvania Humane Society can be found athttps://www.wpahumane.com/. Information about the Humane Society of the United States can be found athttps://www.hsus.org Information about the Animal Welfare Institute can be found at https://www.awionline.org/. Information about Last Chance for Animals can be found at https://www.lcanimal.org/ ###
06.16.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today called for the passage of H.R. 5229, the Pet Safety and Protection Act when he spoke at a packed Congressional screening of the HBO documentary “Dealing Dogs” this morning. “It’s hard to believe that someone would steal people’s pets and treat them this way,” Congressman Doyle said today in introducing the documentary. “But seeing is believing – if you can stand to watch this disturbing and compelling film.” “This film is a clarion call to action,’” Congressman Doyle observed, “and I urge everyone to see it and ask their Representative to cosponsor the Pet Safety and Protection Act.” The Pet Safety and Protection Act is a bill that Congressman Doyle has introduced with Congressman Phil English (PA-3) to prohibit Class B animal dealers from selling dogs and cats to laboratories. Its goal is to prevent family pets whose owners may be attempting to locate them from being sold for laboratory experiments and research. Currently, there are two types of animal dealers licensed by the USDA – Class A or “purpose-bred” dealers and Class B or “random source” dealers. Class A dealers are highly regulated businesses that breed and raise their own animals. Class B dealers routinely buy dogs and cats with murky backgrounds from a vast network of suppliers. Many of these suppliers obtain dogs and cats they sell to Class B dealers by stealing them or responding to “free to good home” advertisements by posing as concerned pet owners willing to provide a good home to a family pet. Class B dealers pay suppliers for each animal, creating a financial incentive for individuals to steal pet dogs and cats from owners’ property and falsify records to keep their true origins unknown. Additionally, nothing prevents Class B dealers from having unofficial relationships with pounds, shelters, or “humane societies” to buy surplus animals. Although the law requires any stray animal to be held for at least 5 days at such facilities, it does not prevent pets from being kept out of sight, or transported to an out-of-state location for this time period, making it impossible for concerned pet owners to locate a beloved pet. There are currently 10 Class B dealers that are licensed to sell dogs and cats for experimentation. Four of them are currently under investigation. The USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service is charged with the enormous task of inspecting Class B dealers, but are outnumbered when it comes to inspecting the individuals who supply them. “Dealing Dogs” documents the illegal and inhumane trade in stray animals and family pets, as well as the neglect and outright cruelty with which some Class B dealers treat these animals. This HBO documentary was made possible by a man known to the public only as “Pete,” who went undercover to work for several of these Class B dealers and investigate their operations. Pete attended made his first public appearance this morning at the Congressional screening of “Dealing Dogs,” and he met with Congressman Doyle yesterday to discuss the issue and express his gratitude to Congressman Doyle for championing the Pet Safety and Protection Act. “Pete is a very brave young man who undertook literally risked his life to bring this story to light,” Congressman Doyle observed. “I don’t know how he could stand seeing some of the things that he saw. As someone who loves animals, I want to thank and commend Pete for all that he’s done. I think that there’s no more fitting recognition of his work and sacrifice than to put these guys out of business.” “It’s important to note that this legislation will not prevent Class A dealers, research facilities that breed animals for research, registered public pounds who receive animals turned in by their legitimate owners, or individuals seeking to donate their own animals from supplying research facilities with animals,”Congressman Doyle added. In short, this bill won’t stop much-needed biomedical research – it just prevents somebody’s beloved pet from being illegally used for that research. The best way to plug the loopholes in the system is to eliminate Class B dealers completely.” More information about the documentary “Dealing Dogs” can be found athttps://www.hbo.com/docs/programs/dealingdogs/index.html. More information about H.R. 5229, the Pet Safety and Protection Act, can be found athttps://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d109:HR05229:@@@L&summ2=m&. ###
06.16.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)condemned the Republican House Leadership today for its conduct of the debate over Iraq policy in the House of Representatives. “The American people deserve a serious debate over our country’s policy in Iraq,” Congressman Doyle said today. “What they’ve gotten is an election year stunt driven by the Republican Party’s political considerations. This resolution is a sham, a straw man that fails to address the real issues that need to be debated in Congress.” “The United States isn’t faced with a choice between ‘staying the course’ and ‘cutting and running,’” Congressman Doyle observed. “Few if any Members of Congress are arguing that we should just pull out of Iraq. But many of us are arguing that our current policies aren’t working and that we need to adopt a different strategy for success in Iraq.” H.Res. 861, the legislation that was the nominal subject of the House debate over our policy in Iraq, contained a number of statements and resolutions – most of which were completely non-controversial. The controversial provision on which the debate on the House Floor focused declared that “it is not in the national security interest of the United States to set an arbitrary date for the withdrawal or redeployment of United States Armed Forces from Iraq.” “The House debate was a gross caricature of the choice facing the United States in Iraq,” Congressman Doyle observed. “We spent far too much time arguing over a non-existent option – immediate withdrawal – and not enough time on debating what we should be doing – handing over control of the country to the new government and redeploying the majority of our forces out of Iraq over the next year.” “We don’t need to stay the course,” Congressman Doyle said. “We need a new direction in Iraq and here at home. There’s nothing arbitrary about the proposed redeployment. Our allies in the new, democratically elected government of Iraq have asked us for a timetable for U.S. withdrawal. I think we should honor their request.” The House approved H.Res. 861 on a vote of 256 to 153. No further action is expected on the bill, as it has no binding effect. ###
06.08.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today voted against a major telecommunications reform bill after the House failed to adopt an amendment that would have kept control over telecom franchises at the local level. “The United States has lost its lead in broadband access, and that is hurting our economy’s international competitiveness,” Congressman Doyle said. “Consumers and businesses would benefit significantly from increased access to inexpensive broadband connections, but as Congress acts to increase broadband Internet access, it needs to preserve local governments’ ability to protect their constituents.” H.R. 5252, the Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Enhancement (COPE) Act, was approved by the full House late in the evening of June 8. This legislation, if enacted into law, would streamline the cable franchising process in order to make it easier for phone companies and other providers of video, voice, and data services to compete with local cable monopolies in offering broadband Internet services. The bill’s authors argue that this change will increase competition between broadband providers in many parts of the country – and that the resulting competition will improve access to broadband service and lower the price. Broadband Internet service provides much faster data transfer than the dial-up modems that many consumers and small businesses use today. This greater speed or bandwidth makes it possible to quickly download massive files like music and video files. Industry experts believe, for example, that as greater bandwidth becomes widely available, “video on demand” services will grow dramatically. “I believe that Congress needs to adopt policies to promote expanded, affordable broadband access,” Congressman Doyle added. “But the COPE Act in its current form has a very big flaw that must be fixed before it’s signed into law.” H.R. 5252, as currently drafted, would allow local municipal governments to negotiate local franchises – but it would establish an alternative national franchise system that would destroy much of the local governments’ bargaining power. Moreover, while this bill would continue to allow local governments to regulate local broadband providers, it would strip local governments of their power to resolve disputes over that regulation and invest that authority in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). “The FCC does some things well,” Congressman Doyle observed. “But if there’s a problem, since when does the FCC care about Pittsburgh Community Television -- 21? How fast will it react and respond if any of the 3 institutional networks that serve Pittsburgh’s police, schools and libraries go down? Why should the FCC become the final arbiter over America’s streets? Why is Congress telling America’s local governments that they’ve got to hire a Washington attorney to defend their roads?” Congressman Doyle and Congressman John Dingell drafted an amendment that would have allowed local governments to handle these local problems first. It tapped into the infrastructure local governments already have in place to handle cable complaints and disputes. Only in certain cases would the FCC get involved. This amendment would have saved taxpayers a great deal of money as well as keeping the primary control over these issues local. The Doyle-Dingell amendment was supported by the National League of Cities, the U.S. Conference of Mayors, the National Association of Counties, AARP, the Consumers Union, and the National Organization of Telecommunications Officers and Advisors. Unfortunately, the House Republican Leadership refused to allow the consideration of the Doyle-Dingell amendment, along with a number of other legitimate amendments. “The COPE Act rips any dispute about those rights of way out of the hands of locals and detours them hundreds or thousands of miles away to the bureaucrats in Washington at the FCC,” Congressman Doyle observed on the House Floor during consideration of the unamended COPE Act. “That is a massive change that has profound implications for America’s cities and towns. It’s bad policy to make the Federal Communications Commission the final arbiter of how your hometown protects the road you live on.” “There were several other reasons I opposed the bill as well,” Congressman Doyle added. “I strongly support an open Internet that promotes democratic discussion, improved education and a growing economy. The Internet exploded in growth because Internet Service Providers were required to treat content and media over the Internet in a non-discriminatory manner. Such ‘net neutrality’ – the principle that all users can access the content or run the applications and devices of their choice over the Internet – is critical to the future growth of the Internet. Unfortunately, the House voted down an amendment to ensure that network neutrality was protected in law during consideration of the COPE Act. I voted for that amendment, also known as the Markey Amendment, because the Internet is too critical to our nation's political debate, educational system, and our economy not to keep net neutrality principles enforced in law. Without that amendment, the COPE Act lacks adequate protections for net neutrality.” “Finally, I opposed the COPE Act because it would give new providers special permission to compete only in the neighborhoods the Internet Service Provider chooses,” Congressman Doyle said. “While the bill contains ‘anti-discrimination’ provisions, the bill still explicitly allows Internet providers to discriminate by block, neighborhood, or town and never offer service to some residents. Without ensuring that Internet providers provide service across the community, I fear that competition will only exist in wealthier neighborhoods, leading to a larger digital divide than ever before.” “As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee's Subcommittee on Telecommunications and the Internet, I have been engaged in these issues for some time and have worked extensively with my colleagues to ensure the Internet remains as free and open as it is today. During Committee consideration of this bill, I consistently supported amendments that would have defended network neutrality and ensured that everyone in a community would have access to competition.” This legislation must now be considered by the Senate. “I will continue to work to protect America’s consumers as Congressional consideration of this flawed legislation proceeds,” Congressman Doyle promised after the House passed H.R. 5252. ###
05.18.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against the federal Fiscal Year 2007 budget resolution that was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives on a party-line vote early this morning. “Under President Bush’s leadership, the Republican-controlled Congress has squandered a $5.6 trillion budget surplus, added $3 trillion in debt, and endangered our nation’s economic future,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote. “This budget continues the Republicans’ record of abysmal fiscal stewardship by making the deficit worse and leaving a crippling legacy of debt to our children.” “Moreover, the House Republicans’ budget would stick it to lower- and middle-class households in order to pay for more tax cuts for millionaires,” he added, “and they don’t even have the guts to ‘fess up to it. They’ve used world-class accounting gimmicks to hide the extent of their duplicity.” The House-passed budget resolution, H.Con.Res. 376, would authorized $2.7 trillion in federal spending in Fiscal Year 2007. It anticipates $2.4 trillion in government receipts that year, which would result in a deficit of $348 billion. The actual deficit will most likely be significantly larger because the budget includes only $50 billion for the ongoing military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan – less than half the amount appropriated for fiscal year 2006. This budget resolution calls for $228 billion in new tax cuts over the next five years and $1.5 trillion over the next ten years. Remarkably, while providing such a massive volume of tax cuts, much of which would go to households with income of more than $200,000 a year, the House-passed budget fails to protect millions of middle class families over the same period of time from the Alternative Minimum Tax, which in the next few years is expected to substantially increase the tax burden on working families – some with incomes as low as $50,000. “I find it hard to believe that at a time when we’re engaged in two wars overseas that have so far cost over $300 billion, this administration continues to propose tax cuts for the most affluent – and the Republican-controlled Congress rubber-stamps them,” Congressman Doyle stated in explaining his opposition to the bill. “I also find it hard to believe that the Republicans place a higher priority on tax cuts for millionaires than on essential safety net programs for poor children and the elderly. On second thought, maybe it’s not so hard to believe, but their main argument – that these tax cuts stimulate the economy and benefit all of us – is completely bogus.” The budget resolution passed by the House on a party-line vote would freeze domestic programs now and cut them drastically in future years. The GOP budget cuts these programs by $10 billion in 2007 and $160 billion below the amount needed to maintain current services over five years. The cuts including reducing veterans’ health care by $6.0 billion, education by $45.3 billion, public health by $18.1 billion, and environmental protection by $25.0 billion. The GOP budget also includes another round of $6.8 billion in reconciliation cuts to mandatory programs, mostly within the Ways and Means and Education and the Workforce Committees. $39 billion in similar cuts were made in Medicare, Medicaid, student loans, Food Stamps, and child support enforcement funding in the FY 2006 budget process. Moreover, like last year, this budget relies on accounting gimmicks to get projected deficits down. It fails to include a realistic amount for the ongoing wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, for example, which if included would put the deficit over the $400 billion mark. It fails to include the costs of fixing the Alternative Minimum Tax in subsequent years (over $800 billion over ten years), and it fails to show the massive deficits that making the President’s 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent would produce in the years after FY 2011. The federal revenue loss associated with making these tax cuts permanent are so big that they would more than offset the shortfall projected for the Social Security program over the next 75 years. Contrary to the Republican claim of “cutting the deficit in half,” the House-passed budget continues a legacy of deficit spending and debt, producing $1.1 trillion worth of deficits over five years. The budget resolution would also call for a debt limit increase of $653 billion to $9.6 trillion – the fifth in six years – putting the federal government on a path to a total of $3.7 trillion in debt increases under President Bush. “The Republicans’ fiscal policy is nothing short of madness,” Congressman Doyle stated today. “It’s only a matter of time until the other shoe drops, and when it does, people are going to ask Republican Members of Congress how they could have been so foolish and so irresponsible for so long.” “I will continue to work in Congress to enact more responsible fiscal policies that address the needs of my 500,000 constituents – not a handful of millionaires,” Congressman Doyle promised. With that end in mind, Congressman Doyle voted for a Democratic alternative budget that would have avoided harmful cuts to domestic priorities while balancing the budget by 2012. It would have produced smaller deficits each year than the Republican budget, accumulated less debt, and repealed the House rule providing for automatic debt limit increases. It would also have reinstated the effective pay-as-you-go (PAYGO) rules that helped turn record deficits to record surpluses in the 1990s. Unfortunately, this alternative budget was rejected before the House passed the Republican budget by a narrow margin of 218 to 210. ###
05.10.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today voted against legislation that would increase the national debt by nearly $70 billion in order to extend tax breaks that primarily benefit multi-national corporations and households with annual incomes of more than $200,000. “I can’t believe that at a time when the federal budget deficit is clocking in at more than $400 billion a year, Congressional Republicans want to drive our children deeper into decades of debt so they can help a few millionaires,”Congressman Doyle said. “We can’t afford more tax cuts for the wealthy at a time when we’re waging two wars overseas and an anti-terror campaign at home and we’re cutting safety net programs for the neediest, most vulnerable Americans.” H.R. 4297, the “Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act,” would extend the existing tax breaks for capital gains and dividends for an additional two years – providing an average tax break of $41,400 to those making over $1 million. This provision would save the typical taxpayer in Pittsburgh about $16. The bill also extends the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) exemption, although only for one year, and it boosts allowable expensing limits for small businesses. The non-partisan Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation estimates that the bill will reduce federal receipts by $69.96 billion over the next five years “This legislation would give millionaires two years of tax breaks, while it protects millions of middle-class families from the AMT for only one year,”Congressman Doyle observed. “Those just aren’t my priorities.” “To the extent that we are going to cut taxes this year, I believe we should target those tax cuts to working families, especially middle class families who are about to be hit hard by the Alternative Minimum Tax,” Congressman Doyle added. “That’s why I voted against this misguided legislation.” Unfortunately, H.R. 4297 was approved on a more or less party-line vote of 244 to 184. This legislation must now be approved by the Senate before it becomes law, and the Senate is expected to act on it soon. Enactment of H.R. 4297 will mark the end of the Fiscal Year 2006 federal budget reconciliation process. The other budget reconciliation bill, H.R. 4241, cut $39 billion federal spending programs – primarily from student loans, Medicaid, child support enforcement and other important safety-net programs. It’s remarkable that with passage of H.R. 4297, the Fiscal Year 2006 budget reconciliation process will actually increase the federal budget deficit – rather than reduce it, as reconciliation measures have done historically. “This shouldn’t really come as a surprise,” Congressman Doyle noted. “It’s simply the continuation of years of Republican fiscal irresponsibility which haveincreased the national debt to more than 8 trillion and increased taxpayers’ interest payments on that debt to an average of more than $300 billion a year over the next decade.” ###
05.08.2006	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)tonight presented George Blake from Woodland Hills High School with theFirst Prize in the 2006 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Penn-sylvania. His artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is a self portrait in acrylic paint. His work was selected out of a collection of 40 entries from 9 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. The second place prize went to Carl Bennett from Woodland Hills High School for his Linoleum print, “African Suspicion.” The third place prize went to Lynsey Loposky from West Mifflin High School for her acrylic painting entitled “Memory of a Soldier.” The fourth place prize went to Nicole Oldham from Penn Hills High School for her watercolor entitled “Reality Born from the Pen.” The fifth place prize went to Julianne Sota from the Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts for her acrylic painting entitled “House of Color.” The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the twelfth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted such events. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition. The judges also awarded the following 10 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: 1) Sarah Davidson Penn Hills High School “Self Portrait” Acrylic Painting 6) Joanna Krause Woodland Hills High School “Taxidermy Animal – Cape Buffalo” Charcoal 2) Alex Chase Taylor Allderdice High School “Massless” Painting 7) Miller McCormick Taylor Allderdice High School Untitled Photography 3) Samantha Barnes Montour High School “Betty” Acrylic Painting 8) Elyse Walter Woodland Hills High School “Taxidermy Study of an Ibex” Linoleum Print 4) Adrianne Hairston Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts “City Night” Block Print 9) Jasmine Leftwich Pittsburgh High School for the Creative and Performing Arts “Untitled” Charcoal 5) Emily Jaworski Penn Hills High School “Blooming Rose” Colored Pencil 10) Andrew Schubert Taylor Allderdice High School “Free” Colored Pencil ###
05.08.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today called for extending the May 15 deadline for signing up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, citing a new government report that indicated widespread confusion among seniors about the new program. “Millions of senior citizens still aren’t getting the information they need to make a decision about what option would be best for them under the new Medicare prescription drug benefit,” Congressman Doyle said. “This new report provides ample evidence of what I’ve been saying for months now – namely, that the Bush Administration designed an inadequate and overly complex program, bobbled the roll-out of the new benefit, and now refuses to make things right for seniors by extending the deadline by which they have to sign up for the program if they don’t want to pay higher significantly higher premiums for the rest of their lives.” Since January 1, 2006, Medicare has been offering its beneficiaries prescription drug coverage (known as Medicare Part D) through new private drug plans and through Medicare managed care plans (now called “Medicare Advantage” plans). This program is voluntary, so no one is required to sign up for it - but the premiums will cost substantially more for people who don’t sign up soon. The law imposes a 1 percent surcharge on premiums for every month’s delay in signing up after the May 15, 2006, deadline. The program has been plagued with errors and delays. Last October, for example, just before seniors started signing up for the new benefit, The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services sent “Medicare and You” handbooks containing inaccurate and misleading information about the new Medicare prescription drug benefit to millions of senior citizens. Many seniors have complained about the complexity of the new program. A new Government Accountability Office (GAO) report released last week concluded that the information provided by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services about the complicated new drug benefit is rife with problems. According to GAO, the federal handbooks, website, and 1-800 Medicare hotline failed to provide information that was “consistently clear, complete, accurate, and usable.” Specifically, GAO found: Written materials failed to comply with basic guidelines for good communications and were written at an educational level that rendered them unreadable for half of all seniors. The Medicare website was poorly designed and was so complicated that seniors were typically able to perform less than half of all the simple tasks they attempted on the site. The 1-800-Medicare hotline provided inaccurate, incomplete, or inappropriate responses to one-third of basic questions. On one key question — which plan offered the lowest costs for individuals who take a given set of drugs — the Medicare hotline provided inappropriate, inaccurate, or incomplete answers almost 60 percent of the time. On Monday, the Medicare trustees released their latest projections, finding that enrollment for the drug benefit was well below expectations, with one-third of seniors without coverage expected to forego the benefit. The confusing nature of the benefit — and the inability of seniors to obtain accurate and understandable information about it — is blamed by many experts for the low enrollment. “Seniors can’t make good choices if they can’t get good information, and many of them are struggling hard to make ends meet on fixed incomes,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The premium surcharge that’s going to kick in after May 15 could hit many of those senior citizens hard.” “The whole point of creating a Medicare prescription drug benefit was to take some of the burden of ever more expensive prescription drugs off their backs,”Congressman Doyle added. “That’s why I’ve cosponsored legislation that would extend the May 15 deadline until December 31st, giving seniors another couple of months to sort out their options and make a choice that best meets their needs.” This legislation, the Medicare Informed Choice Act (H.R. 3861), would extend the Medicare Part D enrollment period through the end of this year and allow one enrollees to change plans once this year as well. For GAO’s report and the fact sheet, please visit www.democrats.reform.house.gov. ###
05.08.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) announced today that 169,440 seniors and disabled workers in Pennsylvania -- 81% of newly enrolled Medicare Part D beneficiaries -- are at risk of falling into the “doughnut-hole,” the part of the program that contains a gap in coverage where beneficiaries continue to pay premiums without receiving financial coverage for medicines. Nationwide, 88% of Medicare Part D enrollees are at risk. The report also concluded that only 13,122 Medicare Part D enrollees in Pennsylvania gained full, uninterrupted coverage through the new law and that those beneficiaries paid a high price – premiums that were 131% higher – for full coverage. “I’ve said all along that the Medicare prescription drug program proposed by President Bush and enacted by his supporters in Congress didn’t do enough to help our nation’s seniors,” Congressman Doyle said today in releasing this report.“Unfortunately, my prediction is now coming true. In the coming months, millions of our senior citizens will have to pay thousands of dollars out of pocket for their medicines.” An alarming 81 percent – 169,440– of Medicare Prescription Drug plan enrollees* in Pennsylvania are enrolled in prescription drug plans that contain a doughnut-hole, or gap in coverage; Only 6.3 percent of Pennsylvania’s Medicare Prescription Drug plan enrollees* – 13,122 – are enrolled in plans with full, uninterrupted coverage; Of the 52 plans available in Pennsylvania, 51 plans – have a gap in coverage; Pennsylvanians enrolled in full coverage plans, without a gap in coverage, have to pay more than twice as much in premiums than those in plans that have a gap; The average annual premium for a full coverage plan is $701.52. “Pennsylvania’s senior citizens deserve better than this,” Congressman Doyle said. “That’s why I have been working with my Democratic House colleagues to fix the Medicare prescription drug program.” Congressman Doyle and other House Democrats have proposed A Prescription for Change to make the Medicare drug benefit simple, affordable, and reliable for senior citizens and people with disabilities. Under the proposal, Medicare would be required to use its bargaining power to negotiate lower drug prices, and the savings would be used to fill the doughnut hole. The Democratic plan would also waive the late enrollment penalty for millions of beneficiaries who are now locked out of coverage until 2007, and simplify the program by creating a Medicare-sponsored option to the private for-profit plans that are currently beneficiaries only choice. More information about this plan can be found athttps://www.housedemocrats.gov/news/librarydetail.cfm?library_content_id=797. The figures cited in this release come from a Congressional Report released today by the House Ways and Means Committee. A copy of the House Ways and Means Committee Doughnut-Hole Report is attached. *Percentages are of Medicare beneficiaries that are not eligible for low-income subsidies through Medicare or Medicaid when they enter the gap in coverage. ###
05.05.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented a check for $72,750 in federal funding to Janet Cercone Scullion, Executive Director of the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society. This money will be used for the construction of a permanent outdoor Pennsylvania History Exhibit at the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society’s Education, Research, and Development Center. “Our region’s history and cultural diversity are essential parts of our identity, and I believe that preserving our remarkable heritage enriches our community and keeps it vibrant,” Congressman Doyle said. “The Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society clearly shares that philosophy, and has made it the foundation of its many efforts to serve this community.” “I’m pleased and proud to be able to help Janet Scullion and the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society carry out their important work by providing this federal funding for construction of this outdoor exhibit on Pennsylvania’s rich history,” Congressman Doyle added. Congressman Doyle worked successfully to include this funding in the federal government’s Fiscal Year 2005 appropriations bill for the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development (H.R. 5041). The money comes from the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Economic Development Initiative. Bloomfield is one of the City’s oldest neighborhoods, with its origins dating back several hundred years to John Conrad Winebiddle’s plantation in the 1700s. It is currently home to a vibrant Italian-American community as well as several other active ethnic groups. Many local families have been Bloomfield residents for the last four or five generations. Consequently, Bloomfield has a strong sense of community and history. “Bloomfield is a microcosm of the scene that took place across this Continent as we were becoming the homeland to people throughout the world,” observed Janet Cercone Scullion, Executive Director of the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society. “The Immigration movement of Germans, Irish, and Italians to Bloomfield over the past two hundred years has made this neighborhood worthy of being called ‘Hometown USA.’” The Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society was founded in 1991 with the mission of preserving the community’s heritage, educating young people about that heritage, disseminating news about the community, and promoting positive relationships between young people in Bloomfield and their elders. Its motto is “Cherishing the past to provide a better future.” The Society publishes a quarterly newspaper called the Spirit of Bloomfield that is published by volunteers with local business support and has a circulation of 12,000. The Society also offers historic and architectural tours of Bloomfield. The Society works through its Education, Research, and Development Project to help Bloomfield’s young people better understand and appreciate their roots – and thereby foster in them a greater sense of community. This project includes interviews of family members and older residents conducted by the children as part of the curriculum for learning about their community. “One of the greatest problems our region faces is keeping its young people from leaving,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The heritage education program developed and operated by the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society helps us deal with that problem by building young people’s ties to this community at the same time as it helps them develop the life skills and academic capabilities that will help them build a good life for themselves here.” “On behalf of the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society, I would like to thank Congressman Mike Doyle for recognizing the complexity of each individual search for meaning,” Janet Cercone Scullion said in accepting the check. “We are a product of our environment, and this opportunity for self discovery is the anchor that builds respect for our ancestors and family ties. This is what America is all about!" Caption: US Congressman Mike Doyle presents a check to the Bloomfield Preservation and Heritage Society. ###
04.25.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today called for U.S. action to stop the Sudanese government’s genocidal policies in Darfur. “Over the last three years, hundreds of thousands of innocent men, women, and children have died and more than a million have been displaced as a result of the genocidal policies of the Sudanese government,” Congressman Doyle said. “It’s completely unacceptable that the United States is standing by and allowing this tragedy to go on year after year after year.” The Pittsburgh Darfur Emergency Campaign (PDEC) recently collected more than 12,000 postcards from local people concerned about the ongoing genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan. The PDEC’s efforts are part of a national campaign by the Save Darfur Coalition to pressure the Bush Administration to do more to end the genocide. “I can’t begin to express how proud I am to be from a community where so many people really care about this critical issue,” Congressman Doyle said. “I hope that this postcard campaign, the vote today in City Council, and the upcoming rally in Washington serve not only as examples of the kind of accomplishments that are possible with hard work and dedication – but also as motivation for people around the world to undertake similar endeavors in order to help end complacency, raise people’s awareness of this pressing human rights crisis, and compel them to action.” Immediately after the rally, the Pittsburgh City Council approved a resolution sponsored by Councilman Bill Peduto that urged President Bush to continue pushing for a multinational peacekeeping force presence in Sudan to end the genocide in Darfur. “Today’s vote in City Council is another important effort to call attention to the suffering of the people of Darfur and help put pressure on the world leaders who have the power to stop this horrible slaughter,” Congressman Doyle added. “I want to commend Bill Peduto, Dave Rosenberg, and all of the individuals and groups that have organized and participated in this effort.” Representative Doyle has been actively involved in Congressional efforts to get the Sudanese government to end the genocide in Sudan. He is a cosponsor of several bills designed to put pressure on the government of Sudan. The House of Representatives recently passed one of these bills, the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act, which would freeze the assets of any individuals responsible for genocide or crimes against humanity in Sudan and deny them visas. The bill would also deny entry to U.S. ports to Sudanese ships and prohibit U.S. assistance to any country violating the U.N. embargo on military assistance to Sudan. In addition, the bill calls for an expansion of the African peace-keeping force currently operating in Darfur. “I urge everyone concerned about the people of Darfur to keep the pressure on Congress, the Bush Administration, the international community, and most of all the Sudanese government in the coming days,” Doyle said. Congressman Doyle accepts postcards urging greater US action to end the genocide in Darfur from David Rosenberg and other members of the Pittsburgh Darfur Emergency Coalition on the steps of the City-County Building in Pittsburgh on April 25, 2006. ###
04.12.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) responded to Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt’s visit to Pittsburgh today by calling on the Bush Administration to support an extension of the deadline for seniors to sign up for the new Medicare prescription drug benefit. “Because the Medicare prescription drug plan that Congress passed at the President’s request was poorly designed, overly complex, and terribly implemented, I think that it’s only fair that Congress extend the deadline by which seniors can sign up for the new benefit without being hit with a premium surcharge,” Congressman Doyle said. “That’s why I’m a cosponsor of legislation that would give seniors six additional months in which to sign up for the new benefit without incurring any penalty.” Secretary Leavitt attended an event at the Prime Time Activities Center in Pittsburgh today to encourage local seniors to sign up for the new Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit by May 15. “The controversial new Medicare prescription drug benefit will help some senior citizens a great deal, but it may not be such a great deal for other seniors,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Many low- income seniors will benefit greatly from signing up, for example. But seniors face a daunting challenge sorting through all of the different options and deciding what choice is best for them.” Congress enacted the new Medicare prescription drug benefit in 2003, and the benefit went into effect on January 1st of this year. Senior citizens and disabled individuals could sign up for the new benefit as of November 15, 2005. Seniors who sign up for the benefit after May 15, 2006, will have to pay higher premiums for this benefit for the rest of their lives. “The administration designed an unnecessarily complex prescription drug benefit and bobbled the program’s roll-out,” he added. “In light of this unfortunate history, I think it’s only fair that Congress give seniors an additional six months to sign up for the new benefit before the financial penalties kick in.” Roughly 43 million senior citizens and disabled individuals are eligible to participate in the new Medicare prescription drug benefit plan. 20 million of them already have prescription drug coverage provided by their employers or through a different government program. According to government figures released last month, only 7 million of the remaining 23 million people have signed up for the new prescription drug benefit. “The Medicare prescription drug benefit bill was written by the Republicans in Congress to help the drug manufacturers and the insurance companies – not our senior citizens,” Congressman Doyle said. “Under this law, insurance companies get billions of dollars in taxpayer subsidies while the federal government is prohibited from negotiating lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries and Americans are prohibited from importing less expensive drugs from Canada. I think that’s obscene. That’s why I voted against it.” �“Ideally, Congress would rewrite the law so that it did more for Medicare beneficiaries and less for the pharmaceutical and insurance companies,”Congressman Doyle added. “If that’s out of the question, then the least we can do is extend the sign-up deadline and hold seniors harmless for the many mistakes the administration has made in designing and rolling out the new Medicare prescription drug program." ###
04.11.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented a check for $100,000 in federal funding to Pittsburgh Mayor Bob O’Connor, State Senator Jim Ferlo, the Bloomfield Garfield Corporation, the Garfield Jubilee Association, and the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh for the construction of new housing in Pittsburgh’s Garfield neighborhood. “One of the keys to revitalizing this region is to start from the ground up, and I don’t think there’s a better place to start than where our families live, work, and play,” Congressman Doyle said. “The Homeownership Choice Program is creating 50 new affordable homes in Garfield, and I’m proud to have been able to help with this important initiative.” The Homeownership Choice Project is the result of a two-year neighborhood planning process initiated by the Bloomfield Garfield Corporation and the Garfield Jubilee Association. This project, which is being carried out by the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, will build fifty new homes in the City of Pittsburgh’s Garfield neighborhood. “We want to thank Congressman Doyle for his help with the continued revitalization efforts in Garfield,” said Joann Monroe, Executive Director of the Garfield Jubilee Association. “Without his help we wouldn’t have been able to go through with the 16 new housing units we’re building in 2006.” “The shovels wouldn’t have gone into the ground on this project if it weren’t for Mike Doyle,”added Aggie Brose, Deputy Director of the Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation. “He really cares about this community, and it shows.” “When Aggie Brose came to me a while back to see if I could secure some federal assistance for this initiative, I was happy to try and help,” Congressman Doyle said. “I’m pleased to have been able to provide the federal assistance needed to carry out this important initiative.” Congressman Doyle secured funding for this housing project through the Economic Development Initiative program operated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Additional information about the Garfield Jubilee Association can be found on-line athttps://www.garfieldjubilee.org/index.htm. Additional information about the Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation can be found on-line athttps://www.bloomfield-garfield.org/BloomfieldGarfieldCorporation.htm Additional information about the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh can be found on-line at https://www.ura.org/. Congressman Doyle presents check for new housing construction in Garfield to Mayor O’Connor and community activists (from left to right: State Senator Jim Ferlo, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh Development Officer Jessica Smith, Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation Deputy Director Aggie Brose, Mayor O’Connor, Congressman Doyle, Garfield Jubilee Association Executive Director Joann Monroe, Bloomfield-Garfield Corporation President Grady Roberts, Bloomfield-Garfield Executive Director Rick Swartz). ###
04.05.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today praised the U.S. House of Representatives for passing H.R. 3127 – the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006. “I am pleased that the House demonstrated its overwhelming support for the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act today,” Congressman Doyle said. “This tough sanctions bill should leave no doubt about the U.S. House of Representatives’ strong condemnation of the ongoing genocide that is being carried out by the Sudanese government and its Janjaweed militia allies in Darfur today.” “Over the last three years, hundreds of thousands of innocent men, women, and children have died and more than a million have been displaced as a result of the genocidal policies of the Sudanese government,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Despite international efforts to end the violence and restore the refugees to their homes, the displacement, disease, starvation, rape, and murder of the people of Darfur continues unabated today.” “All too often, the nations of the world have stood by and allowed the horrendous crime of genocide to be committed without lifting a finger,” he added. “The United States and all democratic countries have no honorable choice but to step up to the plate and stop the slaughter in Darfur.” “Since the measures that the United States has adopted to date haven’t had the desired effect, we need to increase the pressure on the Sudanese government and its allies,” Congressman Doyle said. “The legislation approved by the House today does just that by imposing new sanctions on Sudanese government leaders and other responsible parties.” The Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2005 reiterates the sense of Congress that the atrocities unfolding in Darfur constitute genocide and directs the President to block the assets and deny visas and entry to any individual responsible for acts of genocide, war crimes, or crimes against humanity in Sudan. The bill also authorizes the President to deny entry to U.S. ports to certain cargo ships or oil tankers if the government of Sudan fails to take specified peace measures in Darfur. It also prohibits U.S. assistance to a country in violation of U.N. Security Council Resolutions 1556 and 1591(which impose embargoes on military assistance to Sudan). In addition, the bill directs the President to instruct the U.S. Permanent Representative to the United Nations to urge the adoption of a Security Council resolution supporting expansion of the African Union Mission in Sudan’s (AMIS), the African military observation and peace-keeping force currently operating in Darfur. Finally, the bill authorizes the President to provide assistance to the African Union Mission in Sudan and directs the President to instruct the U.S. Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) to advocate NATO reinforcement of AMIS, upon request of the African Union. “I hope that the Senate will soon follow the House’s lead and pass this legislation as well, and I pray that the President will use all of the authority that Congress gives him to end this genocide,” Congressman Doyle added. “Hundreds of thousands of innocent lives are at stake.” ###
03.10.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented a check for $345,000 in federal funding to local officials for streetscape improvements in Pittsburgh’s Strip District. “One of the keys to revitalizing our region’s economy is connecting our many different communities,” Congressman Doyle observed today in presenting the check to Pittsburgh Mayor Bob O’Connor, Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato, and Neighbors in the Strip Executive Director Becky Rodgers. “Unfortunately, many of our communities are divided or isolated as a result of a number of natural and man-made barriers, and those barriers are serious obstacles to community growth and economic health.” “The Neighbors in the Strip are making an important contribution to this goal by developing a plan for improving the transportation corridors connecting the Strip District with the Convention Center and Downtown Pittsburgh,” he added. “I’m pleased to have been able to provide the federal assistance needed to carry out this important initiative.” This funding will be used to improve key transportation corridors connecting the Convention Center, the new Grant Street Transportation Center, the Strip District, and the Cultural District. Specifically, this project will consist of structural concrete repair, cleaning of concrete and steel overpasses, and surface recovery of the two railroad overpasses that cross over Penn Avenue and Smallman Street. This area is located on the east side of the new David L. Lawrence Convention Center. Congressman Doyle worked successfully to include this funding in the Fiscal Year 2006 federal Transportation Appropriations bill (H.R. 3058). “Our region has a great deal to offer residents, businesses, and tourists, and the unique character of the Strip District is part of that appeal,” Congressman Doyle said. “I am confident that this initiative will significantly advance our shared goal of promoting economic growth while retaining the neighborhood’s special charm.” “Congressman Doyle understands the synergy of connecting Downtown to its surrounding neighborhoods and making the entire region a destination,” observed Becky Rodgers, Executive Director of Neighbors in the Strip. “With the help of dedicated public servants like Mike Doyle, we will be able to bring some of our dreams to fruition.” The Neighbors in the Strip is a non-profit organization established in 1999 to promote economic development opportunities while preserving the personality, integrity, and character of the Strip. Members include businesses residents, and art/cultural organizations located and/or doing business in the Strip. The Executive Director is Becky Rodgers. More information on NITS can be found on the organization’s web site – www.neighborsinthestrip.com – or by contacting Becky Rodgers at 412-201-4774 (phone) or rhrodgers@yahoo.com (e-mail). ###
03.06.2006	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) is coming to the aid of several Allegheny County communities with federal funding to help remove streams that flow into their sewer lines. As part of the ongoing Route 28 reconstruction project, Congressman Doyle secured $800,000 in funding for O’Hara Township, Millvale Borough, Sharpsburg Borough, Reserve Township, and the City of Pittsburgh to end the discharge of two streams into a municipal sewer system and to eliminate drainage from Route 28 as a cause of sewer overflows into the Allegheny River. “I’m pleased to have been able to help these local communities address a pressing public health and environmental problem,” Congressman Doyle said today in presenting the check to Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato and a number of local officials. “I have been working to find a cost-effective way to eliminate the shortcomings in our local wastewater treatment systems since the issue first arose in the late 1990s,” Doyle added. “I’ve worked long and hard to secure federal funding to deal with the aging and outdated wastewater infrastructure system in Allegheny County, and I am continuing to work in Congress to secure additional assistance for these efforts.” The Fried and Reineman stream discharges into a culvert in Reserve Township at the Reserve Township/ Millvale Borough line behind the Millvale Industrial Park. State Route 28 crosses the location of the stream’s original path. During the original construction of the highway, the stream was diverted into a culvert which emptied into a combined sanitary/storm sewer line. Storm water runoff from SR-28 also discharges into the combined sewer and the ALCOSAN system on the Allegheny River near Washington’s Landing. The Ravine Street stream discharges into a sewer line in O’Hara Township just north of Sharpsburg Borough. That line discharges into the Sharpsburg combined sewer system at the intersection of State Route 28 and Ravine Street. The Sharpsburg sewer system discharges into the ALCOSAN interceptor system at the Allegheny River as well. Storm water runoff from SR 28 also discharges into this stream and exacerbates the situation, increasing storm flows into the combined sewer and the ALCOSAN system. A highway widening and realignment project is scheduled for Route 28. This project provides an opportunity to remove the storm inlets from the sewer system and direct them to a new storm system. The total cost to remove the direct stream inflow source and state highway runoff from the municipal sewer system has been estimated at approximately $1 million. “This project will provide an obvious benefit for both the environment and local public health, and I anticipate it will also facilitate local efforts to promote economic development as well,” Congressman Doyle said. “We’ve come a long way in cleaning up our waterways, but we’ve still got a way to go in terms of modernizing our wastewater infrastructure.” Under the direction of the Allegheny County Sanitary Authority, local efforts to remove streams from municipal sewer systems are at varying planning, design and construction. “These projects exemplify the far-sighted municipal cooperation that is under way in our region to address the challenging sewerage issues facing the region,”Congressman Doyle said. ###
02.06.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today released the following statement describing his reaction to the Fiscal Year 2007 federal budget request that President Bush delivered to Congress this morning: “President Bush has proposed a $2.7 trillion federal budget for 2007 – with a deficit that will exceed $400 billion. “He proposes spending more that half a trillion dollars on defense, Iraq ,Afghanistan , and homeland security – and his budget doesn't include nearly all of the costs for the war in Iraq . “He also proposes cutting taxes by $280 billion over the next five years and $1.6 Trillion over the next ten years. If he follows through on his commitment to fix the Alternative Minimum Tax, he'll have to come up with an additional $800 billion over the next ten years or increase the national debt by a comparable amount. “At the same time, he proposes $36 billion in cuts in Medicare, along with a number of smaller but no less devastating cuts in programs for poor and elderly Americans. “This budget is just “more of the same” from President Bush. That's especially disturbing because the President's policies are hurting so many Americans and damaging our economy. “The President insists on cutting vital programs for hard-pressed Americans to partially pay for tax cuts that go overwhelmingly to the well-to-do. “To add insult to injury, President Bush's economic policies would place the burden of his tax cuts on the backs of our children. “President Bush and a Republican-controlled Congress have increased the burden on our children by two and a half trillion dollars. “Under this President, the budget has gone from record surpluses to record deficits and the national debt has increased from $5.6 trillion to $8.1 trillion. “The long-term structural imbalance that the Republicans have produced between the federal government's revenues and its obligations will haunt Americans and our children for decades and, if not corrected, will eventually choke off economic growth and our standard of living. “The negative impact that this budget would have on the nation as a whole is even more pronounced for southwestern Pennsylvania , due to our disproportionately elderly population and the above-average level of assistance that our region gets from the federal government. “Cuts in Medicare reimbursements to hospitals and other providers will have a disproportionate impact on our region, which is a regional leader in health care. “Similarly, the freeze in funding for the National Institutes of Health will hurt the cutting-edge research that is being conducted in our region on new treatments for devastating diseases like cancer. “As with so many of the President's proposals, there's less to his new initiatives than meet the eye. The President's new competitiveness initiative, for example, consists primarily of reauthorizing a research tax credit that Congress has routinely renewed for the last 10 or 20 years. “Most of his education initiatives consist of eliminating a number of existing education programs and reprogramming that money towards other education goals. For the fourth year in a row, the President has proposed under-funding his signature education initiative – the No Child Left Behind Act – and for the fourth year in a row, he's failed to increase the Pell Grant for college students, most of whom are hard-pressed to keep up with the skyrocketing costs of higher education. “Similarly, his “Strengthening America's Communities” initiative looks at first glance like a shell game in which he plans to consolidate funding for federal community development programs in a larger block grant and reduce overall funding for those programs in the process. He proposed basically the same thing last year, but Congress rejected his proposal once its impact became clear. The Community Development Block Grant program provides 20 million dollars a year to the City ofPittsburgh and another $20 million each year to Allegheny County . While it's difficult to tell at this point what the President's budget would do to the CDBG program, his budget last year was estimated to cut local CDBG funding by about $15 million or 30 percent. That would really hurt the communities in my district, which use that money for all kinds of redevelopment projects and social services. “The President has proposed a roughly 20 percent cut in the Corps of Engineers budget for maintenance and improvement of our nation's waterways (from $7.4 billion to $5.8 billion). That can't fail to have a devastating impact on our region's waterways, which have already had their budgets and staff cut back significantly. “While we can't tell what impact the President's budget will have on the 911 th , we know the President wants to cut the National Guard substantially, so we have to expect a fight over adequate funding for the facility's new anti-terrorism role. “The President's budget contains nothing for Mag-Lev or any other part of the Next Generation High-Speed Rail program; I consider that incredibly short-sighted and a great loss for southwestern Pennsylvania if the President's request is adopted, because our region is poised to establish an important new steel manufacturing industry based on the Mag-Lev technology. “I'm pleased to note, however, that President Bush included $55 million in his budget for the North Shore Connector, which is the amount that the Port Authority ofAllegheny County and local leaders had been hoping for in the 2007 budget.” ###
02.02.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)voted against a bill (H.Res. 653) making $39 billion in cuts in health care, student aid, and child support enforcement programs when it was approved by the House of Representatives on a vote of 216 to 214 yesterday. "Medicaid is our nation's health safety net, the health insurer of last resort for 53 million of our most vulnerable citizens - children, the disabled, and the elderly," Congressman Doyle said. "We shouldn't be cutting Medicaid funding at this time, especially in light of the growing number of Americans who can't afford health insurance." "I strongly believe that any savings that can be made in the Medicaid should be pumped back into Medicaid to improve quality of care, expand eligibility, and reduce out of pocket costs for the poorest of the poor - not to provide more tax cuts for the wealthy," Doyle added. "The ultimate irony, perhaps, is that these Medicaid cuts won't really save taxpayers any money; in fact, they'll almost certainly cost all of us more in the near future. Research has shown that increasing out of pocket costs for low-income households keeps many people from dealing with serious health problems until they're much further advanced and much more costly to treat. We all pay those higher medical bills - either through higher taxes, higher health insurance premiums, or higher medical bills. I believe that we minimize our own costs by ensuring that Medicaid receives adequate funding each year. That's why I think the proposed Medicaid cuts are foolish and counterproductive, as well as inhumane and unworthy of the greatest nation on earth." The legislation approved by the House and Senate yesterday would cut Medicaid by $6.9 billion over the next 5 years - and by $28.3 billion over the next 10 years. It would allow states to charge Medicaid enrollees higher co-payments and premiums for the health care they desperately need. Studies have shown that this increased cost-sharing will result in a decline in enrollees' use of health care services and a worsening of their health status. This bill also makes more than $12 billion in cuts to student aid programs. That's the largest student aid cut ever, raising the cost of college for students and their families through increased interest rates and loan fees. Student Aid falls directly on students and parents. In fact 70 percent of these savings are achieved by increasing college loan costs for parent borrowers and by continuing the practice of forcing student and parent borrowers in many cases to pay excessive interest rates on their loans. Finally, the bill also makes $6.4 billion in cuts in Medicare, including Medicare Part B premium increases, as well as $1.5 billion from child support enforcement, $320 million from Foster Care, and $712 million from SSI for the elderly and disabled. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has estimated that this bill will result in $8.4 billion in reduced child support collections for hundreds of thousands of struggling single parents who rely on them, pushing more children into poverty and letting deadbeat dads off the hook. "I find it simply revolting that Congress is cutting aid for some of the most vulnerable and needy Americans," Congressman Doyle said. "It's simply inconceivable to me that the richest country in the world would stand by and watch its own citizens suffer. I will continue to work in the coming months to enact a federal budget that's compassionate as well as fiscally responsible." ###
02.01.2006	Washington, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today enjoyed a hearty lunch of Denver tamales and Fat Tire beer – courtesy of U.S. Representative Diane DeGette (CO-7). “Corn meal wrapped in corn husks never tasted so good,” Congressman Doyle said after sampling some of Denver’s finest food. “I guess that’s because in this case, it tastes like a great Steelers victory.” Representatives Doyle and DeGette had agreed that the loser of the Steelers-Broncos game would buy the winner and their staff lunch. Representative DeGette represents Denver in the House of Representatives, while Congressman Doyle represents Pittsburgh. The Steelers beat the Broncos handily by a score of 34 to 17 on January 22nd, winning a ticket to the Super Bowl, where they will play the Seattle Seahawks on February 5th. “Now it’s on to the Super Bowl, where I’m confident the Steelers will paste the Seahawks and bring the Lombardi Trophy home,” added Doyle. Congressman Doyle has made a similar deal with U.S. Representative Jim McDermott (WA-7). If the Steelers win, Congressman McDermott will provide Pacific Northwest Salmon and a sampler of local microbrews for Rep. Doyle and his staff. If the Seahawks win, Congressman Doyle will buy Primanti Brothers sandwiches and Iron City Beer for the meal. “I hope the food in Seattle is as good as the stuff in Denver,” Doyle said, “’cause I know the Seahawks are goin’ down.” # # #
01.31.2006	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today made the following comments on President Bush's State of the Union speech: "If the President expects his speech to rejuvenate his second term, he's likely to be sorely disappointed. The President has put together a laundry list of policy proposals that are either non-starters or non-answers. "That's really a disaster in the making for the American people, because our country faces a number of serious challenges today that demand strong, thoughtful action from the federal government. "Today, for example, we still face a serious threat from terrorism, but we also face other, equally serious foreign policy threats from around the world as well. The President has still not convinced me that he has a workable plan for a successful exit strategy for Iraq - let alone plans for dealing with the nuclear threats from North Korea or Iran, for example. "We face a number of major challenges at home as well - like rebuilding the Gulf Coast states devastated by hurricanes, providing all Americans with affordable, high quality health care, ensuring that we continue to have access to affordable, reliable energy supplies, making certain that all Americans can look forward to an old age free from fear and need, and creating decent jobs someone can support a family on. "On all these fronts, the Bush Administration has a record of poorly conceived, terribly implemented policies that have produced a disproportionate number of mediocrities and outright failures. Fortunately, the major new proposals he made in his State of the Union request last year - like Social Security privatization and health care "reform" - died quick and merciful deaths, despite Republican control of Congress. There is nothing in the President's speech tonight that suggests to me his new proposals will fare much better - in most cases, the President's approaches are too ideological and too far out of the mainstream. ###
12.01.2005	Dear Friend, Congress is once again debating U.S. policy in Iraq . As one of the Members of Congress who opposed invading Iraq , I believe that this debate is long overdue. When Congress voted three years ago to authorize the invasion of Iraq , I was one of the Members of Congress who voted against it. At the time, I believed that the Administration had failed to make a convincing case that Iraq possessed or was building weapons of mass destruction, or that the Iraqi government had played a role in the 9/11 terrorist attacks, or that Iraq posed an imminent threat to the United States . Subsequent events have validated my conclusions. Unfortunately, the invasion and occupation of Iraq didn't advance the war on terrorism. In fact, it's made the world less safe. But after we invaded Iraq , I felt that we had to maintain a military presence there until stability had been achieved. Over the last two and a half years, I have had great concern about the Bush Administration's exit strategy for Iraq . From the beginning, this administration has lacked a clear, coherent policy for rebuilding Iraq and bringing U.S. troops home. President Bush's latest plan for victory is simply a repackaged rehash of his existing failed policies – policies that would keep us mired in a conflict in Iraq for years to come. I have nothing but unqualified admiration and appreciation for our troops in action overseas. They've done everything we could possibly have asked of them. But the next part of the job can only be done by the Iraqis. Only Iraqi forces will be able to end the insurgency and bring stability to Iraq , and it's time for them to take over the fight. Our continued military presence has become a crutch that is preventing the Iraqi security forces from taking over the fight against the insurgents. U.S. Representative Jack Murtha recently reinvigorated the national debate over Iraq by suggesting that the U.S. military has done all it can do in Iraq, and that it's time for the Iraqi security forces to take over the responsibility for guarding Iraq's borders and fighting the insurgents. I share Mr. Murtha's views, and I am a cosponsor of H. J. Res. 73, his bill calling for the redeployment of the U.S. armed forces currently in Iraq . This legislation calls for pulling U.S. troops out of Iraq at the earliest practicable date. It also calls for maintaining a U.S. quick-reaction force in the region to provide Iraq 's newly elected leaders with security assistance should they request it. Finally, this bill calls for the United States to pursue security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy. I support this approach because I've come to understand over time that our continued presence there is only making the situation worse. As one defense expert has said, our occupation of Iraq “galvanizes the resistance and motivates the jihadists.” I believe that, as Graham Allison, a foreign policy official in the Reagan and Clinton administrations and now Dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, has written, the occupation of Iraq “has diverted essential resources from the fight against al Qaeda, allowed the Taliban to regroup in Afghanistan, fostered neglect of the Iranian nuclear threat, undermined alliances critical to preventing terrorism, devastated America's standing with every country in Europe and destroyed it with the Muslim world…and…discredited the larger case for a serious campaign to prevent nuclear terrorism.” I believe that the departure of U.S. armed forces will sap the Iraqi insurgency of much of its domestic Iraqi support. It's time for Iraqis to take over the defense of their country. Iraqis will have to decide whether their new, democratic government is worth fighting for, and the onus must fall on them to do so. Given the many misjudgments and errors that have already been made by this Administration, that's the best option we have now – for our troops and for the Iraqi people. For months now, the Pentagon has been anticipating, if not actively planning, a major drawdown of U.S. forces in Iraq in the coming year. But only now, after Congressman Murtha spoke out, has the Bush Administration begun suggesting that a drawdown is possible. Congressman Murtha's courageous stand has restarted the national conversation about how to bring our troops home and stabilize the region. As someone who opposed the war even before it started, I'm happy to see Congress again debating this issue. As some of our country's greatest Republican leaders (Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, and Dwight D. Eisenhower) have shown, questioning our government during wartime is not unpatriotic – quite the opposite, in fact. Citizens freely questioning our government is what makes our system strong. I will be working in the coming months to promote a thoughtful, thorough consideration of U.S. options in Iraq – and to achieve the complete transfer of military operations in Iraq to the Iraqis as quickly as possible. A token withdrawal won't do. It continues to be a pleasure to serve you, and I look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress
11.17.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today voted against a bill containing nearly $50 billion in cuts in federal programs like Medicaid, student loans, foster care, and child support enforcement. “This bill makes $50 billion in cuts in programs that help the most vulnerable people in this country at the same time as the House prepares to cut $57 billion in taxes,” Congressman Doyle said today after the vote. “I find that irresponsible, inexcusable, and unsupportable – and I voted against it.” Early this morning, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 4241, legislation that would cut $50 billion over 5 years from federal entitlement programs like Medicaid, student loans, and foster care by a vote of 217 to 215. H.R. 4241 would make $11.4 billion in Medicaid, the federal health care program for poor children, the disabled, and low-income elderly. The bill would also make $14.3 billion in cuts in the federal student loan program, increasing student loan costs for the average student borrower by $5,800. It would also cut child support enforcement by $4.9 billion, which the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates would reduce child support payments from deadbeat dads by more than $24 billion. Congressman Doyle voted against the bill, citing his concerns about fiscal responsibility and the impact that the bill would have on the poor. “The Republican House Leadership has named this bill the ‘Deficit Reduction Act of 2005,'” Doyle observed after the vote. “But the Republican budget will actually increase the deficit by $50 billion. That's about as Orwellian as it gets. If they wanted to be honest about what they're doing, they should call it the “No Child Gets a Dime, No Millionaire Left Behind” budget.” The Senate is expected to approve its version of this legislation in the near future, and then the differences between the two bills must be resolved. Once a final compromise version is reached, it must be approved again by both the House and Senate before it can be enacted into law. “I will continue to work to oppose these irresponsible, inequitable, budget bills and work for a more equitable, compassionate, and fiscally responsible federal budget,” Congressman Doyle said. ###
10.07.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today expressed his great satisfaction at the dedication of the National Cemetery of the Alleghenies, which is scheduled for Sunday in Bridgeville. “This is an important occasion for many of our honored veterans,” Congressman Doyle said today. “They earned the right to a burial in a national cemetery with their service to their country. They shouldn’t have to be buried a great distance from their families, friends, and communities in order to enjoy that honor. Now, when they pass on, they can truly rest in peace.” Interest in establishing a national veterans cemetery in Pittsburgh dates back 20 years, but no progress was made toward this goal until 1999. That year, Congressman Doyle introduced legislation (H.R. 1973) which directed the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a national veterans’ cemetery in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. This legislation was cosponsored by the entire Pennsylvania delegation. As a result of the delegation’s efforts and Congressman Doyle’s leadership, a provision to establish a veterans cemetery in southwestern Pennsylvania was subsequently incorporated into the Veterans Benefits Improvement Act of 1999. This measure eventually became public law 106-118. Congressman Doyle was also successful in securing funding to support the completion of this veterans’ cemetery. In 1999, he obtained $500,000 in federal funding for the initial site assessment. The following year, he was successful in inserting directive language in the VA/HUD Appropriations bill that allowed the VA to move forward with the project. Congressman Doyle also secured $1 million in the FY 2001 for the next phase of the project, an environmental impact study of the selected site. In the FY 2002 budget cycle, Rep, Doyle obtained funding to support the acquisition of the selected site, and in FY 2003, Congressman Doyle worked to make certain that the necessary funding for the facility was appropriated. “Having worked hard over the last seven years to have a national cemetery established in western Pennsylvania, I am very pleased to see this much-needed facility dedicated,” Doyle added. “It will make a tremendous difference for the thousands of veterans and their families who live in our region.” Information about the National Cemetery of the Alleghenies can be found on-line at https://www.cem.va.gov/nchp/ncalleghenies.htm.
10.07.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) voted against a bill today that would do little to lower gasoline prices – but would eviscerate important existing environmental protection laws. The bill passed on a controversial party-line vote in which House Republican leaders kept a 5-minute vote open for nearly an hour until they could secure a majority of “aye” votes. “This bill will do nothing to lower the price of gasoline over the next 5 years,” Congressman Doyle said today. “It does, however, gut some of our nation’s hard-won environmental laws. The idea that eliminating environmental standards and removing local judicial control will solve this problem is absolutely wrong.” “What’s worse,” Doyle added, “if a refinery is sited in your community and you fight that permit and lose, you get stuck with all the legal costs incurred by the oil company. This is a shameless pay-off for a politically connected industry that’s already raking in record profits.” H.R. 3893, so-called “Gasoline for America’s Security Act,” would provide new fast-track authority for permitting refineries that removes court decisions from state or local district courts and, instead, assigns exclusive jurisdiction to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. . Furthermore, if the local communities lose their challenge in that court, they would have to pay all of the industry’s legal bills. In addition, the bill would create a new open-ended taxpayer subsidy – covering all the costs that an oil company incurs due to delays in the initial operation of a new or upgraded oil refinery. This bill is unlikely to increase refining capacity. Oil refineries are not being built today because the industry has decided not to build them. There is a powerful economic incentive, in fact, for them to reduce that capacity. The oil industry has closed 177 refineries in the last three decades – while from 1975 through 2000, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency received only one permit request for a new refinery – and, as a matter of fact, that application was approved. Of more immediate concern to consumers, this bill would do nothing to reduce gas prices. The bill’s so-called price-gouging provision gives the FTC authority to go after price gouging by sellers of gasoline or diesel fuel only in those areas where the natural disaster has occurred. It would do nothing, for example, about price gouging in Pennsylvania after Hurricane Katrina hit Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi. Oddly still, these provisions are directed more towards small gas station owners rather than oil refiners – at a time when recent analyses indicate that retailers' margin at the pump have increased only 5 percent and refineries' prices have increased 255 percent. Moreover, the bill wouldn’t allow State Attorneys General to enforce the Federal law, nor would it make market manipulation a cause of action. Finally, the bill wouldn’t cover natural gas, home heating oil, and propane – even though those prices are forecast to increase nearly 75 percent this winter. “The Republican House leadership named this turkey of a bill the “Gasoline for America’s Security Act,” Doyle observed. “I think a better title would be the ‘Don’t Hold Your Breath Act’. It would do nothing to control skyrocketing gas prices and home heating costs – and nothing to promote energy independence. It would simply reward the oil industry with tens of millions of dollars in new subsidies.” “That’s why I voted against it and supported an alternative that would have given the Federal Trade Commission real authority to enforce price gouging nationwide – and allowed state attorneys general to enforce federal law,” Congressman Doyle said. “This alternative would have helped American consumers by halting price gouging, ensuring that our country has adequate emergency refining capacity, increasing investments in alternative energy to keep gas and home heating prices low, and making America energy independent by 2015.” The Stupak-Boucher Substitute that Congressman Doyle supported would have provided consumers relief through effective anti-price-gouging measures both for gasoline and home heating costs. It would have given explicit authority to the Federal Trade Commission to stop price gouging, not just for gasoline and diesel, but for natural gas, home heating oil, and propane as well. The substitute would have provided enhanced civil penalties equal to three times the amount of unjust profits gained or up to $3 million per day, explicitly outlawed market manipulation, and empowered State Attorneys General to enforce the Federal law on top of their state laws. This substitute would also have provided relief to consumers facing skyrocketing home heating cost by expanding the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) through fines paid by price-gouging companies The Stupak-Boucher Substitute would also have strengthened our nation's refining supply. The substitute would have established a Strategic Refinery Reserve (SRR) patterned after the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR), to ensure new refining capacity that would operate at all times and could be increased during supply disruptions. This SRR could ramp up to full production when needed to provide additional supply during national energy shortages, decreasing price pressures at the pump – and would ensure that Federal fleet and military needs would be met at all times. “The Members who voted against the substitute and for the Republican bill have a lot to answer for to their constituents,” Congressman Doyle said after the vote.
10.05.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) stated his strong opposition to substantial cuts in Medicaid last night. Medicaid is a joint state-federal program that provides health insurance for the poor. “The solution to a broken health care system is not to further penalize the poorest, most vulnerable members of our society by cutting their health insurance,” Congressman Doyle said yesterday. “Congress can and should do better than that. I am deeply committed to the goal of ensuring that all Americans have access to affordable, high-quality health care – and I believe that the first step in that direction consists of maintaining Medicaid’s role as a safety net for the most vulnerable members of our society. We should – at the very least – observe Hippocrates’ injunction to “do no harm.” The Congressional Budget Resolution governing federal spending for 2006 required that $10 billion in cuts be made in the federal contribution to the Medicaid program. Congressman Doyle voted against this budget resolution and opposes the proposed cuts in Medicaid. Congressman Doyle made his remarks last night at a town hall meeting organized by the Medicaid Coalition and the Pennsylvania State Council of the Service Employees International Union. He joined a number of healthcare workers and providers, Medicaid policy experts, and community advocates in opposing these Medicaid cuts. The town hall meeting was held at the Community College of Allegheny County’s Boyce Campus in Monroeville. “Medicaid is one of our society’s essential safety net programs, and it’s growing in importance as a million Americans a year lose their employer-provided health insurance benefits,” Congressman Doyle said. “The biggest problem that Medicaid faces is the fact that so many Americans are being pushed out of the middle class into poverty.” “Enactment of the Medicaid program 40 years ago was one of the most important milestones in our country’s long journey toward a fair, compassionate society,” Doyle added. “Medicaid has had a monumental positive impact on the lives of millions of the poorest, most vulnerable members of our society. Combined with Medicare, Medicaid has brought an important element of health security to our society. Between them, these two programs provide health insurance to more than a quarter of all Americans. Both programs serve populations that would be unable to secure affordable, high quality health care without them. If modernizing Medicaid can generate savings, I strongly believe those savings should be put right back into the program to ensure adequate treatment is provided to everyone who is currently eligible.”
09.15.2005	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today called for the establishment of a truly independent commission to evaluate the federal response to Hurricane Katrina. “The American people deserve an objective investigation of what went wrong in the federal government’s response to Hurricane Katrina,” Congressman Doyle said. “The best way to do that is an independent commission like the one that investigated the 9/11 terrorist attacks. That’s why I have joined nearly 200 of my colleagues in the House in cosponsoring legislation that would establish an independent commission modeled on the 9/11 Commission to evaluate the federal government’s response to Hurricane Katrina.” Congressman Doyle is a cosponsor of H.R. 3764, legislation that would establish an independent Katrina Commission to examine and evaluate the Federal Government’s response to Hurricane Katrina and assess our ability to respond to future large-scale disasters. This bill is identical to S. 1622, introduced by Senators Hillary Clinton and Barbara Mikulski in the Senate. This legislation would establish a Katrina Commission that, like the 9/11 Commission, would consist of 10 members with no more than 5 being from either the Republican or Democratic parties, thus ensuring an independent and diverse group of commission members. The Katrina Commission would be granted the same powers as the 9/11 Commission enjoyed. “I was deeply disappointed and concerned when the Republican majority in the House prevented the consideration of such an approach on a party-line vote and rammed legislation creating a partisan-dominated panel through the House today,” Congressman Doyle said. “I doubt that a commission dominated by Republicans would objectively evaluate the performance of the Bush Administration and its political appointees, and I strongly suspect that any such commission would end up simply whitewashing the Administration’s response to Hurricane Katrina.” Instead of establishing an independent commission similar to the 9/11 Commission, the Republican majority in the House of Representatives today passed H.Res. 437, a resolution to form a partisan-controlled select committee to investigate the response to Katrina. The select committee would not have an equal number of Republicans and Democrats and would not have bipartisan subpoena power – in marked contrast to the independent 9/11 Commission, which had an equal number of Republicans and Democrats and worked in a completely non-partisan fashion. “The American people deserve an honest accounting of the federal government’s response to Hurricane Katrina, and I will continue to work to make certain that they get one,” Congressman Doyle pledged. ###
09.09.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today joined a number of Members of Congress in urging President Bush to meet with the leaders of the nation’s oil companies to pressure them to lower gasoline prices. “Supply and demand can’t account for the spike in gas prices we’ve seen,” Congressman Doyle said today. “It’s unacceptable that people in this country are profiteering from the misery of our fellow citizens.” “Americans want and deserve stable, affordable gas prices,” Doyle said. “That’s why I’ve urged President Bush to meet with the leaders of our nation’s major oil companies.” “These companies have the ability – and the responsibility – to make certain that no one in their distribution chain is taking advantage of Hurricane Katrina to squeeze consumers for excessive profits.” “The President has said that his experience and connections in the oil industry would enable him to keep gas prices reasonable. The prices we’ve all paid over the last two weeks are hurting many Americans, and it’s clearly time for him to call in any chits he’s got with his friends in the oil industry. The President must make every possible effort to bring gas prices down. At the very least, he should remind the oil companies that federal law prohibits unfair trade practices. Working families struggling to make ends meet deserve no less. I hope that the President will take our message to heart.” Congressman Doyle and 80 other Members of the House signed the letter to President Bush. The text of this letter follows on the next page. Doyle Press Release September 9, 2005 Page 2 September 9, 2005 The President The White House Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to request that you meet as soon as possible with executives of the nation's major oil companies to learn what they are doing to reduce the cost of gasoline. As you know, the cost of gasoline is unsustainable. According to the American Automobile Association, gas prices remain at $3.04 per gallon on average - a “consumption tax” on American businesses and individuals which is already harming the nation's economy. In some pockets of the country, gasoline prices exceeded $6 per gallon on Labor Day weekend. With the summer driving season concluded and many refineries closed during Hurricane Katrina now having restarted operations, we are concerned that some of the current high costs of gasoline may be attributable to excessive profit-taking at the wholesale level. In order to help ensure that gasoline prices reflect the falling price of oil and increase in refinery production, we believe that meeting with oil company executives would be prudent, reminding them that the Federal Trade Commission Act forbids unfair trading practices in the interstate trade of gasoline. We understand that you favor allowing market forces to correct the situation. But given the circumstances, we believe the Federal government must increase its oversight capacity and bring all its resources to bear on excessive profit-taking in the oil industry. Such a strategy has met with success in the past; in July 2000, then-Energy Secretary Richardson met with oil industry executives with gasoline prices averaging $1.664 per gallon. Within two weeks after the meeting, the price declined six cents and within a month, another eight cents. At present, the Congress has issued bipartisan warnings to oil companies about price gouging. Republican Senate Energy Committee Chairman Domenici pledged to hold hearings if price gouging is suspected, while members of the House Democratic caucus have introduced legislation making price gouging a federal crime. We believe it is vital for the executive branch to instate a similar “zero tolerance” policy for oil companies that engage in price gouging. At this time of national crisis, the American people expect not only responsiveness from their government but action. Calling the oil industry to account is one affirmative step your administration could take to begin to restore public confidence in your ability to handle the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. We look forward to your prompt action.
09.08.2005	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today called for action to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to all of the people who are suffering as a result of the devastation wrought by Hurricane Katrina,” Congressman Doyle said today. “I am touched by the many efforts that are underway locally to help the victims of this hurricane – although I am not at all surprised by the generosity of the people of western Pennsylvania – and I want to commend them and urge them to continue these efforts in the weeks and months to come.” “The scope of this disaster is unprecedented, so our response must be as well,” Congressman Doyle said. “The federal government needs to take dramatic action to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina – and to make certain that it does better next time.” “The federal government needs to do its part in the efforts to meet the needs of the people whose homes have been damaged or destroyed by the hurricane,” Doyle added “Congress has already acted to provide $60 billion for these efforts, and I am confident that we will provide whatever it takes to help these people and the affected communities get back on their feet.” “Locally, my staff and I have been working with the Allegheny County executive to make 200 public housing units in Allegheny County available for use by hurricane evacuees. I am pleased that our region has agreed to host hurricane victims, and my staff has been actively involved in the process of housing and assisting those individuals. I want to particularly commend Goodwill Pittsburgh, the 911th Airlift Wing, the Pittsburgh Project, the Urban League, the United Way, the Pittsburgh Foundation, the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank, UPMC, and Allegheny General hospital for their leadership and generosity in this effort.. Several of my professional caseworkers stand ready to help these people secure all available assistance from the federal government. “I’ve also joined a number of other Members of Congress in sending letters to the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission asking them to thoroughly investigate allegations of gasoline price gouging. I’ve also asked the President to increase emergency LIHEAP funding as well, and I’ve joined a number of other Members of Congress in urging House Speaker Hastert not to cut funding for Medicaid by $10 billion when hundreds of thousands of people along the Gulf Coast will desperately need help from that program.” “In terms of the long run and better preparing for future disasters, I think we need to restore the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s independence and expertise,” Doyle said. “With that end in mind, I have cosponsored legislation that would take FEMA out of the Department of Homeland Security and restore its status as an independent cabinet-level agency. This legislation also requires that the Director of FEMA be an emergency management professional. “At this time of great challenge, we all need to pitch in to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina,” Congressman Doyle said.. “If you want to know what you can do to help, information on how to help the victims of Hurricane Katrina can be found at: https://www.usafreedomcorps.gov/, https://disasterhelp.gov/portal/jhtml/index.jhtml, and https://www.fema.gov/press/2005/katrinadonations.shtm.” ###
08.24.2005	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) presented a check last night to the Board of Trustees of the C.C. Mellor Memorial Library and Edgewood Community House in Edgewood, Pennsylvania. “Last year, when the Trustees contacted my office to ask whether I could secure some federal funding to help make repairs to the building housing the C.C. Mellor Memorial Library and the Edgewood Club, I was more than willing to do what I could,” Congressman Doyle said in making the presentation. “Today, I’m pleased and proud to present a check for $97,000 to Mayor Davin and the members of the Board of Trustees.” This building, which is home to both the C.C. Mellor Memorial Library and the non-profit Edgewood Club, was designed by Edward B. Lee and formally opened in 1918. Franklin Toker, the author of Pittsburgh: An Urban Portrait, has called the building “a public monument” and “one of the best public buildings in the city.” “We are absolutely ecstatic,” said the Honorable Jean Davin, the Mayor of Edgewood, who also sits on the C.C. Mellor Memorial Library and Edgewood Community House Board of Trustees. “Congressman Doyle’s grant will help us to maintain this historic building.” “Whenever you have an older community like Edgewood, you’ve got facilities like the C.C. Mellor Library that were built in the early 1900s,” Mayor Davin added. “It’s hard for a small community like ours to do all the things that need to be done to keep them in good repair. This money is a Godsend for us.” “When the congressman became aware of the challenges we were facing with the infrastructure of this historic building, he really went to bat for us,” said Tom Herward, President of the Board of Trustees of the C. C. Mellor Memorial Library and Edgewood Community House. “We’re very appreciative of his efforts.” Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have this funding included in H.R 4818, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005, which provided the money needed to operate a number of federal government agencies this year. The money will come from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Economic Development Initiative (EDI). The EDI program, as its name suggests, has the mission of helping communities like Edgewood improve their local economies. “This funding will be used to undertake much-needed maintenance on this wonderful, historic old building that has served the residents of Edgewood and the surrounding communities so well since its opening in 1918,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Seeing my work in Washington have a visible positive impact on my constituents is one of the most rewarding parts of representing Pennsylvania’s 14th District in Congress.” Caption: Congressman Doyle presents check to Sally Bogie (on far left), C.C. Mellor Library Director, John Belechak, President, Board of Directors, Edgewood Club, Tom Herward, President of C.C. Mellor Library and Edgewood Community House Board of Trustees, Andrea McNeill, Librarian, and Jean Davin, Mayor of Edgewood More information on the C.C. Mellor Memorial Library is available at: https://www.einetwork.net/ein/ccmellor/index.html More information on the Edgewood Club is available at: www.edgewoodclub.com ###
08.23.2005	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today presented a check for $720,000 in federal funding to Meg Cheever, President of the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy, Mayor Tom Murphy, and Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato for an initiative to install clear, comprehensive and consistent signs throughout the four largest parks of the City of Pittsburgh --Schenley, Frick, Highland and Riverview parks. “I’m glad that I was able to help the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy with the important work it is doing in partnering with the City to revitalize these great urban parks,” Congressman Doyle said. “This signage initiative will definitely improve the accessibility and aesthetic appeal of the parks and benefit everyone who visits them.” Congressman Doyle worked successfully to earmark $720,000 for the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy in the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU). This legislation authorizes $286.5 billion in federal spending on surface transportation programs over six years. TEA-LU covers highways, bridges, mass transit, and a number of transportation-related programs like safety and research. President Bush recently signed this bill into law. “I want to commend Senator Specter, who also worked hard to secure substantial funding for this initiative as well,” Congressman Doyle added. “This was a team effort, and I’m proud to be part of the Pittsburgh’s Parks Conservancy’s team with the senior Senator from Pennsylvania.” Congressman Doyle secured $720,000 for the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy project during the House consideration of the TEA-LU bill, and Senator Specter added $2.2 million more for the signage program and for trail restoration in the parks when the Senate subsequently took up the bill. The money will be used to develop signs for the city’s four large urban parks; the new signs will be aesthetically consistent with the parks environment and will provide clearer directions. The money will also be used for improvements in the hundreds of trails that lace through the park woodlands and meadows. All park improvements are being conducted in accordance with the Regional Parks Master Plan organized by the City of Pittsburgh with the participation of the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy and released in 2000. The Parks Master Plan involved an elaborate public process, including over thirty public meetings. “The Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy is making great strides in partnering with the city administration to restore these parks and in educating the public about the ecology, history and design of the parks,” Congressman Doyle added. “This public-private partnership has played a vital and important role over the last nine years in increasing appreciation for Pittsburgh’s remarkable public spaces and in working to preserve and improve them. It is a legacy of which Mayor Murphy and the whole region can be proud.” “The Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy is enormously grateful to Congressman Doyle and Senator Specter for recognizing the importance of urban parks to the quality of life of the region,” said Conservancy President, Meg Cheever. “We were very fortunate in receiving a generous grant from the Buhl Foundation to fund the conceptual design of our signage program for which we are very grateful. Now, to think that, due to Congressman Doyle and Senator Specter’s help, we can move to implementation of the plan almost immediately is very exciting.” “We in the City are proud to have initiated the public-private partnership with the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy to improve and restore our four largest historic parks”, said Pittsburgh Mayor Tom Murphy. “I am delighted that we have received this generous federal help to move our restoration plans along.” "As a lifelong city resident, I am fully aware of the tremendous asset that we have in our parks systems," said Allegheny County Chief Executive Dan Onorato. "More than five million visits are made to our parks annually, and I am continually impressed by the efforts that our elected leadership, the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy, and our residents make to enhance and preserve our parks." The Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy is a non-profit organization dedicated to restoring and revitalizing the City of Pittsburgh’s park lands. It was founded in 1996, and signed a public-private partnership agreement with the City of Pittsburgh in 1998. The Parks Conservancy has raised over $20 million since that time for parks restoration projects and programs. Congressman Doyle presents a check to Allegheny County Executive Dan Onorato (on far left), City Councilman Doug Shields, Meg Cheever, Mayor Tom Murphy, and State Representative Dan Frankel More information about the Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy can be found at its web site,https://www.pittsburghparks.org. ###
08.18.2005	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today announced that the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank will receive a Victory Against Hunger Award from the Congressional Hunger Center and Victory Wholesale Grocers for its efforts to fight hunger. “The Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank provides 368 children with over 7,000 balanced meals and over 3,000 nutritious snacks each month,”Congressman Doyle said. “It’s easy to see why this local organization deserves recognition for its efforts to make certain local children have adequate access to food. That’s why I nominated the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank for this award.” The award from the Congressional Hunger Center and Victory Wholesale Grocers comes with a check for $1,000 to help the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank in its ongoing efforts to eliminate hunger in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area. This is the 13th year that the Congressional Hunger Center and Victory Wholesale Grocers have issued Victory Against Hunger Awards. The awards this year were evaluated on how well they improved the quality of care given to children by improving their access to the federal Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP). Congressman Doyle nominated the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank for the award earlier this year. The Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank was one of 84 organizations nominated for the 2005 Victory Against Hunger Awards. 32 awards were given to non-profits and state agencies that demonstrated success and creativity in improving children’s access to the CACFP. “To help ensure that local low-income children in after-school programs receive nutritious foods, the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank created the After School Programs Network” Congressman Doyle added in announcing the award. “Through the After School Programs Network, the Food Bank is able to help increase the amount of nutritious food that low-income children receive at local after-school programs.” The After School Programs Network is an educational outreach project created to inform after school programs about their eligibility to receive federal reimbursement and reduced cost snacks and meals for the students through the Child and Adult Care Food Program. This allows them to divert their limited resources away from the purchase of meals and snacks to programming and the purchase of other needed materials. The Food Bank works with 43 after-school program sites in Allegheny County that receive CACFP reimbursements for meals and snacks provided to low-income children The Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank is a nonprofit organization that collects, stores, and distributes food and grocery products to soup kitchens, food pantries, shelters, and other agencies that help needy clients. Each month, this organization collects, stores, and distributes more than 1.4 million pounds of food to a network of 350 charitable member agencies that serve low-income individuals in Allegheny County as well as seven affiliate food banks serving neighboring counties in southwestern Pennsylvania. It provides 120,000 people each month with food – including 37,000 children. More information about the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank can be found at its web site,https://www.pittsburghfoodbank.org/. More information about the Child and Adult Care Food Program can be found at:https://www.fns.usda.gov/cnd/Care/CACFP/cacfphome.htm ###
08.17.2005	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)yesterday presented a check to Kevin M. Jordan, Executive Director of the NorthShore Community Alliance (NCA) in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The NorthShore Community Alliance will use this funding to renovate three vacant buildings on Tripoli Street in Pittsburgh’s East Allegheny neighborhood into an educational facility and community conference center. “For over 100 years the NorthShore Community Alliance has been helping Pittsburgh’s most disadvantaged residents,” Congressman Doyle said in making the presentation. “I’m pleased to have been able to help them continue and expand upon the important work that they’ve been doing.” The money will be used to renovate the three vacant buildings into an educational facility and community conference center. The new facility will provide computer training to children and adults in order to help erase the digital divide. NCA will also expand on existing pilot programs that provide entrepreneurial training to members of the community through Robert Morris University and teach young people the fundamentals of robotics in a partnership with Carnegie Mellon University. In addition, the new facility will be open to local businesses and organizations for use as a conference center. “East Allegheny, like many of Pittsburgh’s neighborhoods, needs help in making sure that its residents can compete and succeed in the high-tech global economy of the future,” Congressman Doyle observed. “This new facility will help provide residents of the North Side with the knowledge and skills they need to succeed in today’s knowledge-driven economy.” Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have this funding included in H.R 4818, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2005 (Public Law 108-447). The money will come from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Economic Development Initiative. "This funding is an important step in our organization’s efforts to raise the $1.5 million that it will take to get the NCA Technology/Conference Center open and functioning," said Kevin Jordan, Executive Director of the NorthShore Community Alliance. “We’re confident that this center will be a cornerstone in revitalizing one of Pittsburgh’s hardest hit communities.” The NorthShore Community Alliance was established in 1895 as the Allegheny Association for the Improvement of the Poor and was at the forefront of the settlement house movement at the end of the 19th century. The NorthShore Community Alliance was, until recently, known as the Neighborhood Centers Association. The organization provides services to the Allegheny County Department of Children, Youth, and Families and operates two community centers, the former Manchester House in Manchester and the Limbach Community Center in the North Side neighborhood of East Allegheny. In addition to family counseling, it offers numerous training and educational programs. Caption: Congressman Doyle presents check to Jason Wells (on far left) and Kevin Jordan (left center) of the NorthShore Community Alliance for work on NCA’s Technology Education Center. More information on the NorthShore Community Alliance can be found athttps://www.nca-pgh.org/ ###
07.29.2005	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that the transportation bill approved by the House of Representatives today contained $12.8 million for projects in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District. “I’m happy to report that I was successful in securing more than $12 million in federal funding for these important local transportation projects,” Congressman Doyle said today. “These projects will significantly improve the quality of life for the residents of Allegheny County.” “Improvements in our nation’s transportation infrastructure not only provide substantial economic stimulus and job creation,” Congressman Doyle added.“They reduce air pollution and traffic congestion as well. In addition, the trails authorized in this bill will provide Americans with important new recreation options.” The House voted to approve the final version of the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) earlier today by a vote of 412 to 8. The Senate is expected to approve the bill later today. This legislation authorizes federal surface transportation programs for six years. TEA-LU covers highways, bridges, mass transit, and a number of transportation-related programs like safety and research. Congressman Doyle secured authorizations in the legislation for the following projects in Pennsylvania’s 14th Congressional District: $5.6 million – Duquesne/McKeesport flyover ramps $ 960,000 – Convention Center roadway reconstruction $ 880,000 – pedestrian and water access to Convention Center $ 800,000 – Brighton Road Extension $ 800,000 – Reesdale Street roadway reconfiguration to allow HOV access to new parking facility $ 800,000 – Allegheny County Urban Runoff Mitigation $ 720,000 – installation of comprehensive signage across Pittsburgh’s urban parks $ 640,000 – widening and modernizing Bates Street, replacing Bates Street Bridge $ 600,000 – complete Pittsburgh Riverfront Trail Network including Hot Metal Bridge $ 600,000 – River Trail and Esplanade Development at the Southside Riverfront Park $ 418,000 – new “clean fuel” buses for Port Authority In addition, Congressman Doyle worked successfully to have authorizations for the following transit projects included in the bill: North Shore Connector Stage II Light Rail Transit Rehabilitation Project Keystone West Passenger Rail Corridor in Blair, Cambria, Westmoreland, and Allegheny Counties East West Corridor Rapid Transit Martin Luther King Jr. Busway Extension Oakland Technology Corridor The largest 14th District project in the bill consists of the construction of “flyover ramps” to provide better access to The City Center of Duquesne and the Industrial Center of McKeesport. The City Center of Duquesne and the Industrial Center of McKeesport are both former steel plant sites that are being redeveloped into industrial parks. The City Center of Duquesne site was formerly the US Steel Duquesne Works, and the Industrial Center of McKeesport is located on the site of the old US Steel National Tube Works. The two sites had been unused and vacant for years – severely hindering the local economy. Local officials have been working for years to clean up and redevelop these two sites, but a critical marketing, safety, and convenience issue has been the restricted access to the sites across extremely active railroad tracks. The development of a flyover” ramp at each site, to give unrestricted vehicular and pedestrian access to them, will greatly enhance the ongoing cooperative efforts to return these Mon Valley sites to fully productive use. Congressman Doyle secured $2.6 million for the Duquesne and McKeesport flyover ramps in the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century (P.L. 105-178) in 1997. With the $5.6 million included in H.R. 3, Congressman Doyle will have secured $8.2 million for this project. “I was pleased that Senator Santorum was able to secure an additional $3 million for the Duquesne and McKeesport flyover ramps,” Congressman Doyle said today. “With the money that Senator Santorum secured for this project, we’ve secured all of the funding needed to complete this important project.” “This bill will create 40,000 jobs for every billion dollars it spends – and that’s just during the construction phase,” Congressman Doyle observed. “After that, we’ll all benefit from a better, faster transportation system and reduced travel times.” ###
07.28.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)today expressed his strong support for the Irish Republican Army’s announcement that it would stand down and abandon its armed campaign for a united, independent Ireland in favor of peaceful political action to achieve that goal. “This is a great day for Ireland, a great day for democracy, and a great day for peace,” Congressman Doyle said in response to the IRA’s announcement. “This represents another important step forward in the peace process that began seven years ago with the Good Friday Agreement.” Congressman Doyle made his statement after meeting with Martin McGuinness, chief peace negotiator for Sinn Fein, and other members of the House Ad Hoc Committee on Irish Affairs and the Friends of Ireland, two Congressional organizations that have worked for peace in Northern Ireland for many years. Earlier today, the Irish Republican Army released a statement which said, in part, “The leadership of Oglaigh na hEireann (the IRA) has formally ordered an end to the armed campaign. This will take effect from 4 p.m. this afternoon. All IRA units have been ordered to dump arms. All volunteers have been instructed to assist the development of purely political and democratic programmes through exclusively peaceful means. Volunteers must not engage in any other activities whatsoever.” In the meeting with Mr. Doyle and other Members of Congress interested in the peace process, Mr. McGuinness reaffirmed the historic and irrevocable nature of the announcement and called on the British government and the Unionists in Northern Ireland to take comparable steps to move the peace process forward. He thanked the United States Government and the members of the Ad Hoc Committee on Irish Affairs and the Friends of Ireland for their efforts over the past seven years to keep the peace process going despite numerous setbacks. “The people of Northern Ireland have suffered for decades,” Congressman Doyle observed. “Our hearts go out to all of the families that have experienced pain and loss over the course of this terrible struggle. I have been a strong and consistent supporter of the Good Friday Agreement and the peace plan it laid out seven years ago. The IRA’s announcement today is another important step forward on the difficult path to peace. I urge the other parties in these negotiations to show similar courage and commitment.” Photo caption: “Congressman Doyle and Sinn Fein official Martin McGuinness take questions from reporters after a press conference earlier today in the Rayburn House Office Building in Washington, D.C. ###
06.24.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that he opposes the deep cuts in public broadcasting that the Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representatives has proposed, and that he was pleased by the House vote yesterday to restore some of that money. “Yesterday’s vote was a victory for public broadcasting and all of the American families that depend on it for news and educational programming,” Congressman Doyle said today. “I am pleased that my colleagues in the House joined me in voting overwhelmingly to restore $100 to public broadcasting. My only regret is that the bill approved by the House still underfunds public broadcasting by $82 million.” The vote came during House consideration of H.R. 3010, a bill to fund the operations of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS), and Education next year. This legislation was funded at more than a billion dollars lower than the current spending level in order to pay for more tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. Congressman Doyle voted against the bill when it was approved by the full House and forwarded to the Senate for that body’s consideration. Earlier this month, the House Appropriations Committee voted to eliminate within two years all federal money for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting starting with a 25 percent reduction in CPB's budget for next year (from $400 million to $300 million). Yesterday the full House voted to reverse the Committee funding cut. “These funding levels would hurt thousands of families in Allegheny County,”Congressman Doyle said today. “The bill as passed by the House contained cuts in important programs like the No Child Left Behind education act, job training grants, LIHEAP, the Centers for Disease Control, the global fight against HIV/AIDS, in addition to public broadcasting. That’s why I voted against it. I will continue to work through the remainder of the appropriations process to fully fund these important programs.” Congressman Doyle’s Floor statement on Public Broadcasting follows below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of the Obey-Lowey-Leach Amendment would to restore a $100 million cut to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. The $100 million that the amendment seeks to restore amounts to a 25% cut in the funding that goes directly to local Public Radio and Television stations in the form of Community Service Grants. “For more than 35 years, public broadcasting has produced a distinguished series of historical documentaries, cultural programs, public affairs shows, and other excellent programming. It has reflected the essence of our country, showing America to Americans. “WQED Multimedia in my district in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania has been a leader in public broadcasting for decades. Today, when so much of commercial TV is dominated by sex, violence and celebrity scandals, PBS is often the only place to go for truly excellent programming. For example, WQED brought Mister Roger’s Neighborhood into our living rooms and enriched the lives of millions of children. This type of quality programming could be lost if we withdraw our support for public broadcasting. In fact, WQED stands to lose nearly 45 percent of its federal funding if the Obey-Lowey-Leach amendment is not accepted. “Americans overwhelmingly recognize the value of this programming. 82 percent consider federal funding for PBS “money well spent.” In fact, Americans consistently rate funding for Public Broadcasting second only to military spending as a worthwhile use of their tax dollars. “Mr. Speaker, we must protect funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting from these draconian budget cuts. The American people support public broadcasting and we should too.”
06.23.2005	WASHINGTON - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that for the next week, college graduates and people currently in college have an opportunity to consolidate their student loans at historically low fixed interest rates. “Individuals who act over the next week to lock in the current interest rate on their consolidation loans could save themselves hundreds – and possibly thousands of dollars,” Congressman Doyle said today. “I urge college students and graduates who are still paying off their student loans to look carefully at the pros and cons of consolidating their students loans prior to the July 1st deadline.” Every year at this time, the federal government adjusts student loan consolidation loan rates. These interest rates will increase dramatically on July 1st, and borrowers can save thousands of dollars in interest costs if they lock in the existing consolidation loan rate by then. Students currently in school can consolidate their current student loans and lock in an interest rate of 2.77 percent, although they may have to forgo the 6-month grace period in order to do so. Those who consolidate after their grace period can lock in a rate of 3.37 percent. Parents with federal PLUS loans can consolidate and lock in a rate of 4.17 percent. After July 1st, interest rates will increase by 1.93 percentage points – the largest annual increase since 1980. An average undergraduate borrower, with $19,000 in student loans, will incur nearly $2,100 in increased interest payments on a ten year loan repayment plan if he or she chooses to consolidate after July 1st. Many people with student loans may want to seize this opportunity to consolidate their student loans before the rates increase dramatically. Below are several web sites which provide further information on student loan consolidation. American Association of State Colleges and Universities:https://www.aascu.org/policy/alerts_05/052005a.htm State Public Interest Research Groups Higher Education Project:https://www.pirg.org/consolidation/ U.S. Department of Education: https://www.loanconsolidation.ed.gov or 1-800-557-7392
06.21.2005	WASHINGTON - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that he and three other Congressmen have urged Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld to meet with a group of women whose sons were killed while serving in Iraq. The lawmakers, three Democrats and one Republican, sent the Secretary a letter after the Pentagon failed to respond to the mothers’ repeated attempts to secure a meeting on their own. Reps. George Miller (D-CA), Henry Waxman (D-CA), Ken Calvert (R-CA), and Mike Doyle (D-PA) sent the letter after five mothers of fallen soldiers contacted the lawmakers to report that their efforts to arrange a meeting at the Pentagon – by phone, mail, and in person – went unanswered. Four of the five women live in the lawmakers’ respective districts. “As you well know, few sacrifice more than those who answer the Armed Forces’ call to duty,” the lawmakers wrote to Rumsfeld. “And for the families of the fallen, we owe an enormous debt of gratitude. We now ask your help in granting these mothers the meeting that they have been so persistently requesting and, in our opinion, deserve.” The five mothers – four from California and one from Pennsylvania – are Cindy Sheehan of Vacaville, CA; Vickie Castro of Corona, CA; Jane Bright of West Hills, CA; Karen Meredith of Mountain View, CA; and Diane Santoriello of Pittsburgh, PA. “I knew Army First Lieutenant Neil Anthony Santoriello, Jr., personally,” Congressman Doyle said today. “He interned in my office. He was a fine young man who was deeply committed to serving this country, and I mourn his loss along with his friends, his families, and his comrades.” “These mothers, no less than their children, have made the ultimate sacrifice for this country,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The burden of this war has fallen harder on them than on nearly anyone else. I think it’s outrageous that the Defense Department will not even answer their request for a meeting. Our country owes them that at the very least.” “Several months ago, Secretary Rumsfeld admitted that the condolence letters he was sending to the families of soldiers killed in action were being signed with an autopen,” Congressman Doyle observed. “The Secretary, to his credit, acknowledged that such a policy was inappropriate and has since begun signing each letter personally as a gesture of respect and responsibility for each soldier killed and for their families’ loss. I believe that this situation is analogous, and that the Secretary or at the very least some senior Pentagon official has an obligation to meet with these grieving parents and shouldn’t shirk that responsibility.” The letter to Rumsfeld can be read at https://www.house.gov/doyle/2005April28GoldStarMoms.pdf.
05.13.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)tonight presented Lindsay Kilroy from Woodland Hills High School with the First Prize in the 2005 Congressional High School Arts Competition for the 14th Congressional District of Pennsylvania. Lindsay’s artwork, which will be displayed in the United States Capitol for one year, is an acrylic painting entitled “Self Portrait Reflection” Her work was selected out of a collection of 59 entries from 11 schools throughout the 14th Congressional District. The second place prize went to Nicole Oldham from Penn Hills High School for her artwork, “Two Potatoes and a Yam.” The third place prize went to Lauren Heidingsfelder from Woodland Hills High School for her watercolor, “All American Art.” The fourth place prize went to Holly Cook from Penn Hills High School for her colored pencil entry entitled “Colonial Cottage.” The fifth place prize went to Lyndsay Haines from Montour High School for her pencil drawing entitled “Summer Garden.” “We received 59 outstanding entries for this year’s competition, and I can’t imagine how the judges were able to pick a winner. The hard work and dedication that these students put into their work is clear, and their artistic talents are quite evident in the artwork they submitted. They all should be proud of their creativity and talent,” Congressman Doyle said. The winners were announced and recognized at an awards ceremony held at the University of Pittsburgh’s William Pitt Union in Pittsburgh. The competition was again sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus of the United States House of Representatives. This was the tenth year in a row that Rep. Doyle has hosted such events. All public and private high school students within the 14th Congressional District are invited to participate in this competition. “Every year, I am amazed at the talent and creativity of the young people in our communities,” Congressman Doyle remarked. “It is my pleasure to acknowledge and recognize these individuals and their artistic abilities by sponsoring this event every year.” -more-Doyle Press Release May 13, 2005 page 2 Due to the large number of outstanding works of art submitted for this competition, the judges awarded the following 10 students Honorable Mentions for their artwork: 1) Jaime PaolinoGateway High School “Thailand Acrylic painting 6) Eric NashWoodland Hills High School “Art Supplies” Linoleum block print 2) Demetra RushèWoodland Hills High School “Flying Colors ” Collage 7) Heather DavisWest Mifflin High School “Companions” Acrylic painting 3) Emily ConfortiGateway High School Untitled Acrylic painting 8) Katherine MarronWoodland Hills High School “Lullaby” Colored pencil drawing 4) Grace RajnovicPittsburgh High School for theCreative and Performing Arts “The War Machine” Digital media picture 9) Michael DenglerPittsburgh High School for theCreative and Performing Arts “Brain 1” Digital media 5) Brittany FarrelSto-Rox High School Untitled Acrylic painting 10) Joe MillerWest Mifflin High School Untitled Pastel and colored pencil
05.11.2005	Washington, D.C. - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that he has secured $1 million in federal funding for a study of how to eliminate the threat to public safety presented by natural gas leaks in the Borough of Versailles. “These gas leaks are a serious threat to homes and businesses in Versailles,”Congressman Doyle said in announcing this accomplishment. “I’ve been working with the National Energy Technology Lab to put together a plan for finding these gas leaks and then either capping them or capturing the gas they are releasing. I’m pleased to announce that we’ve now got the funding in place to move ahead with that operation.” “This grant’s a great thing for Versailles,” said Anita Gricar, President of the Versailles Borough Council. “This is really going to help us out.” In the early 1900s, about 1,000 natural gas wells were drilled in a 1-square mile area that became known as the McKeesport Gas Field. Over 600 of those wells are located in the Borough of Versailles. These wells were abandoned decades ago. Some of the wells were improperly plugged, and in many cases, the steel tubing that lined the wells was retrieved and recycled during World War II to meet the country’s defense needs. As a result, natural gas is leaking through some of the old wells and collecting in dangerous concentrations in homes and businesses in Versailles. This situation poses a serious threat to local residents. In addition to the danger posed by toxic fumes in a number of homes and businesses, there is the distinct risk of a catastrophic gas explosion as well. When high gas concentration readings are made, utility companies must discontinue gas and electric service and evacuate residents and businesses until the situation is eliminated. As a result, a number of residents and businesses have been displaced. “I have been working on a long-term solution to this problem since I became aware of it,” Doyle added. “Unfortunately, the wells are so old that there’s not even a record of where they’re located, so first we’ll have to survey the area and identify the sources of the gas leaks. Once we’ve done that, we will be able to either seal them off or capture the gas and use it safely. I will continue to monitor the progress of this process and work to secure the funding needed to follow up on the survey and clean up this mess.” As a result of Congressman Doyle’s efforts, $1 million for the National Energy Technology Laboratory to carry out the Versailles gas field survey was included in legislation passed by the House last week and approved by the Senate last night. This legislation now goes to the President for his signature.
04.13.2005	Washington, DC - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14)announced today that he and Representative Lee Terry (NE-2) added an amendment to the House energy bill that will double federal funding for research on hydrogen fuel cells over the next 5 years. “The Doyle-Terry amendment will substantially increase the federal investment in hydrogen research and development,” Congressman Doyle said today. “That research will produce more affordable and efficient fuel cells for automobiles, as well as portable and stationary power generators.” The Doyle-Terry amendment will double federal funding for research and development of hydrogen fuel cells from $1 billion over the next 5 years to $2 billion over that period of time. “Fuel cell technology has already been proven to work,” Doyle observed. “The federal government should act now to provide the funding necessary to make this technology available to the American consumer. This investment will help break the stranglehold that foreign oil currently has on our nation – and go a long way as well to help America meet the environmental challenges resulting from hydrocarbon emissions.” “It is critical that our nation invests in emerging technologies like hydrogen fuel cells in order to meet the ever growing demand for energy in America,”Congressman Doyle added. “The path to energy independence is not through short-sighted policies like drilling in the Arctic. The path to energy independence is through American innovation and investment in new technologies. That is why I have been pushing to increase federal support for energy-related research and development, and why I will continue to work toward that end. The Doyle-Terry amendment was adopted by the full Energy and Commerce Committee during the mark-up of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, legislation to establish a comprehensive national energy policy. This legislation is expected to be approved by the Committee and considered by the full House of Representatives in the near future. Representatives Doyle and Terry are the founders and co-chairmen of the House Distributed Generation Caucus, an organization dedicated to promoting the generation of electricity at scattered sites across the country rather than at large centralized power plants. The small-scale production of electricity at or near homes and businesses reduces reliance on our overburdened electricity transmission system, provides greater reliability, reduces pollutant emissions from large power plants, helps control energy price fluctuations, and makes electric power markets more competitive, which benefits consumers. ---
04.07.2005	Dear Friend, The annual federal budget is the clearest single statement about our government’s priorities. The U.S. House of Representatives recently conducted a lengthy debate about those priorities. The House debated three different visions for the federal budget – the budget resolution supported by the House Republican leadership and two substitute amendments offered by House Democrats. After much debate, both amendments offered by House Democrats were defeated and the original resolution was passed and sent to the Senate for its consideration. The Republican House Leadership Budget The budget resolution supported by most Republicans didn’t reflect my priorities, and as a result I voted against it when it was approved by the House on a vote of 218 to 214. It’s both fiscally irresponsible and morally irresponsible. It cuts important federal programs while providing additional tax cuts for the wealthy that we can’t afford – and running massive deficits that would hurt everyone in the long run. The Republican budget would provide $843 billion for “discretionary spending” in fiscal year 2006. “Discretionary spending” is all federal spending that is not “mandatory” spending like interest payments on the national debt and entitlement programs like Social Security and Medicare. This budget would increase defense spending by $70 billion (of which $50 billion is funding for our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan) and cut non-defense discretionary spending by $4 billion – which is $12 billion less than would be needed to provide the same services the federal government is providing this year. These cuts, which will be decided later in the year, would fall on a number federal programs, most likely including education, veterans’ health care, homeland security, community development, and law enforcement. Over the next five years, this budget would cut non-defense discretionary spending by a total of $150 billion. By 2010, that would result in a $47 billion (or more than a 10 percent) cut in these programs. Federal spending on education, health care, and other social services for the poor and disabled are already grossly inadequate. Under this budget, this problem would get increasingly worse. This budget would cut $2.5 billion in federal education programs in 2006, for example, and $38 billion in those programs over the next five years. It would also cut federal community and regional development programs by $8 billion (over 30 percent) over the next 5 years. That would be disastrous for communities in Allegheny County, which currently receive over $40 million a year in Community Development Block Grant funds alone. Finally, this budget would cut veterans’ health care by $14 billion below current services over the next five years – and require $800 million in either new fees for veterans health care or in cuts in disability pay, pension benefits, or veterans’ education benefits. This budget would also require $8 billion in cuts in mandatory programs in 2006 and a total of $69 billion in cuts in mandatory programs over the next 5 years. Of those cuts, $21 billion would come from the programs under the jurisdiction of the Education and Workforce Committee – which means that they would have to come from child nutrition programs, student loans, vocational rehabilitation programs, or pension and disability programs. Another $15 billion to $20 billion would come from cuts in Medicaid, the federal-state program that provides medical care for the poor and the disabled. The budget approved by the House also called for $19 billion in cuts over the next five years in programs within the jurisdiction of the House Ways and Means Committee. Programs likely to go under the knife there include the Earned Income Tax Credit, the Child Tax Credit, unemployment benefits, Supplemental Security Income benefits for low-income seniors and the disabled, the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, and foster care. In addition, at a time of record deficits, the Republican budget resolution would cut taxes dramatically – by $100 billion over 5 years and by $1.6 trillion over the next ten years. Most of these tax cuts would go to the most affluent Americans – those with incomes of $300,000 or more a year. If Congress adopts this budget and makes the tax cuts from President Bush’s first term permanent (which would increase federal deficits by between 1 and 2 trillion dollars over the next ten years alone) and we continue to spend a billion and a half dollars a week in Iraq and Afghanistan, we won’t be able to avoid making dramatic cuts in every major federal domestic activity in the next few years. Moreover, instead of balancing the federal budget, this budget would increase federal deficits by $127 billion over the next 5 years and produce massive deficits for years to come. In fact, it would never bring the federal budget into balance. This failure to address the deficit in the coming years will add a trillion dollars to the national debt over the next 10 years, increase federal interest payments by billions of dollars annually, and most likely boost interest rates on mortgages, auto loans, credit card balances, and student loans. Between this budget’s cuts in services and its massive deficits, this budget plan would place a heavy burden on lower- and middle-income families – all to provide additional tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. Finally, this budget was shamelessly deceptive. In a departure from past practice, it included federal budget projections for the next 5 years instead of the 10 year projections that have been provided in the past. This was clearly done for several reasons. First, it allowed the House Republicans to claim progress on deficit reduction by leaving out the years 2011 to 2015 – when deficits explode under their plan. Second, it hides the true cost to the public of making the President’s tax cuts permanent. While making those tax cuts permanent would increase deficits by “only” $106 billion over the next 5 years, it would add at least $2 trillion to the national debt over the next ten years (once the additional interest costs associated with the tax cut are counted). This is because most of these tax cuts don’t expire until 2011. Third, the budget resolution fails to address several major costs which the federal government will undoubtedly incur over the next 5 to 10 years. While the resolution included a one-year $31 billion “fix” for the Alternative Minimum Tax, for example, it ignored the costs of adjusting the alternative minimum tax for inflation in subsequent years ($200 billion over 5 years and $642 billion over 10 years). And while the Republican budget included $50 billion to cover some of the costs of the war in Iraq in 2006, those costs are expected to total $384 billion over the next ten years. And perhaps most significantly, while many House Republicans are calling for the adoption of President Bush’s Social Security privatization plan, their budget didn’t include any of the $754 billion in transition costs that this plan would incur over the next ten years (or the $5 trillion it would cost over the next 20 years). For these reasons, I voted against this resolution and voted for each of the two Democratic substitutes described below. The Watt Substitute The Watt substitute would have produced lower deficits – $167 billion lower – over the next 5 years than the Republican budget, while spending significantly more on important federal domestic programs. This substitute would have provided more than $24 billion more for education than the Republican budget resolution in 2006. It would provide $1.5 billion more than the Republican budget for community and regional development in 2006. The Watt substitute would provide $4.65 billion more than the Republican budget for veterans’ programs in 2006, and it would have rejected the $800 million in increased fees and benefit cuts called for in the Republican budget. The Watt substitute would maintain the current federal level of financial commitment to the Medicaid program, which provides desperately needed health care to more than 52 million low-income and disabled people. The Watt substitute would also have rejected the Republican budget’s $19 billion in cuts in mandatory programs for the poor within the jurisdiction of the House Ways and Means Committee. The Watt substitute would have reduced spending on ballistic missile defense (“Star Wars”) by $7.8 billion and used that funding to increase spending on homeland security, our troops in Iraq, and programs for our veterans. Finally, the Watt substitute would have rejected the tax cuts in the Republican budget. In fact, it would have rolled back the Bush tax cuts for households with incomes of more than $200,000 a year and eliminated several abusive tax loopholes in order to reduce the deficit and maintain or increase spending for important domestic programs. These two changes would have improved the federal budget outlook by $35 billion in fiscal year 2006 and by $169 billion over the next 5 years. I voted in support of the Watt substitute, which reflected priorities much closer to my own than the Republican Leadership’s budget. Unfortunately, the Watt amendment was rejected on a vote of 292 to 134. The Democratic Substitute Budget Representative John Spratt, the Ranking Democratic Member of the House Budget Committee, offered a substitute budget that I believe also had much better priorities than the Republican budget. The Spratt substitute balanced fiscal responsibility with the necessary levels of spending on federal responsibilities like defense, homeland security, education, veterans’ health care, and law enforcement. This Democratic substitute would have balanced the federal budget within the next 7 years. It would have increased our public debt by $182 billion less than the Republican budget over the next five years. This substitute would have provided more than $4.5 billion more for education than the Republican budget resolution in 2006 and $41 billion for over the next 5 years. It would have increased the maximum Pell Grant by $100 per year for the next 10 years – twice the amount by which the Republican budget would increase it – and (unlike the Republican budget) it wouldn’t have cut other college aid programs to pay for it. It would have provided $2 billion more than the Republican budget for community and regional development in 2006 and $9 billion more over the next 5 years. This substitute would have provided $1.6 billion more than the Republican budget for veterans’ health care in 2006 and $17 billion more over the next 5 years. It would also have rejected the $800 million in increased fees and benefit cuts called for in the Republican budget. The Democratic substitute would have maintained the current federal level of financial commitment to the Medicaid program. The Spratt substitute would also have rejected the Republican budget’s $19 billion in cuts in mandatory programs for the poor within the jurisdiction of the House Ways and Means Committee. The Democratic substitute would even have provided tax relief to the households that need it most. It would have extended expiring tax cuts for middle-class families – like the child tax credit and marriage penalty relief – while preserving spending on critical federal domestic programs and balancing the budget. In addition, the Democratic substitute would have re-imposed the federal “pay-as-you-go” budget rules that expired several years ago. Those rules required that any future tax cuts or spending increases be offset by other tax increases or spending cuts. Those “PAYGO” rules were widely given much of the credit for the budget surpluses that Congress achieved in the 1990s. Finally, unlike the Republican budget, the Democratic substitute showed all of its tax and spending projections for the next ten years. This made the priorities and trade-offs inherent in this budget much clearer and allowed the public to better evaluate those priorities and trade-offs. I voted in support of this amendment, which reflected much better priorities than the Republican Leadership budget. Unfortunately, this substitute was rejected on a vote of 264 to 165. Summary With the House’s rejection of the Spratt and Watt substitutes and its adoption of the House Republican leadership’s budget, the impact that the federal budget will have in fiscal year 2006 is getting clearer and clearer. Unless something unexpected happens, Congress is very likely to adopt a budget that cuts taxes and domestic programs substantially while continuing to run massive annual deficits as far as the eye can see. Such policies would clearly be unsustainable, and they would result in economic disaster for this country – and for the majority of Americans. The massive annual deficits that we’re producing by refusing to pay for the services the federal government provides will impose a dreadfully heavy burden on future generations. The Senate recently passed its own version of the budget, and now appointees from the House and Senate are working to resolve the differences between the two resolutions. Once such a “conference agreement” is reached, each body must vote to adopt it before it becomes binding. Congress is required by law to complete work on the fiscal year 2006 budget by April 15. It is my sincere hope that Congress will reverse course and adopt a budget that makes its top priorities fiscal responsibility and meeting the needs of low- and middle-income Americans. I will continue to work in the coming weeks (and possibly months!) to achieve those goals. It continues to be a pleasure to serve you, and I look forward to hearing from you. Please feel free to e-mail me at Rep.Doyle@mail.house.gov to share your thoughts with me or to request assistance in dealing with the federal government – or, if you prefer, you can use my web site, www.house.gov/doyle. Until next time, I am Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress
03.10.2005	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) declared an important victory for the American steel industry today with the expansion of the Steel Import Monitoring Analysis program. The Commerce Department announced on March 9th that it would extend the Steel Import Monitoring Analysis system until March 2009 and expand it to include 30 additional steel products. The SIMA provides the steel industry with advanced notice of the types, levels, and prices of imports. “This is an important victory for the U.S. steel industry,” says Congressman Doyle, after the Commerce Department decided to extend SIMA. “I supported the Administration’s anti-dumping action but I felt that it should have been carried out for a number of years to come, which is why I worked with both Democrats and Republicans to see that SIMA will continue to help the United States steel industry. “Just this past year, U.S. steelmakers reported one of their most successful profitable years in recent memory, and SIMA was one of the reasons for their success. I believe that by extending SIMA the U.S. steel industry will grow and prosper. “I am proud to say that my colleagues and I were successful in convincing the administration to continue the SIMA until 2009. The United States will now be able to respond quickly when foreign steel industries try to dump their products into our nation.” Congressman Doyle and a bipartisan group of members of the Congressional Steel Caucus have been working to compel the Bush Administration to extend the Steel Import Monitoring program. With that end in mind, they recently introduced the Steel Import Monitoring Act, legislation that would make the SIMA program permanent. ###
03.08.2005	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) presented a check for $72,750 to Joe Lagana, the founder of the Homeless Children’s Education Fund, last night. “I am glad that I could secure this federal funding to help Joe and the HCEF with the important work they’re doing to provide greater educational opportunities for homeless children in Allegheny County,” Congressman Doyle.“The Homeless Children’s Education Fund is making tremendous headway in the struggle to ensure that local homeless children don’t get left behind.” Congressman Doyle worked successfully to earmark $72,750 for the Homeless Children’s Education Fund in the Fiscal Year 2005 Consolidated Appropriations Act. This money will be used for the revitalization and renovation of its learning centers in homeless shelters in Allegheny County. In 2004, HCEF operated learning centers at 7 of the 18 homeless shelters serving families with children throughout the county. These learning centers provide homeless kids with computer access, a place to do their homework, educational materials, and tutoring. The program currently reaches about 700 homeless children and youth, and has the potential to reach 2,000 children annually. These learning centers are located at The Salvation Army Family Crisis Center (downtown), Three Rivers Youth – The Hub (Strip District), Womanspace East, Inc.(Uptown/Lower Hill District), Women’s Center & Shelter of Greater Pittsburgh (Shadyside), HEARTH – Benedictine Place (North Hills School District), YWCA Bridge Housing, and YWCA of McKeesport. In 2004, HCEF provided a new backpack filled with school supplies to the 1200 children who were homeless when the 2005-2005 school year started. The Homeless Children’s Education Fund is a not-for-profit organization formed in 1999 to supplement federal educational assistance to homeless children so that those children have the same access to educational opportunities as other kids. It engages in both action to help local homeless kids and advocacy to “Engage local partners to raise community awareness of the plight of homeless children and to work with homeless families and school districts to protect and promote homeless children’s educational rights.” Its operating budget is provided by corporate sponsors and foundations, and 100 percent of all private donations are invested in an endowment fund that funds the learning centers and provides mini-grants for educating the more than 3,000 homeless kids in Allegheny County. More information about the Homeless Children’s Education Fund can be found at its web site, https://www.homelessfund.org/. ###
03.07.2005	Pittsburgh, PA - U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (D-PA-14) joined U.S. Representatives Phil English (R-PA-3), Melissa Hart (R-PA-4), and Tim Murphy (R-PA-18) today in announcing the introduction of The Steel Import Monitoring Act, H.R. 1068 – legislation that would require the U.S. Commerce Department to expand and permanently track certain imports of steel products. The current steel import monitoring program is set to expire March 20, 2005. H.R. 1068 would expand and make permanent the steel import monitoring program that was established as part of the president’s steel safeguard action in 2002. This bill would cover the following headings of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule: 7206-7229 [mill products]; 7301-7307 [rails, structurals, pipe and tubes, fittings and flanges]; 7308 [fabricated structurals]; 7310.10 [barrels and drums]; 7312 [strand and rope]; 7313 [barbed and fence wire] ; 7314-7315; and 7317 [fabricated wire]. Continuing the steel import monitoring program on a permanent basis and expanding it to cover all steel mill products will not in anyway inhibit imports nor will it directly contribute to price increases for covered products. “A healthy domestic steel industry is essential for both our national security and strong economic growth,” Congressman Doyle said. “Consequently, I strongly supported the anti-dumping action that the Administration undertook several years ago, and I believe that it was terminated far too quickly. I am certain that foreign steel producers will try dumping steel in the United States again in the near future – and we need to have a monitoring system in place to warn us when they do, so that we can take swift action and prevent the loss of any more steelmaking plants and jobs.” “We appreciate the support of Reps. English, Doyle, Hart and Murphy, who recognize the critical value of accurate and timely import information,” said Dan D. Sandman, Vice Chairman and chief legal and administrative officer for U.S. Steel. “Especially in a market such as steel's – which has been characterized by dumping, subsidization and sudden import surges for decades – having an extended and expanded import monitoring system in place will lead to better government policy decisions as well as a more efficient marketplace.” “Today, my colleagues and I urge passage of this bipartisan bill to expand and make permanent the vital steel import monitoring program and further guard against the kind of surge in steel imports that devastated our domestic industry and put many thousands out of work six years ago,” said English, a member of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee and Co-Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. “This program has been an indispensable tool for our steel producers and policymakers to better track the heavily distorted global steel sector and take appropriate action. We must not allow the steel import monitoring mechanism to expire.” “Our steel industry was devastated by the surge of imports into our country at the end of the 1990's,” said Hart, a member of the House Ways and Means Committee. “Rep. English’s import monitoring legislation will allow the industry and the administration to keep an eye out for warning signs of another possible wave of imports that could harm our market.” All four Representatives are members of the Congressional Steel Caucus, which has developed and promoted legislation to guard the United States’ steel industry and manufacturing sector against unfair trade, including urging the Administration to impose Section 201 safeguard protections for our domestic steel industry in 2002. The Caucus has urged the Bush Administration to use its rule-making authority to make the steel import monitoring program permanent before it expires. ###
02.17.2005	Dear Friend, President Bush delivered his budget request to Congress last week. This budget covers the federal government’s fiscal year 2006, which starts in eight short months – on October 1 st. Congress must now consider the President’s request and approve a final budget by April 15 th. The budget will dominate Congressional debate over the next two months. As I’ve been looking through the President’s budget, I’ve been amazed at how misleading it is – and how bad it would be for our country. Adoption of this irresponsible budget would take the country on a path to economic and personal disaster and leave our kids holding the bag. Moreover, the Bush budget has all the wrong priorities. THE BUSH BUDGET IS MISLEADING: The Bush administration has hidden the extent of its fiscal irresponsibility by ending the traditional practice of providing budget figures for the next ten years – instead providing information on only the first 5 years. Moreover, while the President has been claiming that his plan will cut the deficit in half by 2009, President Bush chose that date carefully as the endpoint for his deficit reduction plan. Under the policies the President has proposed, deficits grow substantially every year after 2009 FOR DECADES –massive deficits of $400 Billion, $500 Billion, $600 Billion, $700 Billion and more – as the Baby Boom generation retires and federal retirement and health care costs explode. The President claims that his plan will cut the deficit in half by 2009, but to make the numbers work, his budget fails to reflect several large obligations that the federal government will have over the next couple of years: IRAQ: The administration’s budget contains NO Fiscal Year 2006 money for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, even though those costs could easily reach $70 billion. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that if we gradually phase down our forces in Iraq over the next 5 years, the ten-year cost will be an additional $384 billion (bringing the total cost of the war from start to finish of nearly 600 billion). SOCIAL SECURITY PRIVATIZATION : The President’s out on the road stumping for his plan to privatize Social Security, but his budget doesn’t include the transition costs his plan would require – somewhere around $754 billion, depending on when and how the plan is phased in. (the $754 billion figure assumes that the change wouldn’t be fully phased in until 2011). Vice President Cheney has stated that this plan will cost trillions of dollars in the coming years, and outside experts have estimated that it would cost $4.9 trillion over the first 20 years the plan is in operation. MAKING THE 2001 AND 2003 TAX CUTS PERMANENT : Because the Bush tax cuts don’t expire until 2011, most of the cost of making them permanent falls outside the 5-year of deficit projections that the Administration has provided – although making the Bush tax cuts permanent would increase our deficits by $1 trillion over the next 10 years. That, I believe, is one of the reasons that the administration has stopped providing ten-year numbers in its budgets. Over the same period of time that Social Security will experience a revenue shortfall of $3.7 Trillion, the President’s tax cuts will reduce revenue to the federal government by $11.6 Trillion. FIXING THE ALTERNATIVE MINIMUM TAX : The alternative minimum tax currently affects about 2-3 million people, but since it’s not indexed for inflation, it will soon affect tens of millions of middle-class households – raising taxes on all those families. The President has put off fixing the alternative tax in favor of giving tax breaks to millionaires, but we’re going to have to bite the bullet some time soon, and the ten-year cost of fixing the AMT is $642 billion. Nearly $3 TRILLION in additional spending and tax cuts was left out of President Bush’s budget. When you add in the additional debt service on the cost of those initiatives, the President’s budget would produce close to $4 trillion in increased government borrowing and the interest payments needed to finance it over the next 10 years. Under the President’s budget, annual interest payments on the national debt will double from $150 billion a year last year to $300 billion in 2010. We’re throwing away hundreds of billions of dollars a year in interest payments on the national debt, choking off economic growth, and saddling our children with backbreaking interest payments. Many respected economists now say that the deficits caused by the President’s (2001 and 2003) tax cuts will be more of a drag on the economy than a stimulus. In addition, the Bush budget plan assumes that domestic discretionary spending will be cut by $212 billion over the next five years. This level of funding is so radical that many Republicans in Congress are already expressing concern about it. And even those dramatic cuts wouldn’t begin to eliminate the deficits that are expected in future years. Finally, the Bush Budget uses the growing surpluses in the Social Security Trust Fund to mask the true size of the gap between the federal government’s revenues and its spending. THE BUSH BUDGET IS IRRESPONSIBLE AND WOULD BE TERRIBLE FOR OUR ECONOMY: The Bush budget continues the Administration’s misguided fiscal policies ofcutting taxes at a time of massive deficits and increased spending on the war on terror. Moreover, it makes our fiscal problems bigger by proposing a massive new initiative to privatize Social Security, and it proposes massive cuts in critical domestic discretionary programslike health care, community development, education, and law enforcement. President Bush calls for $214 billion in domestic discretionary programs over the next 5 years. These spending cuts would devastate our communities and our society’s most vulnerable members. Despite major cuts in domestic spending programs, the President’s budget increases deficits in the coming years. The continuing large structural federal deficits are due in large part to the tax cuts enacted in President Bush’s first term. The Bush Budget will produce unsustainable deficits for decades to come. These deficits will sooner or later produce higher interest rates that will choke off economic growth. Most of the increased debt will be purchased by foreign investors – making us dependent on foreign governments. These massive structural deficits will produce crushing debt that will make it harder to fix Social Security and which will lead to interest payments that are a tremendous burden on our kids. Our deficit would be half as big today if it weren’t for the tax cuts that President Bush and the Republicans passed in 2001, 2002, 2003, and 2004. The Bush tax cuts will make up $258 Billion of the $427 Billion FY 2005 deficit. THE BUSH BUDGET REFLECTS THE WRONG PRIORITIES: A budget is a statement about priorities. The President’s priorities differ greatly from those of the American people. I believe that most Americans want a fiscally responsible government and a government that invests in our nation’s future, provides a safety net for our society’s most vulnerable members, and allocates the burden of government fairly. In contrast, the President proposes massive new tax cuts and an expensive, radical plan to change the Social Security program while cutting important domestic spending programs and drastically increasing the national debt by borrowing trillions of dollars. For the third year in a row, the Administration’s budget calls for a new record deficit, $427 billion. President Bush has promised to produce a budget that cuts the deficit in half by 2009, but he has failed to offer a credible plan to achieve that goal. On the contrary, his budget and his policy agenda for his second term would drive the deficit dramatically higher. The President calls for sacrifices from most Americans – sacrifices like Social Security benefit cuts and cuts in Medicaid– while asking for no sacrifices from the wealthiest Americans. In fact, President Bush is the first president to call for annual tax cuts in a time of war, and he proposes new tax cuts – like Health Savings Accounts -- that would disproportionately benefit the wealthy. The President has sent a budget to Congress that cuts spending on domestic discretionary programs drastically. His budget fails to adequately address the pressing need our country faces for greater investments in education, research, and health care. His policies shift more of the burden of caring for the elderly and the poor onto our state and local governments at the same time as he imposes new mandates on them like the No Child Left Behind Act. And most significant of all, the President proposes eliminating Social Security’s guaranteed decent standard of living for future retirees while leaving those same individuals to bear the heavy burden of the massive deficits his policies create. The tax cuts and borrowing he proposes would reduce future incomes significantly and burden today’s young people with a back-breaking level of debt. Despite his claims to the contrary, the President would do our children and grandchildren no favors. In my opinion, those are the wrong priorities for the federal government. I will be pushing hard in the coming months for Congress to adopt a responsible common-sense budget that preserves Social Security’s guaranteed benefit for retirees, keeps our communities safe and vibrant, and makes the investments necessary to ensure our nation’s long-term economic growth and job creation. It continues to be a pleasure to serve you, and I look forward to hearing from you. Please feel free to e-mail me at Rep.Doyle@mail.house.gov to share your thoughts with me or to request assistance in dealing with the federal government – or, if you prefer, you can use my web site, www.house.gov/doyle. Until next time, I am Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress
02.08.2005	Pittsburgh, PA – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) presented a check for $59,360 to the Ingram Volunteer Fire Department last night. The check represents funding from the Department of Homeland Security’s Assistance to Firefighters Grant (AFG) program. This money will be used to purchase 10 new sets of turn-out gear, some new equipment for firefighting foam, a new hose that has fittings compatible with the equipment used by the other local fire companies the Ingram VFD cooperates with (“mutual aid companies”). “This new equipment will keep the members of the Ingram Volunteer Fire Department safe – and allow them to respond more efficiently to emergencies in the communities they serve,” Congressman Doyle said in presenting the check to the fire department officers and Ingram’s Mayor Chuck Mitch (on the far left in the photo below) and Borough Council President Sam Nucci (on the far right in the photo below). “I’ve worked long and hard to secure more federal funding for our local first responders.” “We’re very thankful for this grant,” said Ingram Mayor Chuck Mitch. “Those fellows are volunteers, and they all work hard, and they really need that new equipment.” The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Award program was established in 2001. Under this program, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office for Domestic Preparedness make grants to local fire departments so that they can increase their effectiveness at fighting fires, improve firefighters’ health and safety, and establish or expand fire prevention and safety programs. Information on the program, including a list of frequently asked questions, is available on the Office of Domestic Preparedness website (www.firegrantsupport.com) and the U.S. Fire Administration website (www.usfa.fema.gov). ###
02.07.2005	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) roundly condemned the budget that President Bush sent to Congress today. “President Bush has proposed a budget for the next four years that would increase the deficit, drive up interest rates, choke off economic growth, and make devastating cuts in programs that are critically important to the people of southwestern Pennsylvania,” Congressman Doyle said today. “We all want to leave a better world for our children – a world that is more prosperous and more secure,” Congressman Doyle added. “Unfortunately, this budget would do just the opposite. It would undermine our children’s economic future, eliminate their retirement security, and leave them to deal with a backbreaking burden of debt.” “For the third year in a row, the Administration’s budget calls for a new record-breaking deficit – $427 billion. What’s worse, the President’s budget paints a grossly misleading impression of its impact by providing no deficit figures after 2010 and by omitting the full long-term costs of the President’s policies on Social Security privatization, taxes, and operations in Iraq. All told, the Administration’s proposals will add more than $4 trillion dollars to the deficit over the next ten years. “The President can’t keep cutting taxes and increasing spending on homeland security and expect the economy to keep chugging along. That’s what got our economy into trouble in the 1960s – and no one wants to live through the stagflation of the 1970s again.” “Moreover, this budget fails to meet our obligation to take care of our veterans, seniors, disabled, and children – and it would fail to make the investments in science, education, and infrastructure that our country needs to prosper in the coming years. It’s a straightforward and simple-minded continuation of the wrong choices and misplaced priorities that have created record deficits and rising debt over the last four years. “In short, the President’s budget proposal would make the deficit problem worse and move the country in the wrong direction. I will work in the coming weeks and months to pass a budget that better reflects the interests of the American people. ###
02.02.2005	Washington, D.C. – U.S. Representative Mike Doyle (PA-14) today released the following statement in reaction to President Bush's State of the Union address: "I was disappointed by the President’s State of the Union speech tonight, and especially by his failure to provide much new detail about his plan to privatize Social Security. "President Bush has been hyping the opportunity that individual accounts could offer to younger workers, but he’s been remarkably short on details about how his plan would make Social Security solvent. "That’s because the President understands how unpopular his plan will be once the public finds out that it would eliminate the guaranteed retirement income that Social Security currently provides and replace it with an investment scheme that would produce big winners and big losers. "The President's effort to create the impression that there's a major impending crisis in the Social Security program sounds strangely familiar to the case he made for Iraq being an imminent threat. "Social Security's future solvency is a serious issue, but it's not a major crisis. Democrats are committed to keeping Social Security solvent for future generations, and we are prepared to work with this administration to do that without dismantling Social Security's guaranteed benefit. "For more than 70 years, Americans have been able to count on a guaranteed income from Social Security when they retire. They’ve earned their Social Security benefits by contributing to the program, and those benefits guarantee them a decent standard of living in their old age. In fact, Social Security is often the only thing that saves millions of senior citizens from living in poverty, uncertainty, and fear. "I will be working to ensure that any Social Security reform bill Congress passes will guarantee a decent standard of living for both current and future retirees." ###
01.06.2005	Dear Friend, The 109th Congress has just been sworn in, and I wanted to take this opportunity to let you know about the expected Congressional agenda for the coming months. Congress hit the ground running this week – addressing last week’s tsunami in Southeast Asia. On Tuesday, the House approved legislation extending our condolences to the families of the tsunami victims and affirming our commitment to providing additional U.S. government support for relief and reconstruction efforts in the countries affected by this massive natural disaster. Congress will kick into full gear once the President is sworn in for his second term on January 20. The President is expected to make his 2005 State of the Union address to Congress shortly after that to outline his policy agenda for the year. President Bush has already announced a number of his main agenda items. At the top of that list is Social Security “reform.” The President has indicated that he will move swiftly to push a Social Security bill through Congress. As most Americans have known for some time, the Social Security program faces a long-term challenge as the Baby Boom generation retires over the coming decades and the number of people receiving benefits from Social Security doubles from 39 million to 80 million. The Social Security Administration’s actuaries estimate that several decades from now, Social Security will have depleted its trust fund and will only have enough revenues from the Social Security payroll tax to pay 73 percent of the benefits it will owe to Social Security beneficiaries. President Bush has labeled this longstanding, long-term problem a “crisis” and proposed a radical plan to “fix” it. The President has proposed allowing future workers to divert a portion of their Social Security taxes into individual investment accounts which they would control and could invest in a number of different ways; when they retired, they would buy an annuity with that money and receive a lifetime income from that investment along with a lower guaranteed Social Security benefit. While many Americans like the idea of having more control over their retirement income, such a change in the Social Security program would result in substantially lower Social Security benefits for future beneficiaries – and produce an additional shortfall of $2 trillion in Social Security funding. Establishing individual investment accounts as part of Social Security would do little by itself to reduce the long-term funding gap facing the program. It would simply make that funding gap somewhat larger. While supporters of these accounts have been reluctant so far to admit it, their plan ends the Social Security funding gap primarily by reducing Social Security benefits dramatically in the coming decades. Even with the level of returns predicted by the Administration, these individual retirement accounts wouldn’t provide most future retirees with enough income to offset the reduction in benefits necessary to balance Social Security’s books over the next 75 years. The future funding gap facing Social Security is serious but it’s not a crisis. That funding gap could be eliminated relatively painlessly by much less drastic measures. The only crisis we face is the possibility that the President and his Republican allies in Congress will be successful in destroying the one guaranteed source of income that future retirees can depend upon. I strongly oppose the “privatization” of Social Security, and I will be actively working throughout this debate to ensure that Social Security continues to provide a guaranteed, adequate level of retirement income for our country’s senior citizens. The next major milestone on the Congressional schedule is February 7, when the President is expected to submit his proposed federal budget to Congress for Fiscal Year 2006. President Bush has promised to produce a budget that cuts the deficit in half by 2009. In this budget, the President is expected to propose making deep cuts in important domestic programs and making his recent tax cuts permanent. I can’t understate the importance of the coming debate over the President’s budget. The outcome will dramatically affect every other decision the federal government will be called upon to make in the coming years. Making these tax cuts permanent will reduce federal revenues by $1 trillion over the next ten years, and its impact is even more staggering in the long run. The revenue loss to the federal government of making the tax cuts permanent is, for example, three times larger than the projected shortfall in Social Security over the next 75 years. If Congress decides to make the tax cuts permanent, it is in effect also making a decision to cut future Social Security benefits substantially. Congress is required by law to complete action on the fiscal year 2006 budget by April 15. It will be an interesting process to watch, to say the least. Last year, despite Republican control of both the House and Senate, Congress never managed to adopt a budget! In addition, Congress is expected to receive a request from President Bush soon for additional funding for the ongoing war in Iraq. Recent reports suggest that this Iraq war supplemental appropriations bill could reach $100 billion or more. While I strongly opposed the invasion of Iraq two years ago, we as a nation can’t avoid dealing with the current consequences of that decision. Consequently, the issue for Congress in the coming months is not whether to appropriate money to pay for our troops’ operations in Iraq – we most certainly will – but whether we will pay for those operations by borrowing the money and leaving our children to pick up the tab. Clearly, Congress will have some important choices to make this year. These challenges are daunting, but they are by no means insurmountable. I will work in each of these debates to make sure that Congress adopts policies that benefit my constituents. That means that I will be working to maintain the guaranteed retirement income that Social Security currently provides; to ensure that the federal government continues to carry out its essential operations and invest in our nation’s future; to make our homeland more secure; to care for the needy; and to maximize our nation’s long-term economic growth and job creation by adopting a fiscally responsible federal budget. It continues to be a pleasure to serve you, and I look forward to hearing from you. Please feel free to e-mail me at Rep.Doyle@mail.house.gov to share your thoughts with me or to request assistance in dealing with the federal government – or, if you prefer, you can use my web site, www.house.gov/doyle. Until next time, I am Sincerely, Mike Doyle Member of Congress
10.28.2004	Washington, D.C. – Representative Doyle announced that the Forest Hills Volunteer Fire Department has been awarded a $111,0384 Assistance for Firefighters Grant (AFG) from the Department of Homeland Security. “I’m a strong supporter of the AFG program because I think the federal government has a strong obligation to help our Volunteer Fire Departments get the equipment they need to protect their communities,” Congressman Doyle said today. The grant will be used to purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) and the equipment to refill the air tanks. “As a result of this grant, we’re able make a complete changeover to totally modern equipment,” said Raymond Heller, Assistant Chief of the Forest Hills Volunteer Fire Department. “The nice thing about it is we’ll be able to have a face piece for each volunteer and a spare bottle for each SCBA. That makes a big difference in terms of readiness and safety.” “Every day our firefighters put their lives on the line to protect our lives, our homes, and our neighborhoods,” Congressman Doyle added. “The Assistance for Firefighters Grant program is a vital federal program that provides much-needed assistance to our local emergency service providers.” The Assistance for Firefighters Grant Award program was established as part of the Fiscal Year 2002 Defense Department authorization bill. Under this law, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office for Domestic Preparedness make grants directly to local fire departments so that they can increase their effectiveness at fighting fires, improve firefighters’ health and safety, and establish or expand fire prevention and safety programs. This year, $750 million is available for this grant program. As part of the application process, applicants must demonstrate financial need and describe the benefits that would be produced by the grant funding requested. Grantees must share in the cost of the funded project. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent. Grantees that service jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. Information on the program, including a list of frequently asked questions, is available on the Office of Domestic Preparedness website (www.firegrantsupport.com) and the U.S. Fire Administration website (www.usfa.fema.gov).
