12.18.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-SC) today released the transcript of the second day of former FBI Director James Comey's interview before the Committees. The transcript of Mr. Comey's interview can be found HERE. Background: In October 2017, the House Judiciary Committee and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee opened a joint investigation into decisions made by the Justice Department in 2016 and 2017. To date, the Committees have interviewed many key witnesses and have reviewed thousands of pages of documents.
11.28.2018	The service academies provide a quality education and builds strong leaders. I am confident that those selected for an appointment will serve the United States with distinction. share: f t Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced his nomination of several students from the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to our nation’s service academies as members of the graduating Class of 2023. A nomination must be received in order to compete for an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, or U.S. Naval Academy. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “The United States’ military has produced some of our country’s most distinguished leaders. It is my honor to nominate these students to compete for an appointment to our nation’s service academies. These young men and women display a willingness to protect and defend the United States, and for that, I applaud them. The service academies provide a quality education and builds strong leaders. I am confident that those selected for an appointment will serve the United States with distinction. I wish them the best and thank them again for being willing to serve their country.” Sixth District Nominations for the Class of 2023 U.S. Air Force Academy Alan Arnesen, son of Mark and Marie Arnesen, is a senior at Stonewall Jackson High School and a resident of New Market. Mason Cobbler, son of Kenneth and Melissa Cobbler, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Zachary Kucharski, son of David and Annette Kucharski, is a senior at Kolbe Academy and a resident of Harrisonburg. Sarah Mayerchak, daughter of Michael and Mary-Phyllis Mayerchak, is a senior at Faith Christian School and a resident of Roanoke. Malcom McIntyre, son of Sandra Kay Miller, is a senior at Spotswood High School and a resident of Penn Laird. Nathan Sylvia, son of Dan and Karen Sylvia, is a senior at Randolph-Macon Academy and a resident of Stanley. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Gabrielle Reed, daughter of Douglas and Tracie Reed, is a senior at Bath County High School and a resident of Warm Springs. Nathan Sylvia, son of Dan and Karen Sylvia, is a senior at Randolph-Macon Academy and a resident of Stanley. U.S. Military Academy at West Point William Crandall, son of David and Ellen Crandall, is a senior Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Cem Durmaz, son of Chutatip and Ahmet Durmaz, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Alexander DiSalvo, son of Anthony and Ania DiSalvo, is a senior at Cave Spring High School and a resident of Roanoke. Lillian Hereford, daughter of William and Alison Hereford, is a graduate of Stuart Hall School, a student at Bridgewater College, and a resident of Staunton. U.S. Naval Academy Steven Hanley, son of Richard and Amy Hanley, is a senior at Riverheads High School and a resident of Stuarts Draft. Nathan Marraccini, son of Joseph Marraccini, is a graduate of EC Glass High School, a student at Virginia Tech, and a resident of Lynchburg. Crawford Enyart, son of Bob and Caitlin Enyart, is a senior at Cave Spring High School and a resident of Roanoke. Brendan Murray, son of Michael and Nina Murray, is a graduate of Jefferson Forest High School, a student at Pennsylvania State University, and a resident of Forest. Gabrielle Reed, daughter of Douglas and Tracie Reed, is a senior at Bath County High School and a resident of Warm Springs. Jack Sherman, son of Andrew and Christine Sherman, is a graduate of Patrick Henry High School, a student at the University of Virginia, and a resident of Roanoke. Paul Kuehler, son of Joseph and Teresa Kuehler, is a senior at Roanoke Catholic School and a resident of Roanoke. Nathan Stewart, son of Chris and Janelle Stewart, is a senior at Randolph Macon Academy and a resident of Edinburg.
11.09.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the United States Department of Agriculture’s announcement to invest $1.6 billion in rural electric utility infrastructure projects: “I want to congratulate the BARC Electric Cooperative in Millboro, Virginia for being included in the USDA loan and loan guarantee program announcement this week. This $13,000,000 loan will connect the BARC offices with five substations, improving distribution grid operations and the reliability of their service to both residential and commercial consumers. It is important for rural areas to have dependable and upgraded electricity systems. I am glad that the USDA decided to invest in the betterment of this Sixth District business."
11.07.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following United States Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ resignation: “Thank you to Attorney General Sessions for his years of public service to our country, which included his commitment to the defense of human life at all its stages, the security of our borders and interior, and the protection of our country. He will leave a strong legacy at the Department of Justice, upon which his successors can continue to build a strong law enforcement apparatus and implement the President’s national security and criminal justice policies." “I wish Matt Whitaker well in his new role as Acting Attorney General, and I look forward to working with him during this time of transition.”
10.24.2018	Today, President Donald Trump signed into law the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a bicameral, bipartisan bill that combats the opioid crisis. share: f t Today, President Donald Trump signed into law the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, a bicameral, bipartisan bill that combats the opioid crisis. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the bill’s enactment. “Families and communities across the United States have been devastated by the opioid crisis. This crisis is a national emergency and we need a comprehensive response to reduce opioid abuse and overdoses. The federal government alone cannot solve this crisis, but today, with President Trump signing into law the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, we are providing more resources to help prevent addiction and provide treatment options for those addicted to opioids. I thank President Trump for his leadership on this issue and I was honored to be present at the White House for the signing today.” Additional Background: In 2016, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act was signed into law. The law, which contains several Judiciary Committee products, strengthens the enforcement of our nation’s drug laws, provides tools to combat addiction, offers appropriate treatment and care to addicts so that they can begin to reclaim and rebuild their lives, and leverages existing programs to accomplish these goals.
10.10.2018	Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Steve Womack (R-Ark) released the following statement on President Trump’s proposal to lift a federal ban on summer sales of gasoline containing 15 percent ethanol: “Efforts to prop up the ethanol industry have been a well-intentioned flop, and today’s announcement from the current administration will profoundly impact consumers. By proposing to allow the sale of high-level ethanol blends during summer months, the administration has chosen to support a one-sided solution that further helps ethanol producers while punishing hardworking Americans. “U.S. families, food producers, businesses, and livestock farmers stand to experience the harmful impacts of more ethanol forced on the market through detrimental effects on vehicles, small engines, feed prices, and energy sustainability. Our coalition has worked to develop an array of bipartisan initiatives to reform the Renewable Fuel Standard in a comprehensive manner. We urge the administration to reconsider this proposal and to allow Congress the opportunity to advance legislative solutions that truly work for all stakeholders.”
10.09.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement upon the Senate’s confirmation of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to be the next associate justice to the Supreme Court of the United States. “Judge Brett Kavanaugh has proven himself to be one of the most qualified jurists to be nominated to the Supreme Court. He has demonstrated his commitment to interpret the Constitution the way it was written, as well as his faithfulness to the rule of law throughout this long and daunting confirmation process. “President Trump has made an excellent nomination to fill the seat of Justice Anthony Kennedy, and I have no doubt that Judge Kavanaugh will serve the Court admirably as the next associate justice.”
09.26.2018	The Hatch-Goodlatte Music Modernization Act (H.R. 1551) is bipartisan legislation that updates several key provisions of U.S. copyright law regarding music licensing share: f t The House of Representatives today approved the Hatch-Goodlatte Music Modernization Act (H.R. 1551), bipartisan legislation that updates several key provisions of U.S. copyright law regarding music licensing. This consensus legislation is a product of the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive copyright review and was introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Vice Chairman Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Representative Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), former House Judiciary Committee Chairman and current Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), and Representative Ted Deutch (D-Fla.). Congressman Goodlatte applauded today’s vote in the statement below. Congressman Goodlatte: “Today’s House passage of the bipartisan Hatch-Goodlatte Music Modernization Act is a major victory for American music creators, music distributors, and the music listening public. This legislation, which modernizes our music copyright laws so music creators are fairly compensated for their works, finally brings our music laws into the digital age. “I appreciate the hard work of the many House and Senate Judiciary Committee Members who came together on this legislative package. Music has such an immense impact on all of our daily lives and with this important legislation headed to the President’s desk, we will help ensure the sustainability of the evolving American music industry for decades to come.” Key Provisions of the Hatch-Goodlatte Music Modernization Act include: Title I – Music Modernization Act • Reflects how modern digital music services operate by creating a blanket licensing system to quickly license and pay for musical work copyrights • Discourages music litigation that generates legal settlements in favor of simply ensuring that artists and copyright owners are paid in the first place without such litigation • Ends the flawed U.S. Copyright Office bulk notice of intent system that allows royalties to not be paid • Implements uniform rate setting standards to be used by the Copyright Royalty Board for all music services • Shifts the costs of the new licensing collective created by the bill to those who benefit from the collective - the licensees • Updates how certain rate court cases are assigned in the Southern District of New York Title II -- Compensating Legacy Artists for their Songs, Service, and Important Contributions to Society (CLASSICS) Act • Provides that performers who recorded songs before 1972 can finally be paid for their works (currently, only performers who recorded songs after 1972 are paid for their works) Title III -- Allocation for Music Producers (AMP) Act • Ensures that record producers, sound engineers, and other creative professionals receive compensation for their work
09.20.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today called on the Trump Administration to consult Congress immediately regarding the refugee ceiling for the coming year as required by law. Earlier this week, Department of State Secretary Mike Pompeo announced the fiscal year 2019 refugee ceiling without having first consulted with Congress. Congressman Goodlatte: “The law is clear: the Administration must consult with Congress prior to the President’s determination of the annual refugee ceiling. But this did not happen this year, and the Trump Administration has no excuse for not complying with their obligation under the law. There is a real question as to whether the President can even set a number of refugees that carries the weight of law unless it is done after an appropriate consultation with Congress. Leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committee have worked in good faith for weeks to schedule a consultation, and I call on the Trump Administration to provide the Committees with a consultation immediately. “The Administration’s lack of consultation underscores once again why this process is fundamentally flawed and why the refugee program is in need of reform. Congress, not the President, should set the annual refugee ceiling. The refugee program is currently the only immigration benefit program with an annual limit that is not determined by Congress. Immigration and Border Security Chairman Raul Labrador and I have introduced the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act, which has been approved by the House Judiciary Committee. This bill, among many other provisions, gives Congress the authority to set the refugee ceiling. The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act maintains our nation’s generosity toward those in need and prevents bad actors from gaming the system.” Background: In June 2017, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 2826). This bill reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year.
09.17.2018	Today Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement in honor of Constitution Day, which was first observed in 2005. Congressman Goodlatte: “The Constitution was signed by our nation’s founders on September 17th, 1787. This document, signed 231 years ago, embodied the commitment to protect our God-given liberties. As we reflect this Constitution Day, we must remember how this great nation began. “As a Member of Congress and Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, our Constitution is at the forefront of my mind every day. Now more than ever, it is essential that both Republican and Democratic Members of Congress be reminded of the Constitution’s provisions and the oaths all Members have taken to uphold the protections it contains for the sacred rights of every American. “I hope all Americans are inspired to reflect this Constitution Day on the remarkable document that continues to be the foundation of our government.”
09.06.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following statement during the House Judiciary Committee’s markup of the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018 (H.R. 5468). This bill, introduced by Regulatory Reform, Commercial, and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), eliminates bureaucratic delays and reforms litigation processes that will allow needed infrastructure projects to be completed in a timely manner. Congressman Goodlatte: America’s voters sent the 115th Congress to Washington to help turn around this Nation’s struggling economy. In large part, the voters wanted us to do that by making sure government finally got out of the way of recovery. The Judiciary Committee has been doing everything it can to fulfill that mandate. The Trump Administration has as well—and the gains Congress and the Administration have made to date in cutting red tape have translated directly into record lows in unemployment, higher wages, a booming stock market, and surging levels of consumer confidence and spending. The specific issue before us today—reform of America’s outdated, slow-moving permitting system—forms a big part of that picture. And the legislation before us today, the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018, would represent a very big step forward in achieving a federal permitting system that is both fair and efficient. Truth be told, the Committee made a big down payment on permit streamlining reform during the 114th Congress, helping in the enactment of title 41 of the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act. FAST-41 contained the biggest permit streamlining reforms in recent years. Its implementation is in full swing now, and it has already begun to clear the logjams that have stood in the way of permitting decisions for many of the Nation’s largest proposed construction projects. The Trump Administration has been working hard to implement FAST-41 as effectively as it can. The same week we held a legislative hearing on today’s bill, the Administration’s leading permitting agencies signed a Memorandum of Understanding committing to even more steps to reach quicker permitting decisions, including by agreeing to meet a two-year target for the issuance of decisions for large infrastructure projects. These reforms mean faster decisions—and faster delivery of jobs and investment for projects that win a permitting “green light.” But there remains much work to be done. Good as it is, FAST-41 is scheduled by its own terms to sunset by 2022 unless Congress extends it. Further, FAST-41 applied only to specific categories of the largest construction projects—those involving $200 million or more in investment. Many, many other projects still need permit streamlining reform. And, to help ensure FAST-41 is not allowed to expire, Congress should legislate permit streamlining reform applicable to all construction projects before FAST-41’s sunset arrives. The Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018, of which I am proud to be an original cosponsor, delivers precisely that reform. It establishes a strong incentive for permitting agencies to wrap up their permitting decisions—for “yea” or for “nay”—within two years. It also, like FAST-41, sets a prompt statute of limitations for lawsuits challenging those decisions, requires those suits to be based on matters actually presented to the permitting agencies during the administrative process, and assures that judges considering preliminary injunction requests in those cases will take into better account the potential economic and environmental harms of delaying project construction by injunctions. These are balanced, bipartisan and sorely needed reforms. I urge my colleagues to support this important piece of legislation.
09.06.2018	The purpose of the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018 is to reform America’s outdated, slow-moving permitting system. This legislation speeds up the decision-making process by establishing a strong incentive for permitting agencies to finalize their decisions within a 2-year deadline, leading to faster delivery of jobs and investment for projects that win a permitting “green light.” share: f t The House Judiciary Committee today approved the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018 (H.R. 5468) by a vote of 13-11. This legislation, sponsored by Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) and cosponsored by Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), eliminates bureaucratic delays and reforms litigation processes that will allow needed infrastructure projects to be completed in a timely manner. The state of our economy is always at the forefront of American minds. Continuing its stability and growth is one of the main responsibilities of this Congress. Americans want to see what Congress is doing to create American jobs, higher wages, a booming stock market, and keep levels of consumer confidence high. Making sure red tape and bureaucracy does not hinder further progress is an important part of having a thriving economy. The purpose of the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018 is to reform America’s outdated, slow-moving permitting system. This legislation speeds up the decision-making process by establishing a strong incentive for permitting agencies to finalize their decisions within a 2-year deadline, leading to faster delivery of jobs and investment for projects that win a permitting “green light.” This bill sets a prompt statute of limitations for lawsuits challenging those decisions and requires those suits to be based on matters actually presented to the permitting agencies during the administrative process. Furthermore, the bill assures that judges considering preliminary injunction requests in those cases will take into better account the potential economic and environmental harms of delaying project construction by injunctions. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) applauded today’s approval of the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act with the following statements: Chairman Goodlatte: “The federal permitting process must be streamlined in order to grow our economy and continue to create more American jobs. The Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018 will uncomplicate current infrastructure delays and untangle the web of red tape surrounding it. I thank my colleague, Subcommittee Chairman Marino for introducing this bill and am pleased the Committee has passed it today.” Subcommittee Chairman Marino: “After the recent hearing on this critical legislation, it was clear from the witness testimonies that there is a pressing need for permit streamlining. There is too much red tape and ongoing litigation that needlessly stands in the way of economic development and job growth by delaying permit approvals for vital projects. My legislation ensures there is an effective environmental review, but it sets a mandate that the review is timely and streamlined. I am pleased to take this next step towards sending this common-sense bill to the House floor.” Background: In April, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the Permitting Litigation Efficiency Act of 2018.
08.29.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte is currently accepting U.S. Service Academy nomination applications through September 14, 2018. All applicants should ensure that they have an open online application with the academies of their choice and that all necessary material is submitted or postmarked to the Lynchburg District Office by the September 14, 2018 deadline. If any applicants haven’t taken the SAT’s, haven’t received their updated scores, or have any further questions regarding the application process, please contact Service Academy Coordinator, Aaron Van Allen, in the Lynchburg District Office. Interviews will be conducted mid-October through mid-November. Final nominations will be made by the end of the calendar year. Those seeking additional information about the U.S. Service Academies and the nomination process can visit the Congressman’s website at Goodlatte.House.Gov.
08.21.2018	NOPEC would explicitly authorize the Justice Department to sue oil-producing cartel members for antitrust violations. It would clarify that neither sovereign immunity nor the “Act of State” doctrine should stop a court from hearing a case. share: f t Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today requested input from the Justice Department’s antitrust division on a proposal to hold OPEC members accountable for antitrust violations. In a letter to Assistant Attorney General Makan Delrahim, the lawmakers touted the bicameral, bipartisan support for the No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act, or NOPEC. “The average U.S. household spends over $2,000 a year on gasoline. That might be one thing if fuel prices were set by the free market. Unfortunately, however, prices are heavily influenced by the coordinated efforts of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which controls 82% of the world’s proven oil reserves,” the lawmakers wrote. “We believe this legislation is consistent with the administration’s goals of ensuring a fair and competitive global marketplace.” Grassley and Goodlatte note that both President Trump and Delrahim have expressed concerns about OPEC’s anticompetitive behavior. Full text of the letter follows: August 20, 2018 The Honorable Makan Delrahim Assistant Attorney General Antitrust Division United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Mr. Delrahim, We seek your views on the No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act (NOPEC). NOPEC would explicitly authorize the Justice Department to sue oil-producing cartel members for antitrust violations. It would clarify that neither sovereign immunity nor the “Act of State” doctrine should stop a court from hearing a case. Importantly, NOPEC would authorize DOJ alone to sue, ensuring that courts only hear cases that the Executive Branch affirmatively elects to bring after considering the foreign policy and national security implications. On June 13, 2018, following a hearing, the House Judiciary Committee passed NOPEC (H.R. 5904) by voice-vote. The Senate bill (S. 3214) was introduced on July 16, 2018. The bills were led by Representative Chabot and Senator Grassley, respectively, with strong bipartisan support. NOPEC is a necessary tool to ensure consumers in the United States are no longer beholden to artificially inflated gas prices. The average U.S. household spends over $2,000 a year on gasoline. That might be one thing if fuel prices were set by the free market. Unfortunately, however, prices are heavily influenced by the coordinated efforts of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which controls 82% of the world’s proven oil reserves. For example, in April 2018, OPEC and non-OPEC producers agreed to continue a deal they struck in 2016 limiting production. In 2016 oil was at $43 per barrel. It is now around $70. We believe this legislation is consistent with the administration’s goals of ensuring a fair and competitive global marketplace. In his 2011 book, Time to Get Tough, President Trump, then a private citizen, called for passage of NOPEC to bust OPEC’s cartel: “The way to fix this is to make sure that Congress passes and the president signs the ‘No Oil Producing and Exporting Cartels Act.’” More recently, President Trump expressed frustration with the OPEC cartel in a series of tweets, noting that “Oil prices are artificially Very High!” and that the “[t]he OPEC Monopoly” is “driving prices higher.” You too, have written that “there is simply no reason to treat cartel members differently based on their connection to a national government.” This legislation has strong bipartisan and bicameral support. Your additional support would help us to pass NOPEC and ensure a fair and competitive marketplace. We look forward to hearing from you. Sincerely, __________________________________ Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Judiciary Committee ________________________________ Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee
08.03.2018	Our investigation is about ensuring our justice system treats everyone equally under the law, a goal that those on both sides of the political spectrum should support. share: f t In an op-ed in today’s edition of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) writes about the House Judiciary and Oversight Committees’ joint investigation into decisions made by the Justice Department in 2016, explaining that it is not about politics – it is about how investigations of U.S. citizens are to be conducted fairly in order to protect civil liberties. Current Judiciary investigation isn’t about politics The Richmond Times-Dispatch By Bob Goodlatte August 3, 2018 In October 2017, the House Judiciary and Oversight committees launched an investigation into decisions made and not made by the Department of Justice and Federal Bureau of Investigation during the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Our investigation is not about former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton or President Donald Trump. It is about how investigations of U.S. citizens are to be conducted with impartiality and without regard to political affiliation in order to protect Americans’ civil liberties. As part of our investigation, we have aggressively used tools at our disposal, including the issuance of a subpoena, to get access to critical documents needed for our investigation. Some have wanted to go further and have called for the impeachment of Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. While obtaining the cooperation of the Justice Department and the FBI for document production and witness testimony has been frustrating, impeachment of Rosenstein is not the appropriate course of action and would do nothing to help speed up the production of documents. Our investigation must continue and we must have access to critical documents pertaining to the Justice Department and FBI’s handing of both the probe into Clinton’s use of a private email server to send and receive classified information, and its investigation of unverified claims of the Trump campaign’s collusion with Russia to interfere in the election. We are deeply concerned about political bias exhibited by top officials at our nation’s premier law enforcement agencies and how it led to these investigations being handled differently. For instance, the Justice Department and FBI did not treat Clinton like any other criminal suspect and deviated from standard investigative procedures. Throughout the course of the investigation, former FBI Director James Comey decided which DOJ procedures to follow and which not to follow, and he assumed the roles of investigator, prosecutor, and exonerator. The FBI allowed two Clinton employees who were witnesses to sit in on her interview. Before key witnesses were even interviewed, including Clinton herself, Director Comey drafted an exoneration memo. Comey and his team changed the term used to describe Clinton’s use of a private email server to send classified information from the standard that created culpability, “gross negligence,” to a made-up standard without any legal effect: “extreme carelessness.” This change ensured Clinton’s conduct did not violate the law, permitting Comey to manufacture a decision to not recommend charges, despite a legal standard of gross negligence. Moreover, the FBI intentionally obscured the fact that President Obama had communicated with Clinton’s private email address by editing Comey’s final press statement, replacing “the president” with “senior government official.” These are just a few examples of the FBI’s investigative irregularities in the Clinton investigation. Contrastingly, Comey treated the Russia investigation differently. He memorialized conversations with President Trump and leaked them to the press. Text messages exchanged between FBI employees Peter Strzok and Lisa Page reveal stunning political bias against President Trump. They went as far as to say “we’ll stop” Trump from becoming president. Indiscretions involving Strzok and Page were not handled appropriately at the time FBI management learned of them, resulting in their continued assignment as key players on the Clinton and Russia investigations. Further, the FBI was granted a court order to surveil a former Trump campaign adviser for allegations of collusion with Russia based on an unverified dossier compiled by a foreign national at the behest of the Clinton campaign and Democratic National Committee. The details about how the dossier was obtained were not fully disclosed to the judge who approved the government’s request to surveil a U.S. citizen. The actions taken by DOJ and the FBI during the 2016 election create a perception of political favoritism, cast a shadow over the proceedings of law enforcement agencies, and undermine Americans’ trust in key institutions. Our law enforcement agencies are afforded a vast amount of power to enforce the law, and with such power comes the expectation it will be used justly and fairly. Left unchecked, decisions motivated by political bias have the potential of permanently eroding public trust in our justice system. Our role in Congress is to follow the facts wherever they may lead. Our investigation is not about politics and it is certainly not about interfering with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. Our investigation is about ensuring our justice system treats everyone equally under the law, a goal that those on both sides of the political spectrum should support. It is imperative that DOJ and FBI decision-makers influenced by bias be held accountable for their actions, and we must do everything in our power to put in place stronger controls to prevent similar abuses from occurring in the future. Bob Goodlatte represents Virginia’s 6th Congressional District in the U.S. House, where he chairs the Judiciary Committee. Contact him through his website at https://goodlatte.house.gov/.
07.26.2018	The "Made in America" label is one to be worn with pride. share: f t On Monday, July 23, the White House hosted a Made in America Showcase where products produced in each state were highlighted. Capps Shoe Company, Inc., headquartered in Lynchburg, represented Virginia in the showcase. Their shoes, as well as the components used to make the shoes, are Made in America. Capps manufactures a variety of lines of shoes, including uniform footwear for every branch of the United States military. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.): “The ‘Made in America’ label is one to be worn with pride. It’s an acknowledgement of the ingenuity of American businesses and the hard work of the thousands of men and women who make these products in communities across the country. I’m pleased to have Capps represent Virginia and highlight the quality, American-made goods being manufactured in our state. Congress and the White House must continue to work together to advance policies, like the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, that will empower small businesses to innovate and expand, setting off a domino effect of economic growth, prosperity, and job creation.” Tom Capps, owner of Capps Shoe Company, Inc.: “Capps Shoe Company was very honored to be selected as the representative to the Made in America Showcase at the White House from the State of Virginia. Our Company takes great pride in manufacturing footwear for the men and women who serve in our armed forces. In addition, we fully support and appreciate President Trump’s favorable policies towards small business, including the removal of cumbersome regulations, as well as the tax cuts and incentives that have enabled us to make a substantial investment this year in new equipment. We look forward to expanding our business and adding jobs associated with that expansion.” Photo attached: Pictured are John Glover and Tom Capps with Capps Shoe Company, Inc.
07.25.2018	The Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity for students to be creative and develop their own app! share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R- Va.) released the following statement encouraging Sixth District middle school and high school students to participate in the fourth annual Congressional App Challenge: “Whether you are editing pictures, checking your steps, calling a ride, or crushing candy, apps provide citizens with tools, assistance, and entertainment on a daily basis. The Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity for students to be creative and develop their own app! Today’s youth do not know a world without such accessible technology and because of this, it is important that they explore STEM fields, like computer science education and coding. Technology will only continue to play a large role in their lives, so I invite all Sixth District middle and high school students to showcase their skills, ideas, and determination by partaking in this challenge. I look forward to seeing the unique apps that will come from this year’s participants.” Additional Information: In 2013, the U.S. House of Representatives established the Congressional App Challenge as a nationwide event that allows students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting a software application, or app, for tablet, mobile, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. The winning apps may be eligible for display in the U.S. Capitol Building. It is open to all middle school and high school students in the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia, and students may participate individually or in teams of up to four. The registration deadline is September 10, 2018 and all apps must be submitted by October 15, 2018. Interested students, educators, parents, or guardians may contact Congressman Goodlatte’s office at 202-225-5431 should they have any questions. More information, including the official rules and entry guidelines, may be found at www.congressionalappchallenge.us.
07.23.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released a statement today following reports of vandalism of Senator Mark Warner’s Roanoke office earlier this morning: “This morning’s incident is very troubling. While we do not yet know the motive behind this vandalism, there is no excuse for it whatsoever. If this incident was in fact politically motivated, I want to make it clear that there are appropriate ways to express your opinion and this is not one of them. I condemn, in the strongest terms, any destruction of property or act of violence directed towards an elected official. I hope law enforcement officials quickly apprehend the culprit.”
07.23.2018	Our nation’s founders would be dismayed at how eminent domain operates in present day America. share: f t The House of Representatives today approved by voice vote a bill that provides important limits on the government’s ability to seize private property using eminent domain, the Private Property Rights Protection Act (H.R. 1689). Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s House approval of the bill in the statement below: “Our nation’s founders would be dismayed at how eminent domain operates in present day America. Without this legislation, governments and municipalities could take over homes, farms, and small businesses to make way for shopping malls or other developments without legal repercussions. This legislation supports individual liberty by removing financial incentives for governments to inappropriately abuse eminent domain by taking property from one private person just to give it over to another private company and grants landowners legal remedies to protect their rights.” Background: This legislation incorporates aspects of the STOPP Act, introduced by Congressman Goodlatte during the 109th Congress. The Private Property Rights Protection Act has passed the House of Representatives in a bipartisan fashion three times previously. Summary of the Private Property Rights Protection Act: This bipartisan bill – introduced by Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) – deters a state or political subdivision of a state from using its eminent domain power to transfer private property to other private parties for the purpose of economic development. If a state does so, it will be ineligible for federal economic funds for two fiscal years following a judicial determination that the law has been violated. This bill also prohibits the federal government from using eminent domain for economic development purposes.
07.18.2018	We owe them a debt of gratitude for their service to our country. share: f t The House of Representatives today approved a resolution (H. Res. 990) expressing support for the officers and personnel who carry out the important mission of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s House approval of the resolution in the statement below: “Every day the brave men and women of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement keep our communities safe from dangerous criminals, including drug traffickers and sex traffickers, and seek to maintain the integrity of our immigration system. ICE officers have the dangerous mission of rescuing exploited children and victims of human trafficking, as well as making arrests of dangerous criminal aliens. ICE officers make our nation and communities safer by carrying out their duties. Calls to abolish ICE are irresponsible, are opposed by the American people, and are offensive to the thousands of men and women who enforce our nation’s immigration laws to keep us safe and protect the homeland. I applaud my colleagues for passing a resolution to express our support for ICE personnel. We owe them a debt of gratitude for their service to our country.” Background on ICE: Among its responsibilities, ICE is tasked with enforcing immigration laws to enhance homeland security and public safety. ICE employs more than 20,000 employees in more than 400 offices in the United States and 46 foreign countries. ICE keeps Americans safe from dangerous criminal aliens: • In fiscal year 2017, ICE Enforcement and Removal Operations arrested more than 127,000 criminal aliens. Those arrested were responsible for 76,000 dangerous drug offenses, 48,000 assault offenses, 11,000 weapon offenses, 5,000 sexual assault offenses, 2,000 kidnapping offenses, and 1,800 homicide offenses. • ICE Homeland Security Investigations made more than 4,800 gang-related arrests in fiscal year 2017. • In fiscal year 2017, ICE identified or rescued more than 900 sexually exploited children and 518 victims of human trafficking. ICE plays role in combating drug crisis facing U.S.: • In fiscal year 2017, ICE seized more than 980,000 pounds of narcotics, including thousands of pounds of the deadly drugs fueling the opioid crisis. • ICE seized nearly 2,400 pounds of fentanyl and 7,000 pounds of heroin, and logged nearly 90,000 investigative hours directed toward fentanyl in fiscal year 2017. ICE protects national security: • ICE was created in 2003 to better protect national security and public safety after the 9/11 terrorists exploited immigration laws to gain entry into the U.S. Many of the 9/11 hijackers committed visa violations. • ICE identifies dangerous individuals before they enter out country and locates them as they violate our immigration laws. VIDEO: Click here for Congressman Goodlatte’s remarks in support of H. Res. 900.
07.18.2018	The agricultural community has waited far too long for a workable guestworker program and it’s past time to enact a solution. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Representatives Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Henry Cuellar (D-Texas), Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.), Michael Conaway (R-Texas), and Ken Calvert (R-Calif.) today introduced the bipartisan AG and Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 6417). Representatives Mark Meadows (R-N.C.), chair of the House Freedom Caucus, Mark Walker (R-N.C.), chair of the Republican Study Committee, and John Katko (R-N.Y.), chair of the Tuesday Group, are also original cosponsors. The AG and Legal Workforce Act replaces the outdated and broken H-2A agricultural guestworker program with a new, workable agricultural guestworker program, known as the H-2C program, to ensure America’s farmers and ranchers have access to a reliable workforce. The H-2C program is available to both seasonal and year-round agricultural employers, provides a generous visa allocation to ensure labor needs are met, provides much needed flexibility to minimize disruptions in farm operations, eliminates regulatory burdens, and contains effective accountability and enforcement provisions. These provisions are supported by over 200 agricultural groups, including the American Farm Bureau Federation. The AG and Legal Workforce Act also requires all U.S. employers to use E-Verify, an effective web-based program that protects jobs for legal workers. The bill repeals the error-prone, paper-based I-9 system and replaces it with E-Verify. It contains a gradual phase-in for employers—starting with the largest employers first and eventually phasing in small businesses and agricultural employers. Below are statements on the introduction of the AG and Legal Workforce Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “The AG and Legal Workforce Act addresses two of the most pressing issues facing our immigration system: illegal immigration and the need for a workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. To address illegal immigration, the bill gradually rolls out E-Verify nation-wide to ensure jobs are protected for legal workers. E-Verify – a user-friendly, web-based program that quickly confirms 99% of work-eligible employees – takes less than two minutes to use and is an effective tool to combat illegal immigration. “Importantly, the AG and Legal Workforce Act also creates a new, workable agricultural guestworker program to ensure labor demands are met and crops get to market on time. The bill incorporates many of the comments and concerns I have heard from the agriculture community over the past several years. When not enough Americans can be found to fill jobs, the bill ensures that American farmers have access to a reliable workforce to fill positions needed to keep their farms afloat. The agricultural community has waited far too long for a workable guestworker program and it’s past time to enact a solution.” Congressman Peterson: “Farmers and ranchers across the country have repeatedly told us of their need for a reliable workforce. This will help to move that process forward and address an issue that is long overdue.” Congressman Smith: “Expanding the E-Verify system accomplishes two goals: it protects jobs for American workers and reduces illegal immigration by cutting off the jobs magnet. Requiring all U.S. employers to check the work authorization of new employees ensures that the jobs only go to Americans and legal workers. A recent Washington Post-ABC News poll shows that 82% of voters favor requiring business owners to check the immigration status of employees they hire. E-Verify receives the most public support of any proposed immigration reform.” Congressman Cuellar: “The Ag and Legal Workforce Act will help us meet important goals and offers vast improvements over the existing H-2A program. This bill will help address the shortage of workers that the agricultural industry has been experiencing over the years by ensuring that there is a steady flow of labor. It will also allow experienced agricultural workers who are currently undocumented in the U.S. to join and participate in the H-2C program and work here legally. I respectfully ask for bipartisan support and urge swift passage of the Ag and Legal Workforce Act for America’s hardworking agricultural producers and farm workers.” Congressman Newhouse: “The current labor shortage facing farmers must be improved by fixing the legal guest worker program. Farmers and our rural economy are being harmed by the current bureaucratic system that is not even available to all of agriculture. In order to continue domestic production of our own safe and affordable food in the U.S., Congress must pass legislation to reform our guest worker program and provide a stable, legal workforce for agriculture. I applaud the Speaker and Majority Leader for their commitment to bring this to the floor.” Congressman Conaway: “We need an ag worker program that respects our nation’s immigration laws and keeps American agriculture competitive. This bill takes important steps to cut red tape and institutes a flexible program that accounts for the different labor needs of various producers. Chairman Goodlatte has been very responsive to the concerns of the ag community, and I look forwarding to working with him to help shepherd this legislation through the House.” Congressman Calvert: “I commend Chairman Goodlatte and Representative Lamar Smith for their dedication and hard work on one of the toughest issues our Conference, and the Congress, faces: illegal immigration. The bill introduced today takes a monumental step towards ending the incentive that brings people here illegally: mandating the use of E-Verify. However, we need to be realistic about the labor needs of the agricultural industry and that is why this bill includes a workable guest labor program. I am grateful to the Chairman for the additional modifications that have gone even farther to accommodate agricultural labor needs. The time to act is now and I look forward to supporting this bill on the Floor.” Additional original cosponsors of the bill are: Representatives Ralph Abraham (R-La.), Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.), Andy Barr (R-Ky.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), James Comer (R-Ky.), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Rick Crawford (R-Ark.), John Curtis (R-Utah), Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.), Sean Duffy (R-Wis.), Neal Dunn (R-Fla.), Ron Estes (R-Kan.), John Faso (R-N.Y.), Mike Gallagher (R-Wis.), Andy Harris (R-Md.), Lynn Jenkins (R-Kan.), Walter Jones (R-N.C.), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Roger Marshall (R-Kan.), Devin Nunes (R-Calif.), Tom Reed (R-N.Y.), Dennis Ross (R-Fla.), David Rouzer (R-N.C.), Austin Scott (R-Ga.), Elise Stefanik (R-N.Y.), Steve Stivers (R-Ohio), Claudia Tenney (R-N.Y.), Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), Mac Thornberry (R-Texas), Fred Upton (R-Mich.), and Ted Yoho (R-Fla.). A summary of key provisions of the AG and Legal Workforce Act can be found HERE. Bill text can be found HERE.
07.18.2018	On Monday, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) held a field hearing on oversight of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Canine Training Center in Front Royal, Virginia. Chairman Goodlatte was joined at the hearing by Representative Barbara Comstock (R-Va.). The ATF’s National Canine Division trains canines to be able to sniff out explosives and small traces of ignitable liquid accelerants. Since 1990, ATF has trained over 900 explosives detection canines and over 250 accelerant detection canines and have been used by federal, state, local, and international law enforcement and fire investigation agencies. Recently, there have been efforts to move the National Canine Division from Front Royal to the National Center for Explosives Training and Research in Huntsville, Alabama. However, a study has found that the proposed move would cost nearly $40 million and would jeopardize the canines’ ability to detect explosives and keep the public safe. The Northern Virginia Daily: Goodlatte seeks to keep ATF canine facility local FRONT ROYAL – The fate of a federal training center in Warren County for bomb detection canines remains uncertain, but at least two members of Congress want it to stay in Virginia. Residents, local business representatives and elected leaders attended a field hearing held Monday by U.S. Rep. Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the House of Representatives Judiciary Committee, about the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives National Canine Division and its training facility on Cavalry Road. Specifically, Goodlatte, R-Roanoke, held the hearing in response to a recent push to move the training facility to the ATF National Center for Explosives Training and Research at the Redstone Arsenal in Huntsville, Alabama. U.S. Rep. Barbara Comstock, R-McLean, who represents the adjacent 10th House District, joined Goodlatte in asking questions of ATF Deputy Director Thomas Brandon. The ATF started training canines to serve federal, state and local law enforcement and fire agencies in 1995. The facility shares a 250-acre site with U.S. Customs and Border Protection. “We frequently make reference to the environment here as pristine and undoubtedly it’s a beautiful location,” Brandon testified. “But it is also no coincidence that our facility’s located in such a clean place. This is because, in order to imprint our dogs to detect minute amounts of ignitable liquids and explosives materials, it is necessary to train dogs in an environment that is entirely free of accelerant, explosive residue. “From start to finish, the trainers, handlers and staff are meticulous in the handling of these materials in order to maintain full control of the imprinting process,” Brandon went on to say. “ATF forensic chemists and canine experts employ a strict regimen to ensure canines are trained to detect target odor only and not secondary scents in the soil or otherwise.” Contamination affects the training, confidence and reliability of the canine, Brandon noted. Trace contaminants can prove problematic during training and render a canine unable to detect the target odor in another environment, he said. The relocation proposal originated in the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee whose chairman, Sen. Richard Shelby, a former Democrat turned Republican, represents Alabama. A report commissioned by the committee states that moving the division would cost an estimated $40 million and, moreover, the detonation of explosives and other activities on the site contaminates the area for canine training. “I cannot overemphasize how important it is to prevent cross-contamination when imprinting and training our canines,” Brandon said. The ATF has trained approximately 1,200 canines at the Front Royal facility for 102 law enforcement agencies in the United States and for 22 international partners, according to Brandon. Dogs trained at the Front Royal facility recently aided law enforcement agencies investigating several bomb explosions in Austin, Texas. Explosion sites often contain a mix of potentially critical evidence and blast debris, Brandon explained. “To a human eye it all appears the same but not to an ATF canine,” Brandon said. ATF canines deployed to Austin rapidly detected the difference between the two types of debris, allowing forensic laboratory examiners to focus on critical pieces of evidence and not waste time on extraneous material, Brandon said. ATF Special Agent Randall Dawkins from Dallas attended the hearing with Abel, a 6-year-old canine trained at the Front Royal facility that aided in the investigation of the Austin bombings. Former U.S. Rep. Frank Wolf, R-Vienna, helped secure the funds in the 1990s for the ATF to build its 21,000-square-foot training facility in Warren County, Brandon noted. Wolf secured funds around 2000 so the facility could add a kennel for up to 100 canines. Goodlatte asked Brandon to identify the benefits of operating the center in Front Royal. Brandon cited its proximity to the Washington, D.C. area and Dulles International Airport and a “synergy” that exists between the center and various law enforcement and intelligence agencies in the district. Brandon also mentioned as a benefit the goodwill shown by the residents of Warren County and Front Royal as well as about 120 businesses cultivated over 25 years. Goodlatte noted that the ATF division would need to restart such relationships if it relocated. Brandon concurred. The division also benefits through its co-location with the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Brandon noted. Comstock worked for Wolf when his district included the Front Royal area. The push to move the canine training center reminded her of an effort by the late U.S. Sen. Robert Byrd, D-West Virginia, to relocate the CIA to his home state. Comstock recalled working with Wolf to successfully keep the CIA in Virginia. “(There are) a lot of similarities here where there have been a lot of investments made here, very important relationships and expertise that you have here and … support of the community, and it really is sort of ‘if it ain’t broke why would we be trying to fix it,” Comstock said. “This has really been working well.” Full story can be found here.
07.18.2018	Earlier today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) was named a member of the Farm Bill Conference Committee by House Speaker Paul Ryan (statement below). Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “The Farm Bill is the most important piece of legislation affecting American agriculture. But it also has a big impact on Americans from all walks of life through nutrition and anti-hunger programs, including those that work with food banks in many Sixth District communities. I’m pleased to be named a conferee to work out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the Farm Bill. I look forward to delivering a strong, reform-minded bill to the President’s desk. This is an opportunity to refocus our nutrition programs on assisting the families and individuals who most need help putting food on the table, advance policies that give America’s farmers more certainty, and help ensure agriculture remains a vital part of the American economy.”
07.17.2018	– The House of Representatives today approved by voice vote a bill to encourage pro bono legal representation for survivors of domestic violence. The Pro bono Work to Empower and Represent Act of 2018 (S. 717), or the POWER Act, directs the Chief Judge in each judicial district to lead at least one public event per year – or at least two if the judicial district contains a tribal organization – to promote pro bono legal services to assist survivors of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking obtain justice. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s House approval of the bill in the statement below: “Domestic violence survivors often face a number of obstacles in obtaining justice and freedom from their abuser, whether it is fear of retribution or navigating a complex legal system. The POWER Act seeks to assist these brave survivors to obtain justice by encouraging lawyers in their communities to provide them with free legal representation so that they are able to get protective orders against an attacker. I thank Senator Sullivan for his leadership on this issue and urge further action so that this bill gets to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law.”
07.16.2018	Today’s summit was an opportunity to forcefully address this growing threat directly with President Putin. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement after the joint press conference following the U.S.-Russia Summit: “We have seen time and again that Russia will stop at nothing to interfere with and undermine our system of government. Just days ago, the Department of Justice announced more Russian nationals have been charged with attempting to interfere with the 2016 Presidential election. This is not a country that can be trusted. “U.S. intelligence agencies have confirmed Russia’s actions, and the evidence is plentiful. Today’s summit was an opportunity to forcefully address this growing threat directly with President Putin. I am dismayed that we did not see that.”
07.13.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement following the announcement that 12 Russian nationals have been charged with attempting to interfere with the 2016 Presidential election: “Today’s announcement from the Department of Justice again confirms that hostile foreign powers attempted to interfere in our elections. The Department of Justice should be commended for their efforts in rooting out these international criminals.”
07.12.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued a statement on an agreement reached with Lisa Page, legal counsel to former FBI Director Andrew McCabe, to have her appear for a transcribed interview on Friday, July 13, 2018 at 1:30 p.m., which will continue on Monday, July 16, 2018: “Lisa Page has finally agreed to appear before the House Judiciary and Oversight Committees for a transcribed interview tomorrow. This decision is long overdue. As part of the Committees’ joint investigation into decisions made by the Justice Department in 2016, we have sought her testimony for seven months, ultimately resulting in a subpoena demanding her presence. Lisa Page is a key witness in our investigation and we need to hear from her about her role related to certain decisions made by the Department and Bureau.” Background: • The House Judiciary and Oversight Committees first requested to interview Lisa Page in December 2017. Because she refused to commit to a date, Chairman Goodlatte subpoenaed her to appear before the Committees for a deposition. • Lisa Page defied a congressional subpoena by refusing to appear on Wednesday, July 11, 2018 for a deposition. • Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy issued an ultimatum to Ms. Page yesterday and made clear the House Judiciary Committee would initiate contempt proceedings if she refused to appear before the Committees.
07.12.2018	Mr. Strzok and others inside the FBI and DOJ turned our system of justice on its head. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following statement during the House Judiciary and Oversight Committees’ join hearing on “Oversight of FBI and DOJ Actions Surrounding the 2016 Election: Testimony by FBI Deputy Assistant Director Peter Strzok.” Chairman Goodlatte: Good morning. I wish this hearing were not necessary. Many children grow up wanting to become FBI agents, to catch bad guys and protect the American people. I have little doubt that our witness today has done that very thing during his many years serving as a FBI special agent. A special agent’s mission is a vitally important business to which we dedicate some of our best and brightest. However, this is precisely why our joint investigation is such an anomaly. We want the FBI and DOJ to be off the front pages, and to return to doing what they are best at – battling crime, terrorism, and espionage and protecting all of us from harm. We don’t want to read text message after text message dripping with bias against one of the two presidential candidates. We don’t enjoy finding compelling evidence that the FBI Director had predetermined the outcome of the case months in advance. But that is, thus far, what we have found. And these are only small pieces of the larger puzzle. The more information we acquire, the more interviews we conduct, and the more sources we contact, the more we learn. It has, unfortunately, taken a great deal of effort to get our Executive branch agencies to cooperate with our legitimate Congressional oversight. But we have made substantial progress. It is a credit to our investigative task force members and staff. For all those in this room who continue to disparage our investigation as mere conspiracy theory, and for all those who have chosen to ignore serious irregularities and potential crimes that we have uncovered, I say this: imagine if you were under investigation, and the investigator hated you, disparaged you in all manner of ways, and fraternized with another employee working on your case who also hated you, denigrated your supporters, and made crucial investigative decisions on how your case should be treated and eventually adjudicated. Would anyone sitting here today believe that this was an acceptable state of affairs, particularly at an agency whose motto is “Fidelity, Bravery, and Integrity”? I think not. To my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, please replace President Trump’s name with your own name in a small sample of things Mr. Strzok has said. Envision how you would feel if you found out that the chief agent investigating you as a Member of Congress was making these comments: “F Trump,” “Trump is a disaster,” “Just went to a southern Virginia Walmart. I could SMELL the Trump support” – or, perhaps most alarmingly and revealingly, “We’ll stop it” – referring directly to Mr. Trump’s candidacy for President. In fact, for those who think we are wasting time in this committee, suppose all of this had been said about candidate Obama before he was elected, or even more topical, about Hillary Clinton while she was running in the same election. Would we be where we are today? The only honest answer is an absolute affirmative, “YES”! Of course we would be here because every single Democrat would be protesting bias and discrimination against their preferred candidates by an out-of-control FBI and DOJ. So please stop saying this doesn’t matter and is only the product of conspiracy theory. Instead, the American people hope you will understand that this investigation goes to the very heart of our system of justice, one that is supposed to be fair and treat everyone equally under the law. Mr. Strzok and others inside the FBI and DOJ turned our system of justice on its head. That is why we’re here and why this matters. Yesterday, Chairman Gowdy and I received a letter from my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, raising numerous objections about the nature of our investigation. These claims are largely spurious. I have responded publicly to them before. However, these claims are also revealing. The final line of that letter states that our Democratic colleagues will “undertake efforts to protect [their] rights.” I implore my friends not to continue their efforts to undermine this investigation. And as for their “rights,” I submit the rights that should concern us are the rights of the American people – namely, to know the facts; to trust that their law enforcement agencies are operating fairly and justly; and to feel secure in the knowledge that no one is above the law. VIDEO: Goodlatte’s Opening Statement VIDEO: Goodlatte Questions Peter Strzok
07.11.2018	Lisa Page, legal counsel to former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, defied a congressional subpoena issued by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.). She is a key witness in the House Judiciary and Oversight Committees’ investigation into decisions made by the Justice Department in 2016. Her attorney provided a litany of excuses for Ms. Page’s failure to appear today, but none of the excuses hold water. Excuse: Lisa Page was not provided sufficient notice to prepare for the deposition. Reality: On December 19, 2017, Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy sent a letter to the Justice Department requesting to interview Lisa Page. That’s seven months ago. Another letter was sent in April 2018. Committee staff have been in direct contact with Ms. Page’s attorney since June 2018 and she and her attorney refused to commit to a date for an interview. Consequently, Chairman Goodlatte subpoenaed Lisa Page. Excuse: The Committees would be asking Lisa Page about materials she has not yet reviewed. Reality: Many of the documents Lisa Page would be asked about are documents and communications that she created. Additionally, these very same materials were provided to Ms. Page during her interview with the Inspector General. Despite being aware of the Committees’ request for a transcribed interview for seven months, Ms. Page and her attorney waited until yesterday afternoon to go to the FBI to review documents, just hours before her scheduled deposition. In fact, it is the Committee’s understanding that Ms. Page never requested access to view the documents until the FBI reached out to her. Excuse: The scope of the interview was too broad for Lisa Page, and should have been narrowed. Reality: The scope covers Ms. Page’s involvement in the matters pertaining to the Committees’ investigation into decisions made by the Justice Department and the FBI in 2016, and her role related to those decisions. That was clearly communicated to Ms. Page. Ms. Page was involved in both the Mid-Year Exam and Russia investigations, and is a key fact witness for the Committee.
07.10.2018	It appears that Lisa Page has something to hide. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after Lisa Page decided to defy the Committee’s subpoena: “It appears that Lisa Page has something to hide. She plans to blatantly defy a congressional subpoena by refusing to appear for her deposition. She has known for months that the House Judiciary Committee has sought her testimony as part of our joint investigation with the Oversight Committee into decisions made by the Justice Department in 2016, and she has no excuse for her failure to appear. Lisa Page is a key witness, and it is critical that she come before our committees to answer questions as part of our investigation. “We will use all tools at our disposal to obtain her testimony. Americans across the country are alarmed at the bias exhibited by top officials at the Justice Department and FBI, and it is imperative Congress conduct vigorous oversight to ensure that never happens again.”
07.09.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement upon the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh by President Donald Trump to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States: “The next Supreme Court Justice will help shape the legal landscape of our nation for decades to come, and it is vital that the Senate confirm an eminently qualified, honorable jurist who will strictly uphold the original intent of our Constitution, will respect the proper role of the courts in our federal system, and who will fairly judge cases before the highest court in the land. “With President Trump's nomination of Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court, he has chosen an individual with a distinguished career on the federal bench who has proven that he respects the Constitution’s place in our system of government and is committed to upholding the principles enumerated in our nation's most sacred document. I urge the Senate to act swiftly on Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination.”
06.28.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following statement during the Committee’s hearing on “Oversight of FBI and DOJ Actions Surrounding the 2016 Election.” Chairman Goodlatte: The Church Committee was established on a bipartisan basis and chaired by Democratic Senator Frank Church in 1975 to review CIA, FBI, and NSA surveillance abuses, including the improper surveillance of an American icon, Martin Luther King, Jr., and other prominent individuals. The Committee also conducted a review of the insidious monitoring of political activities of citizens exercising their First Amendment rights. The Church Committee’s findings resulted in passage three years later of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. FISA attempts to balance the need for secrecy in conducting surveillance against foreign agents with the protection of Americans’ time-honored civil liberties. This history shows we have already found ourselves, once before, in a situation where the FBI and other intelligence agencies violated their oaths to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. In monitoring citizens’ political activity, the agencies exercised their responsibilities in a manner unworthy of U.S. officials. The abuses of that bygone era, and really of any era, often happen because of power – power to influence political currents, power to collect sensitive information, and power to wield surveillance tools in improper ways to achieve improper purposes. That power can and has been abused in the past, by individuals at the highest and lowest levels of our government. Fortunately, the power of our intelligence agencies is overwhelmingly used to protect us from those wishing to do our country harm. That is the conundrum. We need our intelligence agencies to have the necessary tools and techniques to safeguard our nation, and we have to be constantly vigilant to ensure these tools are not manipulated by unscrupulous actors. The recent Inspector General’s report revealed bias in the top echelons of the FBI during a hotly-contested presidential election. It revealed that FBI agents, lawyers, and analysts held profound biases against then-candidate Donald Trump and in favor of his opponent, Hillary Clinton. While those on the other side of the aisle continue to exclaim that these biases are only personal political predilections that had no effect on the operation of one of the biggest investigations in our nation’s history, I wonder whether these same Members would say the same if text messages had turned up to the tune of “Hillary is a disaster,” or “We’ll stop” her, or cursing her with all manner of expletives, or smugly stating that particular parts of the country “smell of Hillary supporters.” These types of comments were originating from people who were the fact-finders in the investigation. These profoundly inappropriate comments were coming from the individuals who were making decisions on whether to provide immunity to people who had already lied to investigators, and whether subjects of an investigation could sit in on interviews with other subjects of the same investigation. These were individuals who were plainly in positions of great power with the opportunity to place greater, lesser, or even no emphasis on certain facts or interpretations of law. These actions led to complete legal exoneration of everyone involved in sending Top Secret emails over personal servers and unsecured emails- and setting up a server for the explicit purpose of doing this. These actions even led to exposing at least one classified email to a foreign party that risked serious damage to our national security. Amazingly, considering their overwhelming biases, these people were also the very same people who were assigned to investigate the man that they hated: then-candidate Donald Trump. My reference to the Church Committee is apropos because it not only reviewed abuses by individuals, including the FBI Director himself, but focused in on surveillance abuses. Here, we now face the same allegations, yet in manner that goes to the heart of our democracy. It is right out of a novel with salacious, unverified dossiers, reports of informants that appear more like spies for the U.S. government, and application of the aforementioned surveillance powers to collect on a U.S. person once associated with President Trump’s political campaign. But it’s not a novel; it is real life and we are here today to understand a little bit more about why we now must review how our intelligence and law enforcement agencies engaged in activity that appears not only wrong, but potentially illegal. All of which brings me to this body’s Constitutional oversight mandate and responsibilities. Our responsibility to the American people is to conduct robust oversight of agencies within this Committee’s jurisdiction, to ensure that taxpayer-funded agencies operate lawfully. Our oversight, though, is only as good as the information we are provided. This Committee’s oversight has been hampered by both the FBI and DOJ’s lack of consistent and vigorous production of the documents we need to hold the agencies accountable. While this production has significantly improved recently, it has felt like pulling teeth much of the time to obtain and review relevant documents. Moreover, we just recently learned that some documents the Inspector General received to conduct his investigation of the 2016 election have been interpreted by the Department of Justice to fall outside the first subpoena I ever issued as Chairman of this Committee. Shockingly, emails and communications of DOJ officials have not been produced at all. Therefore, we have not received any emails between prosecutors working the Clinton case. Said differently, we are not receiving and have not received potentially enlightening communications between prosecutors themselves, between prosecutors and DOJ management including former Attorney General Lynch, or even communications between DOJ officials and those with the Obama White House. This is unacceptable, particularly when we had long before issuing the subpoena requested all documents provided to the Inspector General other than certain ones pertaining to grand jury material. The Department of Justice and the FBI are not mentioned in the U.S. Constitution. The President and Congress are. Our Constitutional oversight necessitates that institutions like the FBI and DOJ yield to Congress’ constitutional mandate. This is non-negotiable because we must assure the American people that the agencies under our jurisdiction operate fairly, treating all equally under the law. This hearing emphasizes the importance of transparency in helping to regain both the perception and reality of impartiality of our law enforcement system. Damage to the FBI and DOJ’s reputations is not something any of us desire. But now that both agencies have been on the front pages for so long, we must all work to ensure that those stories are able to focus once again on the great men and women performing admirable and often heroic jobs to protect our country. We expect to hear today how the FBI and DOJ will hold people accountable and prevent this from happening again. Thank you and I look forward to hearing from both Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Director Wray. Click here for Chairman Goodlatte’s opening statement at the House Judiciary Committee hearing earlier today.
06.27.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement upon the announcement that Supreme Court Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy will retire: “I commend Justice Kennedy for his many years of distinguished service. During his 30 years on the Supreme Court of the United States, Justice Kennedy often added a unique perspective to decisions in which he was a pivotal vote. “I look forward to President Trump’s nomination to fill this new vacancy on the high court. I believe the next justice to the Supreme Court should be one who will uphold the original meaning of the Constitution, judge cases fairly before the Court, and one that has true respect for the Constitution’s place in our system of government and the limited powers it grants.”
06.27.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after the House of Representatives failed to advance two immigration bills, the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760) and the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act (H.R. 6136): “Immigration reform is a very complicated, difficult, and emotional issue. While the failure of these two bills is disappointing, what is most disappointing is that not a single Democratic member voted for either bill. Despite the bills not achieving a majority of votes individually, between the two votes, 223 Republicans voted for legislation to secure our borders, restore the rule of law, reduce chain migration, and provide a solution for the DACA problem. I am very encouraged that we have 223 Republicans willing to do the right thing and now we need to do the hard work of finding the right combination of these two bills that can get a majority of votes in the House.”
06.26.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold President Trump’s executive order on “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States:” “President Trump was right to hit pause on admitting foreign nationals and refugees from countries where adequate security screening cannot occur, and the Supreme Court made the right decision to uphold the Trump Administration’s constitutional and legal executive order. While I have long been opposed to the abuse of executive power, especially with regard to our nation’s immigration laws, President Trump clearly has the authority under the law and the Constitution to limit immigration when it is in our nation’s national security interest to do so. I’m pleased the Supreme Court has cut through the hyperbolic rhetoric surrounding this executive order and has upheld it.”
06.26.2018	Since the bill’s introduction, it has been improved to include a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers, a returning worker exemption for the H-2B guestworker program, and the requirement that all U.S. employers use E-Verify to protect jobs for legal workers. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), and Congressman Jeff Denham (R-Calif.) recently introduced the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2018 (H.R. 6136), a consensus bill that is the product of negotiations between Republicans of all perspectives and addresses the four pillars for immigration reform outlined by President Donald Trump. Since the bill’s introduction, it has been improved to include a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers, a returning worker exemption for the H-2B guestworker program, and the requirement that all U.S. employers use E-Verify to protect jobs for legal workers. Below are key provisions of the bill. • Secures the Border: The bill provides nearly $25 billion in advance appropriations to build a wall along the Southern border. It also combats visa overstays by ensuring the biometric entry-exit program is completed so that we know whether or not those on temporary visas leave the U.S. • Contains More Tools to Prevent Illegal Immigration: The bill ends “catch and release,” increases the standard for credible fear to root out fraudulent claims, ensures unaccompanied alien children are returned safely and quickly to their home country, and provides the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with the ability to detain dangerous criminal aliens, among other provisions. • Modernizes Our Immigration System: The bill ends the visa lottery, protects the nuclear family while reducing chain migration, reduces overall immigration numbers over the long term, and begins a shift to a merit-based system. It also shifts to a first-in-line visa system by eliminating the per-country cap on employment-based green cards and by increasing the cap on family-sponsored green cards from 7 to 15%. • Provides a Legislative Solution for DACA: The legislation allows the DACA population – children who came to the U.S. as minors and grew up here – an opportunity to earn a legal status. If these individuals meet certain requirements they will be eligible for a 6-year renewable legal status, allowing them to work here and travel abroad. • Creates a New Merit-Based Green Card Program that Encourages Advancement: o The bill establishes a new, merit-based green card program – without increasing legal immigration – based on applicants earning points for skills, education, vocational training, work experience, English language proficiency, and military service. More points are awarded for each achievement. Once applicants meet the threshold number of points for eligibility, they will qualify for a green card, although those with the highest points each year will earn their green cards more quickly. o Those eligible include children of E1, E2, H1B, and L workers who were brought by their parents lawfully into the U.S. as minors and have been continuously in the U.S. for 10 years before the date of enactment AND any individual granted a “contingent non-immigrant status” due to DACA eligibility may apply. o Importantly, the bill also requires the border wall to be funded before new visas are available under the new merit-based program. • Keeps Families Together: o The legislation fixes a court decision, the Flores settlement, to ensure that children who are apprehended at the border with their parents are not separated from their parent or legal guardian while the parents are in DHS custody. o It also addresses family separation in light of the Zero Tolerance prosecution initiative by mandating that DHS, not the Department of Justice, maintain the custody of those charged with illegal entry along with their children. This would only apply to those who enter the country with children and would not permit those charged with felonies or any other criminal activity to be detained along with children. The bill allocates funding for family detention space to facilitate this requirement. o To enhance the safety of children, the bill prohibits releasing a child to any individual other than a parent or legal guardian. • Creates a New, Workable Ag Guestworker Program: o The current H-2A program is broken. It’s expensive, flawed, and plagued with red tape. The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act replaces the H-2A program with a new, reliable, efficient, and fair program, known as H-2C, to ensure that farmers and ranchers have access to a legal, stable supply of workers for seasonal as well as year-round work. o The bill provides for a generous cap and current unlawful farmworkers and H-2A workers won’t count against the cap. Should the cap ever be reached, there is an automatic escalator to increase the cap on non-meat and poultry processing visas. o The bill allows experienced unauthorized workers to participate in the program and it provides flexible visa term lengths and touchback requirements to ensure that farm operations are not adversely disrupted. o It also streamlines the program, ends excessive regulatory burdens – like housing and transportation mandates – and provides reasonable wage requirements. o The bill also contains effective enforcement measures to ensure compliance with the program and its requirements. And it protects U.S. taxpayers by prohibiting H-2C workers from getting federal public benefits like Obamacare subsidies. • Contains a Returning Worker Exemption for H-2B Visas: The bill now provides that any guestworker counted against the H-2B cap during either of the prior two fiscal years is not counted against the cap for the current fiscal year. The H-2B guestworker program is used by American employers to hire foreign workers for temporary and seasonal work, such as forestry, seafood processing, and other industries. • Requires Employers to Use E-Verify: o E-Verify is a web-based program that discourages illegal immigration by ensuring jobs are made available to those authorized to work in the United States. o E-Verify is free, quick, and easy to use. It quickly confirms 99% of work eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Nearly 800,000 American employers currently use E-Verify. o The revised Border Security and Immigration Reform Act contains the Legal Workforce Act, which gradually phases in employers of all size to use this web-based program.
06.21.2018	Congress has a unique opportunity to act before the country ends up with another large population who crossed the border illegally as children. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following statement on the House floor in support of the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill – introduced in January by Chairman Goodlatte, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) – bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. VIDEO: Click here to watch the floor statement. Chairman Goodlatte: I introduced H.R. 4760 along with Representatives Michael McCaul, Martha McSally, and Raúl Labrador to provide an equitable and permanent legal status for unlawful aliens who grew up in America after their parents brought them here as children. Just as importantly, we want to strengthen our borders, close gaping loopholes, curtail endemic fraud, and enhance interior immigration enforcement so that our nation won’t face the same dilemma in a few years. President Trump did the right thing and tried to end President Obama’s blatantly unconstitutional DACA program. As a federal court ruled in enjoining DACA’s sister program, “[DHS] cannot . . . enact a program whereby it not only ignores the dictates of Congress, but actively acts to thwart them … The DHS Secretary is not just rewriting the laws; he is creating them from scratch.” President Trump also did the right thing by immediately turning to us asking Congress to fix the problem. As he asked for, H.R. 4760 solves the DACA conundrum. It provides DACA beneficiaries with an indefinitely-renewable legal nonimmigrant status allowing them to live and work in the U.S. without worry and travel abroad as they choose. It also allows them to receive green cards on the same terms as any other intending immigrant around the world. As I indicated, the bill will help ensure that the distressing DACA dilemma does not recur. It ends “catch and release” at the border, battles asylum fraud, and ensures that unaccompanied minors caught at the border will be treated equally regardless of their home country. It will ensure that the law no longer tempts minors and their parents to make the dangerous illicit journey to the U.S. and to line the pockets of cancerous cartels with hundreds of millions of dollars. The bill will also take away the other magnet that draws millions of persons to come to the U.S. illegally – the jobs magnet. Through the inclusion of Representative Lamar Smith’s Legal Workforce Act, it makes E-Verify mandatory. After two decades of constant improvement, E-Verify has become an extremely effective, reliable, and easy way for employers to ensure that they have hired a legal workforce. Three quarters of a million employers currently use E-Verify, which almost instantaneously confirms the work eligibility of new hires 99 percent of the time. The bill will allow DHS to deport members of MS-13 and other virulent criminal gangs and allow it to detain dangerous aliens who cannot be removed. It will combat the public safety menace of sanctuary cities in multiple ways, including by allowing the Justice Department to withhold from them law enforcement grants. The bill makes significant reforms to our legal immigration system. It puts an end to extended family chain migration and terminates the diversity visa green card lottery, which awards green cards at random to people with no ties to the U.S. or any particular skills. In addition, it replaces the dysfunctional H-2A agricultural guestworker program. The H-2A program is slow, bureaucratic, and frustrating – often forcing growers to leave crops to rot in the fields. They also must pay an artificially inflated wage rate along with providing free housing and transportation. In doing the right thing, H-2A users are almost always repaid by being placed at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. The bill provides growers with streamlined access to guestworkers when sufficient American labor cannot be found. It finally provides dairies and food processors with year-round labor needs with access to a guestworker program. It avoids the pitfalls of the H-2A program and it will remain at its core a true guestworker program. As growers learned the hard way after the 1986 amnesty, illegal farmworkers will leave en mass and flock to the cities when provided with permanent residence. The Agricultural Guestworker Act contained in this bill is supported by the American Farm Bureau Federation, the dairy industry, and over 200 distinct agricultural organizations from across the United States. Following introduction of this legislation, I have sat down with my colleagues for months to learn of any concerns and to strive to improve the bill. The product of this intensive work is better legislation. While I am disappointed that the rule did not allow me to include all the improvements made possible by the input of so many Members, I am gratified that I could include the refinements to the H-2C program. To give just one example, the bill now clarifies that DHS will issue documents to unlawful alien farmworkers who have been sponsored by growers to join the program authorizing them to return to the U.S. without the need for visas after completing their initial touchbacks. This will create certainty for growers, allowing them to receive preapproval of their H-2C petitions for current workers before they leave the country and precertification of the workers’ admission back into the U.S. before they leave. Congress has a unique opportunity to act before the country ends up with another large population who crossed the border illegally as children. Let’s take this historic moment to come together and support vital legislation that provides common-sense, reasonable solutions. I urge my colleagues to join President Trump and support H.R. 4760. More details on the Securing America’s Future Act can be found HERE.
06.21.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today in light of a report by the Associated Press regarding claims of abuse at the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center in Staunton: “The claims made by juveniles held at the Shenandoah Valley Juvenile Center are alarming, and certainly merit a thorough investigation to uncover the truth. I take claims of abuse seriously, and I expect that the relevant local, state, and federal entities will take them seriously as well. Until today’s news report, I was not aware of these complaints. My office has reached out to the facility to learn more about this situation, and I will continue to closely follow the legal proceedings as well as any resulting actions.”
06.21.2018	The Court’s reversal of Quill’s physical presence principle is a nightmare for American businesses and small online sellers. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Representative Anna G. Eshoo (D-Calif.), a senior member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, and Representative Jim Sensenbrenner, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in the case of South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. The Court ruled 5-4 to overturn the long-standing physical presence rule of Quill Corp. v. North Dakota. With today’s decision the Court, for the first time, allows states to extend their authority beyond their borders to require out-of-state sellers to collect taxes on online sales. “The Court’s reversal of Quill’s physical presence principle is a nightmare for American businesses and small online sellers, who will now have to comply with the different tax rates and rules of, and be subject to audits by, over 10,000 taxing jurisdictions across the U.S. in which they have no say at the ballot box or representation in state and local government. “This decision will have broad ramifications well beyond the sales tax arena. The physical presence rule the Court overturned today preserved the political accountability that is essential to deter complex compliance burdens for small businesses. Today’s decision will stifle online commerce, close businesses, and ultimately harm consumers. “The dominant issues under debate in this case involved policy, not law. The briefs filed with the Court were filled with discussions of economics, the efficacy of software, trends in the retail industry, and myriad other non-legal questions. Congress is the appropriate institution to resolve these policy questions, not the Supreme Court.”
06.19.2018	We have an historic opportunity to pass the most significant border security and immigration reform legislation in over a decade. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congressman Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), and Congressman Jeff Denham (R-Calif.) today unveiled the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2018 (H.R. 6136), a consensus bill that is the product of negotiations between Republicans of all perspectives and addresses the four pillars for immigration reform outlined by President Donald Trump. The consensus legislation provides robust border security and the funding needed to build a wall and infrastructure along the Southern border, contains more tools to help prevent illegal immigration and human smuggling, modernizes the United States’ immigration system, provides a legislative solution for those who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children without creating a special pathway to citizenship, creates a new merit-based immigration program that rewards those with the skills, education and work experience the U.S. needs, and remedies current law and court decisions to keep children and parents together as much as possible when they are apprehended. Below is a statement from Chairman Goodlatte on the introduction of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act: “For months, House Republicans from all perspectives have been working hard to find common ground on a bill to secure the border, restore the rule of law, and provide a legislative solution for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Our hard work has resulted in today’s introduction of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. This bill brings our immigration system into the 21st century, contains a number of tools to enhance border security, prevents illegal immigration, and combats fraud in our immigration system. “It also provides those who were brought to the U.S. illegally as children an opportunity to earn a legal status. Importantly, the bill creates a new, merit-based system that is directly tied to the funding for the border wall, and the bill transitions some green card categories from extended family-based purposes to programs that reward those with the skills, work experience and education needed in the U.S. If Congress down the road seeks to rescind the funding for the border wall, new visas will not be allocated. “We have an historic opportunity to pass the most significant border security and immigration reform legislation in over a decade, and I urge my colleagues in the House to support this bill when it is voted on later this week.” Below are key components of the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. Bill text can be found HERE. • Secures the Border: The bill provides nearly $25 billion in advance appropriations to build a wall along the Southern border. It also combats visa overstays by ensuring the biometric entry-exit program is completed so that we know whether or not those on temporary visas leave the U.S. • Contains More Tools to Prevent Illegal Immigration: The bill ends “catch and release,” increases the standard for credible fear to root out fraudulent claims, ensures unaccompanied alien children are returned safely and quickly to their home country, and provides the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with the ability to detain dangerous criminal aliens, among their provisions. • Modernizes Our Immigration System: The bill ends the visa lottery, protects the nuclear family while reducing chain migration, reduces overall immigration numbers over the long term, and begins a shift to a merit-based system. It also shifts to a first-in-line visa system by eliminating the per-country cap on employment-based green cards and by increasing the cap on family-sponsored green cards from 7 to 15%. • Provides a Legislative Solution for DACA: o The legislation allows the DACA population – children who came to the U.S. as minors and grew up here – an opportunity to earn a legal status. If these individuals meet certain requirements they will be eligible for a 6-year renewable legal status, allowing them to work here and travel abroad. o Once they receive that status, they can use existing paths available to attempt to earn green cards, including through a new merit-based program that allows them (and others brought to the U.S. while children by their parents on H-1B and other visas) to earn green cards based on achieving educational degrees, English proficiency, vocational training and skills, work experience, and military service. o The bill also requires the border wall to be funded before new visas are available under the new merit-based program. • Keeps Families Together: o The legislation fixes a court decision, the Flores settlement, to ensure that children who are apprehended at the border with their parents are not separated from their parent or legal guardian while in DHS custody. o It also addresses family separation in light of the Zero Tolerance prosecution initiative by mandating that DHS, not the Department of Justice, maintain the custody of aliens charged with illegal entry along with their children. This would only apply to those who enter the country with children and would not permit those charged with felonies or any other criminal activity to be detained along with children. The bill allocates funding for family detention space to facilitate this requirement. o To enhance the safety of children, the bill prohibits releasing a child to any individual other than a parent or legal guardian.
06.19.2018	This hearing is a crucial step toward repairing law enforcement’s reputation as an impartial fact finder and seeker of truth. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following statement during the House Judiciary Committee and Oversight and Government Reform Committee's joint hearing on “Oversight of the FBI and DOJ Actions in Advance of the 2016 Elections.” VIDEO: Chairman Goodlatte Opening Statement VIDEO: Chairman Goodlatte Questions Inspector General Horowitz Chairman Goodlatte: We are here, following the release of Inspector General Horowitz’s highly-anticipated report, to shed light on decisions that have terribly tarnished the reputation of our chief law enforcement institutions and undermined Americans’ confidence in their justice system. Today we will examine irregularities and improprieties in the FBI and DOJ’s handling of two of the most sensitive investigations in the history of our country. And it all began with Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified emails. The IG’s report has spawned more questions and more theories about the FBI and DOJ’s handling of the Clinton investigation. It confirms that Mrs. Clinton did, in fact, receive special treatment from the Obama Justice Department and FBI during their investigation – “Mid-Year Exam,” as it was known internally. The American people often get tired of the political infighting in Washington, D.C. So I want to ask a simple question, “Why should Americans care about what we are talking about here today?” I propose a simple yet weighty answer: because our Constitution guarantees equality under the law. Americans expect that those with power and influence will not receive special treatment. But as the IG report describes, DOJ and FBI did not treat Mrs. Clinton like any other criminal suspect and did not follow standard investigative procedures in exonerating her. The IG found many issues with this particular investigation, as well as serious institutional issues. And while only telling half the story – we are still awaiting conclusions with respect to allegations of surveillance abuse inside the FBI – the IG identified various corrective actions, including recommending five additional FBI employees for further review and possible disciplinary consideration. In a nutshell, the IG report details unusual actions taken by law enforcement officials who were sworn to uphold the Constitution impartially and fairly. They failed in that duty. Again, why should Americans care? The Department of Justice and the FBI are not mentioned in the U.S. Constitution. Who is mentioned in the Constitution? The President and Congress. Yet a handful of individuals in these law enforcement institutions placed the constitutional institution of the Presidency under attack during a heated election, and mocked Congress’s legitimate, constitutionally-mandated oversight. Equality under the law is a core American value. Our laws are to be administered and enforced with impartiality. The IG report confirms that this was not the case in the Clinton investigation. To quote from the report concerning certain individuals assigned to the investigation, “We found that the conduct of these five FBI employees brought discredit to themselves, sowed doubt about the FBI’s handling of the Midyear investigation, and impacted the reputation of the FBI…Moreover, the damage caused by their actions extends far beyond the scope of the Midyear investigation and goes to the heart of the FBI’s reputation for neutral fact-finding and political independence.” I am only repeating what the IG found – improprieties by the FBI and DOJ caused such far-reaching damage going “to the heart” of what is expected from agencies whose responsibility was to remain “fair administrators of justice.” This hearing and the IG’s report underscores the importance of the ongoing joint investigation by the House Judiciary Committee and House Oversight Committee into decisions made by the DOJ and FBI in 2016. To date, the Committees have interviewed several key witnesses and reviewed thousands of documents. While we appreciate the IG and his staff for a very detailed investigation, it is critical for the public to also hear what was not included in the report due to the IG’s refusal to question “whether a particular decision by the FBI and DOJ was the most effective choice.” Here is what has been observed by these Committees: • Questionable interpretation by DOJ and FBI of the law surrounding mishandling of classified information. • Foreign actors obtained access to some of Mrs. Clinton’s emails – including at least one email classified “SECRET.” • Director Comey appeared to have predetermined the exoneration of Mrs. Clinton at least two months before the investigation concluded. • The Department of Justice determined any charge of “gross negligence” was off the table, reading an “intent” standard into the law that does not exist. • Grotesque statements against then-candidate Donald Trump were made by top FBI officials, and they went so far as to say “we’ll stop” Trump from becoming President. • Indiscretions involving Mr. Strzok and Ms. Page were not handled appropriately at the time FBI management learned of them, resulting in their continued assignment as key players on the Clinton Investigation and the Mueller Russia investigation. • Mr. McCabe appears to have not been forthright with Congress during an interview conducted by the Committees concerning his knowledge of meetings and actions taken by Mr. McCabe and his team. • The FBI’s top counterintelligence official was unaware of possible evidence indicating Mrs. Clinton’s private email server had been penetrated by a foreign adversary, and unaware of relevant legal process obtained during the investigation. • Documents show significant criticism of Mr. Comey expressed by multiple current and former FBI agents. • The FBI intentionally obscured the fact President Obama had communicated with Mrs. Clinton’s private email address by editing Mr. Comey’s final press statement, replacing “the President” with the euphemism “senior government official.” • Finally, top FBI officials, including Mr. McCabe and Mr. Priestap, through their wives, had close ties to Democrat and Clinton-affiliated entities, and should have seemingly been recused from the Clinton investigation. Public confidence in the impartiality of our law enforcement system is critical to ensure all are treated equally under the law. Fallout from the Clinton investigation, however, gives the impression those with money and influence are given lighter treatment than the so-called common person. Short-term damage to the FBI and DOJ’s reputations is apparent; however, the IG and Congress’ investigations will help to understand why certain deficiencies occurred during one of the most high profile investigations in this nation’s history. This hearing is a crucial step toward repairing law enforcement’s reputation as an impartial fact finder and seeker of truth. I look forward to the Inspector General’s testimony today.
06.15.2018	This legislation provides a rigorous and timely process to get these deadly substances out of the hands of drug traffickers and off the streets. share: f t The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 239-142 a bill to combat the synthetic drug crisis, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act (H.R. 2851). Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded passage of the bill: “Our nation is facing a drug crisis and it’s destroying lives, families, and communities across the United States. While Congress has taken action to combat the opioid epidemic through the historic Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, it’s clear that we need more tools to combat the ever-growing problem of synthetic drug abuse. These chemically-altered drugs can be just as dangerous and often more deadly than the original drug and current law makes it difficult to get them under control quickly. “Today, the House has taken action to address this national crisis by passing the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act. This legislation provides a rigorous and timely process to get these deadly substances out of the hands of drug traffickers and off the streets. It closes a dangerous loophole by ensuring our laws keep pace with the creation of new, chemically-altered drugs and by providing law enforcement with the tools needed to protect our communities. I thank Congressman Katko for introducing this bill and call on the Senate to pass it without delay.” WATCH: Click here to watch Congressman Goodlatte’s remarks on the House floor in support of H.R. 2851. Background on the Synthetic Drug Crisis: In 2016, over 64,000 Americans died from drug overdoses. More than 20 percent of these deaths resulted from an overdose of synthetic opioids like fentanyl, which can be as much as 100 times more powerful than painkillers like morphine. Criminal drug manufacturers, largely from China and Mexico, work continuously to stay ahead of U.S. drug laws by altering the molecular structure of their drugs as soon as the U.S. government bans them. The Controlled Substances Act (CSA), which was signed into law over 40 years ago, was designed to protect the public from the dangers associated with drugs and drug use. However, the CSA was not designed to handle the magnitude and speed with which these new drugs have emerged in our communities. It currently takes three years to schedule a drug, but criminals can skirt the law by quickly changing one molecule in a drug and get it to U.S. streets. The resulting chemically-altered drug is just as dangerous, and often even more so. Summary of the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act: This bipartisan, bicameral bill – introduced by Representative John Katko (R-N.Y.) – updates the CSA to provide swifter action to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs. Instead of taking three years to bring a drug under control, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act gives the Attorney General the power to quickly and temporarily schedule a new dangerous drug in a matter of months when it is virtually identical to a currently scheduled drug. The bill also requires the Attorney General to work with the Department of Health and Human Services so that the synthetic drugs can be studied by qualified researchers studying addiction and developing the latest cures for serious illnesses. Supporters of H.R. 2851 include the National Association of Police Organizations, the National Fraternal Order of Police, the National District Attorneys Association, and the American College of Emergency Physicians.
06.14.2018	Equality under the law is a core American value. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today made the statement below on the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General Report on “A Review of Various Actions by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice in Advance of the 2016 Election.” “Today’s Inspector General report confirms that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton received special treatment from the Obama Justice Department during its investigation of her use of a private email server. The Justice Department and FBI didn’t treat her like any other criminal suspect and didn’t follow standard investigative procedures. In fact, one of the lead investigators texted he would ‘stop’ Trump from becoming President. These actions have tarnished the reputations of our nation’s top law enforcement agencies and have undermined Americans’ confidence in their justice system. Equality under the law is a core American value. Our laws are to be administered and enforced with impartiality. But this was not the case in the Clinton investigation. “Next week, the House Judiciary and Oversight Committees will hold a joint hearing on the Inspector General’s report. We will hear from Inspector General Horowitz on the report’s findings and have the opportunity to ask him questions about it. Further, today’s report underscores the importance of the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing joint investigation with the House Oversight Committee into decisions made by the Justice Department and FBI in 2016. This report states that the Office of the Inspector General did not second-guess investigative or prosecutorial decisions made in the Clinton investigation. But the report also makes clear they should have.” Details on Joint Judiciary-Oversight Hearing: On Tuesday, June 19, 2018 at 10:00 a.m., the House Committees on the Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform will hold a joint hearing on “Oversight of the FBI and DOJ Actions in Advance of the 2016 Election.” At the hearing, Inspector General Michael Horowitz will testify before the Committees on the findings of the today’s report on Justice Department and FBI actions in advance of the 2016 presidential election. The hearing will take place in Room 210 of the House Capitol Visitor Center (HVC-210).The hearing will be webcast live at judiciary.house.gov and oversight.house.gov. In October 2017, the House Judiciary Committee and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee announced a joint investigation into decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016 and 2017. To date, the Committees have interviewed several key witnesses and reviewed thousands of documents.
06.13.2018	North Korea’s commitment to work toward a complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula is a monumental step forward. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the historic meeting between President Donald J. Trump and Chairman Kim Jong Un in Singapore: “This week we witnessed history. The positive and productive meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong Un highlights this Administration’s desire for a peaceful and stable Korean Peninsula. A nuclear North Korea is a threat to the safety of our allies and to the United States. North Korea’s commitment to work toward a complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula is a monumental step forward. As negotiations to reach this goal continue, the United States must remain vigilant of North Korea’s actions and ensure that they keep their commitments. I will continue to follow this process with great interest. I applaud President Trump for the steps he has taken to initiate the path to a lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula.”
06.06.2018	As gangs have infiltrated our neighborhoods, we must ensure local law enforcement officers have the tools needed to prevent and combat gang activity. share: f t The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 394-13 the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act (H.R. 3249) to curb the rise in gang activity and violence in the United States. This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) and approved by the House Judiciary Committee last year and passed by the House in March, establishes a grant program to provide resources to state and local law enforcement agencies to combat gang activity in their communities, authorizing $50 million annually for Fiscal Year 2019 through Fiscal Year 2021. The bill, recently approved by the Senate, now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Street gang activity in the United States is on the rise. Gangs are actively recruiting middle and high school aged children across the country. Specifically, the FBI has pointed to transnational gangs, such as MS-13, as becoming an increasingly troublesome problem. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s House approval of the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act in the statement below. Goodlatte: “Gang violence affects too many communities across the United States, and the Commonwealth of Virginia has been particularly hard-hit by this problem. Last year, Raymond Wood was killed by suspected members of MS-13 in the congressional district that I represent. As gangs have infiltrated our neighborhoods, we must ensure local law enforcement officers have the tools needed to prevent and combat gang activity. The Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act provides much needed resources for state and local law enforcement agencies to address gang activity within their communities. I thank Congresswoman Comstock for her dedication to eradicating this public safety crisis and look forward to this bill being signed into law by President Trump.” Additional Background: • In September 2017, the House of Representatives approved the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act (H.R. 3697). This bill, introduced by Comstock, Congressman Peter King (R-N.Y.), Congressman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and Goodlatte combats gang violence by criminal aliens and enhances public safety. • In order to protect Americans from these violent gangs, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act ensures that alien gang members are kept off our streets by barring them from coming to the United States and detaining and removing them if they are criminal gang members or participate in gang activity. Additionally, the bill ensures that criminal alien gang members are not eligible for immigration benefits, such as asylum, special immigrant juvenile status, and temporary protected status, which are reserved for those around the world most in need of protection. • Goodlatte and Congresswoman Comstock have also called on the FBI and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to combat MS-13 gang activity in Virginia.
05.31.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that Midora Firebaugh, a rising 11th Grade student at North Cross School in Roanoke, is the winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Her pencil drawing, Memories, will be featured in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of a display of artwork by high school artists from across the nation. Midora resides in Roanoke and is the daughter of Wayne and Lisa Firebaugh. Her art teacher at North Cross School is Amy Jackson. Goodlatte: “Throughout my time serving the Sixth District, the Congressional Art Competition has been something I’ve looked forward to each year. I am always impressed by the talent and creativity of student artists in our area, and this year is no exception. I am pleased to announce that Midora Firebaugh, a student at North Cross School in Roanoke, is the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2018 Congressional Art Competition winner! Midora’s artwork represents her late grandfather by capturing each object he loved most. Congratulations, Midora! I look forward to this thoughtful drawing representing our part of Virginia in the U.S. Capitol for many to see. Thank you to every student who participated in the Congressional Art Competition as well as the teachers and parents for encouraging them to learn more about art and test out their own talents.” Memories by Midora Firebaugh – Click here to download. The 2018 runner-up is Sarah Copeland, a student at Heritage High School in Lynchburg. Sarah’s submission is titled Lily Against Red Wall—an egg tempera painting.
05.24.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the joint announcement from the Departments of State, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Labor regarding regulatory changes to the H-2A temporary agricultural workers program: “Today the Departments of State, Agriculture, Homeland Security, and Labor announced that they intend to make changes to the failed H-2A system. I applaud the Administration’s intention to improve the current program. However, these reforms are only good while the current Administration is in office. Just as the Obama Department of Labor rescinded the George W. Bush Administration’s regulations, such modifications will only provide temporary relief from the onerous H-2A regulations. Our nation’s farmers and ranchers deserve more certainty than that. “The current H-2A program does not meet the needs of our nation’s farmers and ranchers. It is expensive, flawed, plagued with red tape, and isn’t available to farms that require year-round labor. A permanent legislative solution is needed to address the farm labor crisis. That is why I have introduced legislation to permanently replace the outdated H-2A program with a reliable, efficient, and fair program, ensuring that farmers and ranchers will have access to a legal, stable supply of workers for seasonal as well as year-round work.” Background: Earlier this year, Congressman Goodlatte, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) introduced the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill secures the border, bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, including the creation of a new, workable agricultural guestworker program known as the H-2C program.
05.22.2018	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 360-59 a bill to reform the federal prison system, the FIRST STEP Act (H.R. 5682). This legislation, sponsored by Representatives Doug Collins (R-Ga.) and Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), improves the federal prison system through the implementation of corrections policy reforms. These targeted reforms enhance public safety by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the federal prison system in order to control corrections spending, manage the prison population, provide educational and vocational training to inmates so they can successfully reenter society once released, and reduce recidivism. It was recently approved by the House Judiciary Committee by a vote of 25-5. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s House vote: “The House Judiciary Committee has worked on a bipartisan basis for several years to bring much-needed reform to the criminal justice system. We’ve already seen the enactment of forensics reform – the Rapid DNA Act – and now the House has taken another step toward reforming the criminal justice system by passing the FIRST STEP Act, a bipartisan prison reform bill. “Since the vast majority of federal prisoners will one day be released from prison, the FIRST STEP Act provides inmates the help they need to successfully reenter society so that they don’t return to a life of crime. Importantly, these reforms will enhance the safety of our communities. I thank Representatives Collins and Jeffries for their work on and dedication to this important issue. I am pleased the House of Representatives voted to pass this bill, and I look forward to working on other initiatives to improve the criminal justice system with Members of Congress and the Trump Administration.” Key Components of the FIRST STEP Act: Strengthens Public Safety: · The FIRST STEP Act implements a post-sentencing dynamic risk assessment system to determine an inmate’s risk of committing more crimes upon release from prison. Under the legislation, the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) would utilize effective recidivism reduction programs and provide incentives for inmates to participate in those programs. Ultimately, inmates could earn credits toward an alternative custody arrangement – such as a halfway house or home confinement – at the end of their prison sentence. · Renders criminals convicted of certain serious offenses ineligible for the alternative custody program, including dangerous sexual offenders, murderers, and others. Enhances Prison Security: · The bill requires the Director of BOP to provide a secure storage area outside the secure perimeter for employees to store firearms or to allow for vehicle lock boxes for firearms. · The bill requires the Director of BOP to provide de-escalation training as part of the regular training requirements of correctional officers. Provides Inmates the Help They Need: · The bill provides more employment opportunities for inmates by expanding the federal prison industries program. · The bill requires BOP to initiate pilot programs for youth mentorship and the training and therapy of rescue dogs. · It requires BOP to submit a report and evaluation of the current pilot program to treat heroin and opioid abuse through medication assisted treatment. · The bill extends the compassionate elderly release provision from the Second Chance Act that allows the prisoner to request for his or her compassionate release if he or she meets the requirements set out in the law. · The bill codifies BOP’s rules on using restraints on pregnant inmates, which generally prohibit the use of restraints on pregnant inmates except those who are an immediate and credible flight risk or threat of harm to herself, the baby, or others.
05.22.2018	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved S. 204, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2017. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of S. 204: “One more chance – that’s what this bill gives terminally-ill patients. For terminally-ill patients who are not accepted into a clinical trial or granted an exemption to use a new treatment, it can be devastating to know that potentially life-saving drugs and therapies exist, but are not available to you. We can restore hope to these patients by enacting fair and compassionate Right to Try legislation, which grants access to medications that have passed basic safety testing by the Food and Drug Administration but are not yet obtainable by the general public. We cannot let a lengthy approval process be the reason someone in dire need cannot access an otherwise safe treatment. The House previously passed a similar version of this legislation, and I’m pleased that Right to Try is finally heading to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Americans and their loved ones deserve the chance to fight for their lives.” Background: On March 21, 2018, the House of Representatives passed, with Congressman Goodlatte’s support, H.R. 5247, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018 by a bipartisan vote of 267 – 149.
05.18.2018	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, or the Farm Bill. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of the Agriculture and Nutrition Act, which failed to receive enough votes to pass the House: “I am extremely disappointed that the House could not come together today and pass the most important piece of legislation impacting the agricultural community. The Farm Bill sets our country’s farm policy for the next several years and reinforces our country’s commitment to farmers and ranchers from coast to coast, including in Virginia’s Sixth District. It supports rural communities who need increased access to broadband technology, and strengthens the investment in locally-led, voluntary conservation efforts. “Most upsettingly, this bill was an opportunity to change people’s lives. The Agriculture and Nutrition Act took significant steps to improve the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and other anti-hunger programs and ensure those who need help the most are receiving the benefits. The bill makes major investments in workforce training and development to lift able-bodied Americans up and out of poverty and help SNAP recipients find employment to bring financial stability to their lives. I was proud to support this bill as a member of the House Agriculture Committee and today before the full House of Representatives. The Farm Bill must be passed before September 30, and I urge my colleagues in the House to come back to the table and pass a reform-minded bill as quickly as possible. We cannot delay.”
05.16.2018	Last night, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) appeared on The Ingraham Angle to discuss his bill, the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760), and efforts to bring the so-called “queen of the hill” resolution to the House floor, allowing for House consideration of four immigration bills. Click here to watch. On the Securing America’s Future Act: “It addresses the DACA issue in a fair way but only in exchange for making sure that we don’t let this problem continue in the future.” On the “queen of the hill” discharge petition: “Why would we turn control over to the Democrats? … The risk is that you will get an unbalanced bill where you address DACA only.” Background: Earlier this year, Goodlatte introduced the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. Details on the Securing America’s Future Act can be found here.
05.16.2018	Today, the Senate voted on a measure that would use the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to roll back the Federal Communication Commission’s Restoring Internet Freedom Order. The measure passed by a vote of 52-47. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement in response to the Senate vote: “The Senate’s vote on the so-called net neutrality CRA represents a major setback for consumers and innovators. As we have witnessed over the last several years, the internet progresses most when it remains free from overregulation. I am disappointed that my colleagues in the Senate have advanced this measure that will hurt the internet economy in the long run. If we seek to maintain a stable internet marketplace, create jobs, and increase access to the internet for all Americans, it is time to return to the light-touch regulation that empowered the internet to grow to its current position of prominence. I have opposed the heavy-handed internet regulations from the previous Administration, and I will continue to oppose the rollback of the Restoring Internet Freedom Order in the future.” Background: In 2017, Goodlatte outlined his concerns about over-regulating the internet and explained why the FTC is better equipped than the FCC to protect privacy and remedy antitrust issues. Goodlatte also praised FCC Chairman Pai’s Restoring Internet Freedom Order when it was first released in November 2017. The House Judiciary Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law held hearings in 2015 and again in 2017 about the FCC’s net neutrality rule. Chairman Goodlatte and several other Judiciary Committee Members also wrote a letter opposing Title II regulations when they were first issued in 2015.
05.16.2018	America’s veterans answered the call to duty, now it’s our duty to provide for them. share: f t Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved S. 2372, the John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka, and Samuel R. Johnson VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (VA MISSION) Act of 2018. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of the VA MISSION Act: “Our veterans faithfully served us, and it’s time we serve them by providing the care they deserve. By streamlining the VA’s community care programs into one comprehensive operation, implementing a process for reviewing the VA’s assets to ensure veterans can access the care they have earned, strengthening the VA’s workforce through modernization and recruitment, and expanding the Family Caregiver Program to pre-9/11 veterans, we can ensure our nation’s heroes have access to high-quality health care in every community in the United States. “The bill also provides additional funding for the Veterans Choice Program, a vital program I have supported that allows veterans to seek care outside of the VA system if they cannot get an appointment at their local VA facility in a timely manner or they live more than 40 miles away from the nearest VA medical facility. Funding for this program expires at the end of the month, and asking our veterans to wait for care is simply unacceptable. The bipartisan VA MISSION Act builds off the work done by Congress over the past several years to right the ship after serious failures within in the VA system were revealed. The Senate needs to join the House in passing this bill and getting it to the President’s desk. America’s veterans answered the call to duty, now it’s our duty to provide for them.”
05.16.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded this week’s House passage of four bipartisan Judiciary Committee bills designed to honor the sacrifices made by law enforcement officers and ensure they have the tools needed to do their job and keep the public safe: “Every day, police officers across the United States confront danger to keep us safe. From rural farmlands to bustling cities, law enforcement officers protect their fellow citizens from harm, keep the peace, and carry out justice. Last year alone, 135 officers lost their lives in the line of duty, including four from the Commonwealth of Virginia. We must remember the sacrifices made by our nation’s law enforcement officers and honor them by providing tools needed to do their jobs more effectively and safely. “This week the House of Representatives has acted once again to stand shoulder to shoulder with police officers. We’ve passed four bipartisan bills to help protect their lives, improve police and community relations, and provide resources needed to prosecute sexual assault crimes. I thank the many members that have worked on these bills and urge the Senate to pass them expeditiously.” This week, the House of Representatives approved the Lieutenant Osvaldo Albarati Correctional Officer Self-Protection Act (H.R. 613), sponsored by David McKinley (R-W.Va.), by a vote of 378-0. This bill allows correctional officers to store firearms in lockers on prison grounds in order to protect themselves to and from work. The House also passed the Justice Served Act (H.R. 4854), sponsored by Rep. John Carter (R-Texas), by a vote of 377-1. This legislation provides funding for grants to ensure that state and local law enforcement has the capacity to prosecute sexual assault crimes. Specifically, it directs 5-7 percent of the money allocated by current law to process DNA test kits to grants to prosecute these crimes. Additionally, the House passed H.Res. 285, sponsored by Rep. Scott Taylor (R-Va.), by a vote of 377-2. This bipartisan resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that Congress and the President should create police and community alliances to enhance and improve communication and collaboration between the law enforcement community and the public. And lastly, the House passed the Protect and Serve Act (H.R. 5698), sponsored by Rep. John Rutherford (R-Fla.), by a vote of 382-35. This bill provides a significant deterrent for those seeking to attack police officers. To combat attacks against police officers, which have risen dramatically in recent years, the bill allows for the federal prosecution of those who knowingly assault a law enforcement officer causing serious bodily injury or attempt to do so. In order to qualify for federal prosecution, the victim must either be a federal law enforcement officer, or, if a state or local officer, there must be a nexus to interstate commerce. Additional Background: During Police Week last year, the House passed the Thin Blue Line Act (H.R. 115) and the Probation Officers Protection Act (H.R. 1039), but the Senate has failed to move these bills.
05.09.2018	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 25-5 a bill to reform the federal prison system, the Formerly Incarcerated Reenter Society Transformed Safely Transitioning Every Person Act (H.R. 5682). This bill, also known as the FIRST STEP Act and sponsored by Representatives Doug Collins (R-Ga.) and Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), improves the federal prison system through the implementation of corrections policy reforms. These targeted reforms enhance public safety by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the federal prison system in order to control corrections spending, manage the prison population, provide educational and vocational training to inmates so they can successfully reenter society once released, and reduce recidivism. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s approval of the bill: “The vast majority of federal prisoners will someday be released from prison and it is important to give them tools to become more productive citizens so that they don’t return to a life of crime. The FIRST STEP Act provides inmates the help they need to successfully reenter society, which will in turn enhance the safety of our communities. I thank Representatives Collins and Jeffries for their work on and dedication to this important issue. I am pleased the House Judiciary Committee today voted to approve this bill, and I look forward to working on other initiatives to improve the criminal justice system with Members of Congress and the Trump Administration.” Key Components of the FIRST STEP Act: Strengthens Public Safety: • The FIRST STEP Act implements a post-sentencing dynamic risk-assessment system to determine an inmate's risk of committing more crimes upon release from prison. Under the bill, the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) would utilize effective recidivism reduction programs and provide incentives for inmates to participate in those programs. Ultimately, inmates could earn credits toward an alternative custody arrangement -- such as a halfway house or home confinement -- at the end of their prison sentence. • Renders criminals convicted of certain serious offenses ineligible for the alternative custody program, including dangerous sexual offenders, murderers, and others. Enhances Prison Security: • The bill requires the Director of BOP to provide a secure storage area outside the secure perimeter for employees to store firearms or to allow for vehicle lock boxes for firearms. • The bill requires the Director of BOP to provide de-escalation training as part of the regular training requirements of correctional officers. Provides Inmates the Help They Need: • The bill provides more employment opportunities for inmates by expanding the federal prison industries program. • The bill requires BOP to initiate pilot programs for youth mentorship and the training and therapy of rescue dogs. • It requires BOP to submit a report and evaluation of the current pilot program to treat heroin and opioid abuse through medication assisted treatment. • The bill extends the compassionate elderly release provision from the Second Chance Act that allows the prisoner to request for his or her compassionate release if he or she meets the requirements set out in the law. • The bill codifies BOP’s rules on using restraints on pregnant inmates, which generally prohibit the use of restraints on pregnant inmates except those who are an immediate and credible flight risk or threat of harm to herself, the baby, or others.
05.09.2018	The opioid crisis knows no bounds. We’ve seen the real effects of drug abuse in communities throughout the Sixth District. Yesterday, Congressman Goodlatte and the House Judiciary Committee heard from several witnesses about the challenges and solutions in the opioid abuse crisis. This includes Kristen Holman of Lynchburg who lost her little brother, Garrett, to addiction in 2017. Click here to view her moving testimony. You can read her testimony and watch the full hearing by clicking here. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following statement during the House Judiciary Committee’s hearing on “Challenges and Solutions in the Opioid Abuse Crisis.” Chairman Goodlatte: Good morning. America is in the middle of an epidemic it has never seen before. The opioid crisis knows no bounds. It is affecting individuals and families in every Congressional district. Its consequences, ranging from personal health to the economy, are devastating. The opioid epidemic represents the convergence of the abuses of opioids, heroin and synthetic drugs like fentanyl. Individuals suffering from addiction often switch between using opioids and heroin based on a variety of factors including cost and purity. Drug traffickers are further exploiting personal misery by adding deadly fentanyl analogues to the heroin and the illicit opioid supplies to increase their profits. Sadly, unwary and unsuspecting users are suffering deadly results. More frequently, pure fentanyl analogues in the illicit drug supply are resulting in overdose deaths and injuries to first responders. Since these analogues can be deadly in quantities as little as two milligrams, police and other first responders can unknowingly inhale airborne fentanyl or have it come in contact with their skin, causing them to overdose and suffer other severe reactions. Tragically, more than 64,000 Americans died from drug overdoses in 2016. The sharpest increase occurred among deaths related to synthetic opioids with over 20,000 overdose deaths. Not only has the total number of opioid pain relievers prescribed in the United States skyrocketed in the past 25 years, but recent studies have shown that over half of chronic prescription drug abusers received the pills from friends or family. In 2018, more than 2 million Americans will suffer from addiction to prescription or illicit opioids. Over the past two years the House Judiciary Committee and Congress have passed several bills to address the opioid crisis. These bills include the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, or “CARA”, enacted in July 2016, and the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act, or “SITSA”, approved by the House Judiciary Committee in July 2017. While much work has been done, we must redouble our efforts to turn the tide in this crisis. We know now more than ever that a crisis like this requires dynamic and outside-of-the-box solutions. Today’s hearing will examine what’s working and what needs to be looked at again in the opioid crisis. We will learn about best practices in international and domestic enforcement, and promising solutions in treatment and prevention. We will also hear about the devastation ravaged by this epidemic from a first-hand perspective. I thank all the witnesses for appearing today, and I look forward to their responses to our questions. Click here to watch the full statement.
05.08.2018	Yesterday, The Roanoke Times ran an editorial piece on the Music Modernization Act, which was introduced by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and is a product of the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive copyright review. The Music Modernization Act passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 415-0 on April 25, 2018. The Roanoke Times: Editorial: How Bob Goodlatte just saved the music industry May 7, 2018 If you like to listen to music digitally through, say, Pandora or Spotify, you may soon find a wider range of artists available through your favorite streaming service. For this, you have an unlikely person to thank: U.S. Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Roanoke County. In his capacity as chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Goodlatte most often makes the news in conjunction with the big, polarizing questions of the day — immigration, special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, the politicization of the Federal Bureau of Investigations. What’s gone largely unrecognized, though, is that on another issue, Goodlatte has helped craft a remarkable agreement among a set of competing interest groups that many never thought would agree on anything. The issue: How musicians and music producers get paid in the digital era. That may not seem to have the import of, say, whatever President Trump tweeted today — but is a big deal if you like to listen to music. First, we must begin with a concept that some still have trouble grasping: A song is property — intangible, to be sure, but property nonetheless. That’s how intellectual property works — and songwriters, musicians, producers, sound engineers get paid for the creation of that property in the form of royalties. If you buy a physical copy of that song for your own personal enjoyment — a compact disc, for instance — there’s a recognized way for everybody in the production chain to get paid. But what happens when somebody starts playing that recording for the public and charging money for it? That’s where things get murky. Songs have been regulated under a section of the Copyright Act that was passed in 1909 — before there even was a recording industry. As Goodlatte described it to Congress: “Music is no longer written on piano rolls and our laws shouldn’t be based on that technology any longer either.” Here’s one way to illustrate part of the problem: Due to a quirk in the existing law, musicians who produced songs before 1972 don’t get paid when those songs are played on streaming services. Those streaming services have to pay somebody for the right to play those songs. So who gets the money? For songs produced since 1972, the record company gets half; the “featured musician” gets 45 percent and “non-featured musicians” get 5 percent. For songs produced before 1972, the record company gets paid — but nobody else. You might imagine that all those “legacy musicians” aren’t too happy about that. There’s also a tangle of other problems, too: Sometimes it’s not always clear who owns the rights to a song. Copyrights can be sold just like anything else; that’s how Michael Jackson once wound up as the owner of the rights to many of the Beatles songs. And then there are music publishers who may hold the right to market a particular song on behalf of the copyright holder. That confusion over who owns what — and who is owed what — has often led to lawsuits. Big ones, too. Earlier this year, one music licensing company filed a $1.6 billion lawsuit against Spotify, alleging the service had played songs by its clients (which include the Doors, Tom Petty and Neil Young) without paying for the right to do so. Enter Bob Goodlatte. You might wonder why a congressman from Virginia is mixed up in the music business. Umm, his constituents like to listen to music too, right? (Goodlatte himself likes listening to Broadway showtunes and classic performers such as Kenny Rogers and John Denver.) More seriously, Goodlatte’s involvement in the music issue springs from his long-standing interest in intellectual property issues, and his broader work at trying to update the nation’s copyright laws for the digital age. Three years ago, the House Judiciary Committee held a series of hearings across the country — the locations in Nashville, Los Angeles, Silicon Valley and New York were hardly accidental. At the beginning, everyone involved had a different opinion for how the system should work. Musicians and record companies have always had an uneasy relationship, but now there are technology companies that are fundamentally changing the marketplace to the discomfort of both. “All the time I’ve been in Congress, they’ve fought with each other,” Goodlatte says. But then something remarkable happened. “After hearing each other, they realized each side had legitimate complaints.” Musicians and record companies want to get paid; streaming services wanted to avoid being sued. If you’re a music fan, you just want to hear the song. If you want to think a bit deeper, you might also want a system where new technologies can be developed without fear of being sued out of existence — and musicians can make enough money that they can keep making music you want to hear. Out of all this emerged the Music Modernization Act that, in broad terms, simplifies how streaming services can get access to music— and provides a way for those pre-1972 musicians to get paid. Just about everybody in the music industry is behind it — although musicians seem happier about it than the streaming services. SiriusXM Satellite Radio, for instance, isn’t very happy because it may have to pay more for the songs it plays. The bill passed the House without a single dissenting vote on April 25 and now heads to the Senate, where prospects for passage seem good. Meanwhile, Goodlatte is getting rave reviews for being able to broker an unprecedented agreement among such disparate interest groups. (Among those who lobbied Goodlatte personally were Slash of Guns’n’Roses, Steven Tyler of Aerosmith, Smokey Robinson and Dionne Warwick). Variety magazine praised Goodlatte for “demonstrating a depth of knowledge that only a small percentage of working members of the music community share.” Groups representing musicians and sound engineers are especially singing his praises because, in their view, he stood up to the corporate giants to force them to share the wealth — not the usual way that Republicans are portrayed. Goodlatte takes a more traditional free market view: He believes this bill will clear away lots of legal obstacles to innovation — and create a more competitive marketplace that will benefit the consumer. So the next time you hear that one-hit wonder from your childhood come on internet radio, think back to warm memories of growing up. But save a thought for how the people involved in making that music will now get paid for their work, and who made that happen. http://www.roanoke.com/opinion/editorials/editorial-how-bob-goodlatte-just-saved-the-music-industry/article_480d8e16-cb7a-5a77-a27f-fec309ca156a.html
05.07.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the passing of Dr. Charles William Steger Jr., the 15th president of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: “Dr. Charles Steger was a visionary who oversaw the largest expansion in Virginia Tech history. With Dr. Steger at the helm, the university became the premier educational institution we know today. A true leader, he also brought together an entire campus and community during the horrific tragedy in 2007. I’m honored to have known Dr. Steger and worked with him closely over the years. I was especially excited by the partnership that he developed with Carilion Clinic to create the Virginia Tech Carilion Research Institute and the Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine in Roanoke. This strengthened the university’s ties to the nearby Roanoke region and the Sixth Congressional District. My prayers are with his family and the entire Virginia Tech community during this incredibly difficult time.”
05.07.2018	It is time we connect all Americans and businesses, including our nation’s rural communities, to the latest broadband technology. share: f t On Friday, in The Northern Virginia Daily, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) highlighted recent legislative initiatives in the U.S. House of Representatives to increase investments in rural broadband development. The Northern Virginia Daily: Farm Bill opportunity to connect all Americans By: Bob Goodlatte May 4, 2018 Roughly every five years, Congress passes a Farm Bill – legislation that affects every aspect of America’s agricultural industry. From programs for farmers and ranchers and shifts in trade policy to conservation efforts and nutrition assistance, the Farm Bill is a vital piece of legislation that touches every single American. But an often glanced-over title in this legislation is rural development, and this year’s bill puts an emphasis on improving access to broadband in rural America, including critical measures that would make great strides right here in the Shenandoah Valley. The Farm Bill is an opportunity to connect all Americans to high-speed broadband. America is in the midst of a technological revolution, but some parts of the country are being left behind when it comes to one crucial component – the internet. Broadband technology is more than 50 times faster than the old modems used for internet access. But it is not a given. There are still parts of the country that do not have access to this technology. High-speed internet is essential to rural communities in improving education opportunities, accessing innovative health care, and utilizing precision farming methods. Rural America would benefit greatly from enhanced broadband access. Thankfully, the Farm Bill (H.R. 2) makes two significant updates to the Rural Broadband Access Loans and Loan Guarantees Program, which provides funding for the construction, improvement, and acquisition of facilities and equipment needed to provide broadband service in eligible rural areas. The bill requires applicants to the program to look beyond today’s standards and plan for quality service for the entirety of their loan. As broadband technology evolves, so must the network infrastructure. Too often, broadband projects funded by the government are sufficient for a few years, but soon residents and businesses find themselves connected to outdated networks. This provision ensures broadband speeds will continuously be upgraded to meet the current standards. The bill also incentivizes applicants to reach deeper into rural communities. Many providers claim that some areas are too expensive to reach and that they will never recuperate the cost of their loans in certain locations. To encourage providers to service these often ignored areas, additional capital will be provided based on a new density test. Less dense areas are in need of this technology most. Proposed networks that will reach subscribers spread over the largest distances will be able to receive grant funding that will help bring modern broadband technology to underserved areas. With the passage of this bill, Congress will expand on its work to improve rural broadband across the country. Earlier this year, the House and Senate passed and President Trump signed into law a funding bill that provided $625 million for rural broadband. This investment increases, expedites, and expands rural broadband projects within the Department of Agriculture as part of a larger commitment to improving America’s infrastructure. The provisions in this year’s Farm Bill are another opportunity to keep that commitment. It is time we connect all Americans and businesses, including our nation’s rural communities, to the latest broadband technology. Just a few days ago, the House Agriculture Committee approved the Farm Bill, and it will soon come before the full House of Representatives for consideration. We have a major opportunity to increase access for areas that have long been underserved and overlooked. Bringing this technology to rural America is of the utmost importance, and Congress must work together to ensure we do not become a digitally divided nation. This year’s Farm Bill will do just that. Congressman Bob Goodlatte represents the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia in the U.S. House of Representatives and is a member, and former chair, of the House Agriculture Committee. http://www.nvdaily.com/opinion/2018/05/commentary-farm-bill-opportunity-to-connect-all-americans/
05.07.2018	The Trump Administration needs the tools contained in the Securing America’s Future Act to help its efforts to secure the border. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today applauded the decision from Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen that DHS will refer all illegal border crossers for criminal prosecution: “I commend Secretary Nielsen for taking action in conjunction with Attorney General Sessions to restore the rule of law at our nation’s borders and ports of entry by announcing that all illegal border crossers flouting the law will be referred for prosecution. The Trump Administration’s zero-tolerance policy for illegal entry and re-entry sends the strong message to the world that our immigration laws will be enforced and illegal immigration will not be tolerated. However, loopholes in our laws that encourage illegal immigration must also be closed if we are to secure our nation’s borders and restore the integrity of our immigration system. “The Securing America’s Future Act, which I introduced with Chairman McCaul and Representatives Labrador and McSally earlier this year, takes a number of steps to ensure our immigration laws are enforced. It aims to reduce the number of people who overstay the terms of their visas, prevents fraud and abuse in the asylum system, and provides the authority to ensure unaccompanied minors are safely and quickly returned home. The Trump Administration needs the tools contained in the Securing America’s Future Act to help its efforts to secure the border. With these tools, our nation will be able to more effectively fight illegal immigration. I continue to work with Members of Congress on fine-tuning the Securing America’s Future Act and with House Leadership to schedule a vote on this bill soon.” Additional Background: Earlier this year, Chairman Goodlatte, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) introduced the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
05.04.2018	On Tuesday, May 8 at 10:00 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing titled, “Challenges and Solutions in the Opioid Abuse Crisis.” The hearing will examine best practices in international and domestic enforcement, and challenges and shortcomings in local prosecutions, treatment, and prevention. In 2016, more than 64,000 Americans died from drug overdoses. About 30 percent of these deaths resulted from an overdose of synthetic opioids like fentanyl, which can be as much as 100 times more powerful than painkillers such as morphine. The total number of opioid pain relievers prescribed in the United States has skyrocketed in the past 25 years and recent studies have shown that over half of chronic prescription drug abusers received the pills from friends or family. Over the past two years the House Judiciary Committee and Congress have passed several bills to address the opioid crisis. These bills include the Comprehensive Addiction and Reduction Act, enacted in July 2016, and the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act, approved by the House Judiciary Committee in July 2017. And in October 2017, President Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency under federal law. Witnesses for the hearing are: Panel I: Robert W. Patterson, Acting Administrator, Drug Enforcement Administration Panel II: Dr. Timothy Westlake, M.D., Hartland, Wisconsin J. Spencer Morgan III, Commonwealth’s Attorney, Accomack County, Virginia Kristen Holman, Lynchburg, Virginia Dr. Josiah Rich, M.D., Providence, Rhode Island House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below in advance of this hearing. Chairman Goodlatte: “Opioid addiction and overdoses plague communities across the United States, affecting everyone from all-state football captains to stay-at-home mothers. These drugs destroy lives and tear apart families. Over the past several years, Congress has taken action to combat this epidemic, most notably by passing the landmark Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act. However, opioid overdoses continue to climb each year, showing that much more work needs to be done to prevent drug addiction and help people seek the treatment they need so that they can reclaim and rebuild their lives. Next week, the House Judiciary Committee will examine the challenges our nation faces in addressing the ongoing opioid crisis and consider possible solutions to this problem.” This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at judiciary.house.gov. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214.
05.01.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today called for an investigation into allegations that the Obama Justice Department pressured the FBI to shut down its Clinton Foundation probe during the 2016 presidential election. A recent report issued by the Department of Justice’s Office of the Inspector General contained disturbing information that the Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General, who is the top staff person in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General and advises on all major investigations and policy matters, called former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe to express displeasure that FBI agents were pursuing a probe into the Clinton Foundation during the election season. The Deputy Attorney General at the time was Sally Yates, who was appointed to her post by President Obama. In a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Chairman Goodlatte calls for the Justice Department to investigate allegations that senior officials at the Obama Justice Department sought to hamper the FBI’s investigation into the Clinton Foundation and to hold any wrongdoers accountable. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found HERE. May 1, 2018 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. Dear Attorney General Sessions: Following the release by the Department of Justice’s Office of the Inspector General entitled, “A Report of Investigation of Certain Allegations Relating to Former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe,” I have serious concerns that the Department, during the Obama Administration, attempted to obstruct justice by attempting to inappropriately terminate an FBI investigation on the Clinton Foundation. Under the facts laid out by the DOJ Inspector General (IG), it is shocking to hear that the Obama Department of Justice may have allowed politics to dictate what cases should or should not be pursued. The report states that Mr. McCabe received a phone call from the Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General (PADAG) of the Department of Justice. As you know, the PADAG is top staff person in the Office of the Deputy Attorney General, who “advises the Deputy Attorney General on all major investigations and policy matters.” The Deputy Attorney General at the time was Sally Yates. It is unclear based on the IG’s report who was serving as PADAG, but indications are that former PADAG, Matthew Axelrod, was serving in the position at the time. During the aforementioned phone call, the IG report recounts that the PADAG called Mr. McCabe and “expressed concerns about FBI agents taking overt steps in the CF [Clinton Foundation] Investigation during the presidential campaign.” This corresponds to reporting by the Wall Street Journal which detailed, “a senior Justice Department official called Mr. McCabe to voice his displeasure at finding that New York FBI agents were still openly pursuing the Clinton Foundation probe during the election season…. The Justice Department official was ‘very pissed off,’ according to one person close to McCabe, and pressed him to explain why the FBI was still chasing a matter the department considered dormant.” Due to the information divulged by the IG report on Mr. McCabe, and the seemingly corroborated news story from the Wall Street Journal, it appears that the PADAG was at the very least inquiring into why the FBI was pursuing a case against the Clinton Foundation during the election, and at worst, attempting to improperly and illegally influence the status of an ongoing investigation for purely partisan purposes. Both options are unseemly and should be investigated. Moreover, we have indications that the Clinton Foundation investigation was being run out of the Public Corruption program out of the FBI’s Manassas office and out of FBI’s New York field office. It is important to determine whether the PADAG’s directions to Mr. McCabe resulted in any “stand down” order being given to agents in these offices. Once again, according to the IG report, we see a top official – Mr. McCabe – behaving in a manner unworthy of a public servant and, in particular, an FBI agent. However, we have also learned that there may have been undue pressure and influence asserted by the Department – and possibly even higher levels of the U.S. government during the Obama Administration – to ensure that a validly predicated investigation of the Clinton Foundation was terminated. While I believe this is another reason you should name a Special Counsel to investigate these matters, at a minimum the allegations deserve further scrutiny to determine whether the FBI was hampered in any way by top officials in the Department of Justice, top officials of the FBI itself, or senior officials of the Obama Administration. Please confirm that the DOJ will take immediate steps to investigate this matter and hold any wrongdoers accountable. The American people continue to learn new information on a regular basis calling into question law enforcement’s impartiality, and creating the perception that the last Administration was using political power to affect the outcome of investigations. Your prompt attention to this request is most appreciated. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee
05.01.2018	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein requesting the Department of Justice (DOJ) provide documents and information related to Daniel Richman's status at the FBI and/or DOJ as well as his handling of former FBI Director Comey's memos. Excerpts from the letter: "The Committees are aware James Comey, the former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), shared or instructed staff to share at least some portion of the memos he drafted memorializing his conversations with President Donald J. Trump (the Comey Memos) to an individual named Daniel Richman. The Committee is also aware Richman is or has been a "Special Government Employee (SGE)" of the FBI." "To assist the Committees in their oversight of this matter, please provide a copy of any non-disclosure agreement(s) signed by Richman with FBI, DOJ, or any other entity of the federal government." Full text of the letter can be viewed here. Background: In October 2017, the Committees opened a joint investigation into the decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016 and 2017. On April 13, the Committees requested the Department of Justice make copies of former FBI Director Comey's memos available to the Committees. On April 20, the Committees received copies of former FBI Director Comey's memo.
04.30.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the retirement of Thomas Homan, the Acting Director for U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). “Tom has dedicated his career to serving the American people and keeping our communities safe. Tom’s work ethic, expertise, and leadership made him stand out at ICE and he rose through the ranks to become Acting Director of the agency. He’s been a tremendous partner in helping to steer ICE back to its core mission of immigration enforcement and public safety. Through his leadership, ICE has removed thousands of criminal aliens from our streets, taken effective action to combat MS-13 and other transnational gang violence, and has given victims of illegal immigrant crime a voice in their government. I commend Tom for his many years of government service and wish him all the best in his retirement.”
04.26.2018	Today at 10:00 a.m. the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing to examine social media filtering and policing practices. This hearing will focus on what metrics social media platforms use to moderate content, how filtering decisions are made, and whether viewpoints have been silenced on some of the most popular and widely used platforms. Witnesses for the hearing are: Panel I: The Honorable Marsha Blackburn, 7th District of Tennessee, United States House of Representatives The Honorable Jim Himes, 4th District of Connecticut, United States House of Representatives Panel II Facebook (invited) Google (invited) Twitter (invited) Panel III Diamond and Silk, Social Media Personalities Berin Szoka, President, TechFreedom David Chavern, Chief Executive Officer, News Media Alliance Professor Ari Waldman, Associate Professor of Law, Director, Innovation Center for Law and Technology, New York Law School House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement in advance of the hearing. Chairman Goodlatte: “The advent of social media has made it possible for people to connect across continents, explore vast amounts of information, and share meaningful dialogue with friends and strangers. However, this same technology can be used to suppress a particular viewpoint and manipulate public opinion. I look forward to hearing from a wide variety of experts at our hearing to discuss the free speech implications of social media filtering." This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at judiciary.house.gov. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214.
04.26.2018	I’m extremely disappointed that some of the Internet’s largest speech platforms refused to testify today. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued a statement following the failure of Facebook, Google, and Twitter to attend a hearing on social media filtering practices to which they had been invited: “I’m extremely disappointed that some of the Internet’s largest speech platforms refused to testify today. We know that these social media platforms remove content. As legitimate businesses, they must ensure that their services aren’t being abused for illegal purposes such as fraud and identity theft. There is, however, a big difference between removing illegal activity and suppressing speech. Americans recognize that and they want to know why they’re being banned, blocked, or labeled online, which is why we asked Facebook, Twitter, and Google to participate in today’s hearing. “Unfortunately, these platforms, who purport to ‘help people connect,’ appear more interested in saving face than engaging on the issues face-to-face. This Committee will take whatever steps necessary to obtain answers directly from these tech companies so that we can better understand their filtering practices in order to promote freedom of speech on the Internet.”
04.25.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on a D.C. federal judge’s ruling ordering the Trump Administration to continue the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which was unilaterally created in a memorandum by the Obama Administration, and accept new applicants: “For a federal judge to rule that the current administration cannot change a memo from the previous administration is absurd. The DACA program was unilaterally created by the Obama Administration in a memo penned by former Homeland Security Secretary Napolitano. Just as easily as it was issued, it can be rescinded – presidential policy is not set in stone and often changes from one administration to the next. Furthermore, this ruling is yet another example of the type of abuse one district court judge of limited territorial jurisdiction can engage in to prevent the implementation of federal policies nationwide. “More importantly, however, I have long argued that the Obama Administration abused its executive power in creating DACA and other programs benefiting unlawful immigrants. In fact, a federal appeals court ruled that the DACA spin-off program, the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents program, is unlawful, so there is no basis for saying that DACA is lawful when similar programs have been overruled as unlawful. The Constitution clearly delegates the power to write our nation’s immigration laws to the Congress, not the President. Our nation’s immigration laws need to be improved, including a legislative solution for DACA beneficiaries, but the executive and judicial branches do not have the authority to rewrite the law.” Additional Background: Earlier this year, Chairman Goodlatte, House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) introduced the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program.
04.25.2018	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 415-0 the Music Modernization Act (H.R. 5447), bipartisan legislation that updates several key provisions of U.S. copyright law regarding music licensing. This consensus legislation is a product of the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive copyright review and was introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Vice Chairman Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Representative Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), former House Judiciary Committee Chairman and current Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), and Representative Ted Deutch (D-Fla.) Chairman Goodlatte releases the following statement on today’s House passage of the Music Modernization Act: “Music, along with the other copyright industries, has enriched our lives and expanded our cultural opportunities. Today the House took a historic step toward ensuring the music industry can continue to flourish by modernizing our music copyright laws so music creators are fairly compensated for their works. The Music Modernization Act, which is the first major update to our music licensing laws in decades, finally brings our music laws into the digital age. “The Music Modernization Act is the product of endless amounts of hard work by stakeholders and many members of the House Judiciary Committee, as we reviewed our copyright laws to ensure they were keeping pace in the digital age. I appreciate all the hard work of our Committee members, especially Representative Doug Collins, and I urge the Senate to quickly pass this important legislation so it can be sent to the President for his signature.” Click here for video of Chairman Goodlatte’s remarks on the House Floor in support of the Music Modernization Act. Key Provisions of the Music Modernization Act include: Title I – Music Modernization Act Reflects how modern digital music services operate by creating a blanket licensing system to quickly license and pay for musical work copyrights Discourages music litigation that generates legal settlements in favor of simply ensuring that artists and copyright owners are paid in the first place without such litigation Ends the flawed U.S. Copyright Office bulk notice of intent system that allows royalties to not be paid Implements uniform rate setting standards to be used by the Copyright Royalty Board for all music services Shifts the costs of the new licensing collective created by the bill to those who benefit from the collective - the licensees Updates how certain rate court cases are assigned in the Southern District of New York Title II -- Compensating Legacy Artists for their Songs, Service, and Important Contributions to Society (CLASSICS) Act Provides that performers who recorded songs before 1972 can finally be paid for their works (currently, only performers who recorded songs after 1972 are paid for their works) Title III -- Allocation for Music Producers (AMP) Act Ensures that record producers, sound engineers, and other creative professionals receive compensation for their work More information on the House Judiciary Committee’s copyright review can be found here.
04.23.2018	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) released the following statement after reaching an agreement with Department of Justice (DOJ) Assistant Attorney General Stephen E. Boyd and United States Attorney John Lausch to review and obtain documents and information pursuant to the Committees’ joint investigation into decisions made in 2016 and 2017. “The Committees have reached an agreement with the Department of Justice to access the documents we have been requesting for months. We look forward to reviewing the information to better understand the decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016 and 2017. Congress has a constitutional responsibility to preserve the integrity of our justice system by ensuring transparency and accountability of actions taken.” Background: In October 2017, the Committees opened a joint investigation into the decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016 and 2017. In December 2017, the Committees sent a follow-up letter requesting documents and information regarding the FBI's decision making in 2016 and 2017. On March 22, the House Judiciary Committee issued a subpoena to the Department of Justice for documents pursuant to the Committees' joint investigation. On April 11, Chairman Goodlatte and Chairman Gowdy met with U.S. Attorney John Lausch to discuss the Committees' access to documents related to our joint investigation.
04.19.2018	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) released the following statement after the Committees received former Federal Bureau of Investigation Director James Comey’s memos. “We have long argued former Director Comey's self-styled memos should be in the public domain, subject to any classification redactions. These memos are significant for both what is in them and what is not. “Former Director Comey's memos show the President made clear he wanted allegations of collusion, coordination, and conspiracy between his campaign and Russia fully investigated. The memos also made clear the 'cloud' President Trump wanted lifted was not the Russian interference in the 2016 election cloud, rather it was the salacious, unsubstantiated allegations related to personal conduct leveled in the dossier. “The memos also show former Director Comey never wrote that he felt obstructed or threatened. While former Director Comey went to great lengths to set dining room scenes, discuss height requirements, describe the multiple times he felt complimented, and myriad other extraneous facts, he never once mentioned the most relevant fact of all, which was whether he felt obstructed in his investigation. “The memos also make certain what has become increasingly clear of late: former Director Comey has at least two different standards in his interactions with others. He chose not to memorialize conversations with President Obama, Attorney General Lynch, Secretary Clinton, Andrew McCabe or others, but he immediately began to memorialize conversations with President Trump. It is significant former Director Comey made no effort to memorialize conversations with former Attorney General Lynch despite concerns apparently significant enough to warrant his unprecedented appropriation of the charging decision away from her and the Department of Justice in July of 2016. “These memos also lay bare the notion that former Director Comey is not motivated by animus. He was willing to work for someone he deemed morally unsuited for office, capable of lying, requiring of personal loyalty, worthy of impeachment, and sharing the traits of a mob boss. Former Director Comey was willing to overlook all of the aforementioned characteristics in order to keep his job. In his eyes, the real crime was his own firing. “The memos show Comey was blind to biases within the FBI and had terrible judgment with respect to his deputy Andrew McCabe. On multiple occasions he, in his own words, defended the character of McCabe after President Trump questioned McCabe. “Finally, former Director Comey leaked at least one of these memos for the stated purpose of spurring the appointment of a Special Counsel, yet he took no steps to spur the appointment of a Special Counsel when he had significant concerns about the objectivity of the Department of Justice under Attorney General Loretta Lynch. “As we have consistently said, rather than making a criminal case for obstruction or interference with an ongoing investigation, these memos would be Defense Exhibit A should such a charge be made.”
04.18.2018	Today, the House Agriculture Committee passed H.R. 2, the Agriculture and Nutrition Act of 2018 – commonly referred to as the Farm Bill. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), who previously served as Chairman of the Agriculture Committee and currently serves as a member of the committee, released the following statement: “Ask any farmer, and they’ll tell you. It’s not an easy job. But farming remains incredibly important to not only Virginia’s economy, but to America’s economy and security as a whole. That’s why it is so important that the United States have sound agriculture policy that reflects the needs of this industry. The Agriculture and Nutrition Act passed today sets forth the path for fiscally-responsible, reform-minded policies that will help ensure agriculture remains a vital part of the American economy. “This bill is not just about rural America. It impacts folks in every part of our country. The Agriculture and Nutrition Act takes significant steps to improve the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and other anti-hunger programs, including those that work with local food banks in our communities. This bill requires those who are able-bodied to either work or participate in training for SNAP recipients so that they can learn a skill that will help them improve their lives. Most importantly, it refocuses the SNAP program on assisting those families and individuals who most need help putting food on the table. I thank Chairman Conaway for his good work on this bill, and I look forward to seeing the Farm Bill come before the full House soon.”
04.17.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement following the news that former First Lady Barbara Bush passed away today at age 92: “Barbara Bush was a remarkable woman. She was a fierce defender of her husband and her children, and a devoted wife, mother, and grandmother. With the heart of a true public servant, she dedicated herself to promoting literacy and helping to improve the lives of others through reading. I enjoyed meeting Mrs. Bush a few times over the years, including showing her around the Roanoke City Market when she visited the area. Tonight, the entire nation joins President George H.W. Bush and the Bush family as they grieve the passing of the former First Lady. Maryellen and I offer our prayers and condolences to the Bush family, and pray that they will be comforted by the many memories of Mrs. Bush that they will forever cherish.”
04.13.2018	Congress has a constitutional duty to preserve the integrity of our justice system by ensuring transparency and accountability of actions taken. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General report on former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe finding that he lacked candor with federal investigators, including under oath, on multiple occasions regarding his role in leaking to the media about the Clinton investigation. Chairman Goodlatte: “It is clear that the decision to fire former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe was the correct one. According to the Inspector General report, Mr. McCabe repeatedly lied under oath about the disclosure of information to a reporter. In doing so, he not only violated FBI policy, but he may have committed a federal crime. It is unfortunate that Mr. McCabe’s distinguished career at the FBI has ended this way, but it is apparent that Attorney General Sessions made the right decision. “The Inspector General report also appears to confirm that the Obama Justice Department sought to shut down the Clinton Foundation investigation during the 2016 presidential election. The report makes the matters under investigation by the House Judiciary and Oversight and Government Reform Committees even more pertinent. Congress has a constitutional duty to preserve the integrity of our justice system by ensuring transparency and accountability of actions taken.” Background: • In October 2017, the House Judiciary Committee and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee announced a joint investigation into decisions made and not made by the Department of Justice in 2016. • In March 2018, Goodlatte subpoenaed the Department of Justice for documents regarding charging decisions in the investigation surrounding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s private email server, potential abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and the FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility recommendation to fire former FBI Deputy Director McCabe. • Goodlatte’s statement on the firing of Mr. McCabe can be found here.
04.12.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following remarks in support of his proposed Balanced Budget Amendment (H.J.Res. 2). Click here to view a video of the remarks. Congressman Goodlatte: March 2, 1995, was a pivotal day in the history of our country. On that day, the U.S. Senate failed by one vote to send a balanced budget constitutional amendment to the states for ratification. The amendment had passed the House by the required two-thirds majority and the Senate vote was the last legislative hurdle before ratification by the states. If Congress had listened to the American people and sent that amendment to the states for ratification, we would not be facing the fiscal crisis we are today. Rather, balancing the federal budget would have been the norm, instead of the exception over the past 20 years and we would have nothing like the annual deficits and skyrocketing debt we currently face. In 1995, when the balanced budget amendment came within one vote of passing, the gross federal debt stood at $4.9 trillion; today it stands at over $20 trillion. The federal debt held by the public is rising as well and is increasing rapidly as a percentage of the country’s economic output. Unlike the past, when the debt spiked to pay for wars of finite duration and then was reduced gradually after hostilities ended—more recently, the debt has risen as a result of having to pay for entitlement programs that are of indefinite duration and difficult to reduce over time. As John Cogan of the Hoover Institute at Stanford wrote recently, “all of the increase in federal spending relative to GDP over the past seven decades is attributable to entitlement spending. Since the late 1940s, entitlement claims on the nation’s output of goods and services have risen from less than 4% to 14%. Surprising as it may seem, the share of GDP that is spent on national defense and nondefense discretionary programs combined is no higher today than it was seven decades ago.” As the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has observed, “such high and rising debt [will] have serious negative consequences ... interest rates [will] increase considerably ... productivity and wages [will be] lower ... [and] high debt increases the risk of a financial crisis.” What is particularly troubling is that the debts we are incurring under entitlement programs will burden multiple future generations. Indeed, a few years ago a cross-national study found that the United States ranked worst among 29 advanced countries in the degree to which it imposes unfair debt burdens on future generations. University of Virginia philosophy professor Loren Lomasky has written, “Theorists have devoted considerable attention to injustices committed across lines of race [and] gender ... Far less attended are concerns of intergenerational fairness. That omission is serious. Measures that have done very well by the Baby Boomers are much less generous to their children and worse still for their grandchildren … [T]he single greatest unsolved problem of justice in the developed world today is transgenerational plunder.” It’s time for Congress to stop saddling future generations with the burden of crushing debts to pay for current spending. We should not pass on to our children and grandchildren the bleak fiscal future that our unsustainable spending is creating. The only way to ensure that Congress acts with fiscal restraint over the long term is to pass a balanced budget amendment. Experience has proved time and again that Congress cannot for any significant length of time rein in excessive spending. Annual deficits and the resulting debt continue to grow due to political pressures that the Constitution’s structure no longer serves to restrain. In order for Congress to be able to consistently make the tough decisions necessary to sustain fiscal responsibility, Congress must have the external pressure of a balanced budget requirement to force it to do so. Constitutional principle will prevail where political promises have not. The Framers of the Constitution were familiar with the need for constitutional restrictions on deficit spending. When the Constitution was ratified, it was the states that had exhibited out-of-control fiscal mismanagement by issuing “bills of credit” to effectively print money to pay for projects and service debt. As a result of that lack of fiscal discipline, Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution specifically deprives states of the power to issue bills of credit. Over two hundred years later, it is the federal government that has proved its inability to adopt sound fiscal policies and it’s now time to adopt a constitutional restraint on federal fiscal mismanagement. Several versions of the balanced budget amendment have been introduced this Congress, including two I introduced this Congress as I have every Congress for the last decade. H.J. Res. 2−the version we are debating today is nearly identical to text that passed the House in 1995 and failed in the Senate by one vote. It requires that total annual outlays not exceed total annual receipts. It also requires a true majority of each chamber to pass tax increases and a three-fifths majority to raise the debt limit. Today is the day we can turn proposals into legislative action. Our extraordinary fiscal crisis demands an extraordinary solution. We must rise above partisanship and join together to send a balanced budget amendment to the states for ratification. I urge all my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment and in freeing our children and grandchildren from the burden of a crippling debt they had no hand in creating, so they can be free to chart their own futures for themselves and for their own posterity.
04.11.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement regarding the announcement by Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) that he will not seek re-election: “Speaker Ryan has served the people of Wisconsin’s First Congressional District, as well as his fellow Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, with great distinction. The role of Speaker is no easy task and one he was reluctant to take, but Paul has handled it with the thoughtful, respectful, and policy-driven approach we have come to expect from him. His achievements during his short time in this role will benefit Americans for generations to come. I know that this was not a decision made lightly, and Paul’s leadership will be missed in the House. I am honored to call Paul a friend, and I wish him and his family the very best.”
04.11.2018	Today, President Trump signed into law the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA), a product of the House Judiciary Committee. This legislation provides restitution for sex trafficking victims and enhances criminal penalties for websites that facilitate illegal prostitution or sex trafficking. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded the enactment of FOSTA in the statement below. Goodlatte: “I applaud President Trump for signing into law legislation that combats the scourge of online sex trafficking. The Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act is already having an immediate impact to end these terrible crimes. In the days after Congress passed FOSTA, numerous websites advertising prostitution shut down because of the strong criminal provisions contained in the bill. And this week, an indictment was unsealed in the District of Arizona charging the operators of Backpage.com with a variety of offenses, mainly focused on facilitating prostitution. This demonstrates why the House approach will be the most effective tool in the bill to allow state and local prosecutors to bring these types of charges against prostitution websites that host sex trafficking ads. FOSTA provides harsher penalties for bad actor websites that facilitate these horrendous criminal acts and it reaffirms, in the strongest terms, that selling women and girls is wrong and will not be tolerated. The enactment of FOSTA will make the internet safer, dismantle this insidious market, and prevent further victimization.” What FOSTA does: • Holds Bad Actors Accountable: clarifies that section 230 of the CDA does NOT grant immunity to websites that facilitate sex trafficking • Creates a New Federal Crime: websites that have the intent to promote or facilitate illegal prostitution can be prosecuted under the new 18 U.S.C 2421A created by the bill • Increases Criminal Penalties: prosecutors can seek higher penalties for websites who promote the illegal prostitution of 5 or more persons or act with reckless disregard for the fact that sex trafficking occurs on their website • Enforces Existing Laws: allows state and local prosecutors to enforce sex trafficking statutes and the new 2421A • Provides Restitution for Victims: gives victims of sex trafficking a pathway to sue bad actor websites for conduct violating the new criminal law, 2421A Background: The House Judiciary Committee last year held a hearing to review the impact of the Communications Decency Act on sex trafficking online. In December 2017, the Committee approved FOSTA by voice vote, and the House of Representatives approved it in February 2018.
04.11.2018	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 32-0 the Music Modernization Act (H.R. 5447), bipartisan legislation that updates several key provisions of U.S. copyright law regarding music licensing. This consensus legislation is a product of the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive copyright review and was introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Vice Chairman Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Representative Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), former House Judiciary Committee Chairman and current Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), and Representative Ted Deutch (D-Fla.). Chairman Goodlatte released the following statement on today’s Committee passage of the Music Modernization Act: “Today’s Committee passage of the bipartisan Music Modernization Act is the culmination of the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive multi-year review of our nation’s copyright laws, as well as years of effort by interested stakeholders and many members of our Committee. This legislation, which is the first major update to our music licensing laws in decades, brings early 20th century music laws for the analog era into the 21st Century digital era. “I want to thank all of my colleagues, especially Representative Doug Collins, who have worked tirelessly on our Committee’s comprehensive copyright review and various aspects of our music licensing package. I look forward to a vote on the Music Modernization Act by the full House soon.” Key Provisions of the Music Modernization Act include: Title I – Music Modernization Act Reflects how modern digital music services operate by creating a blanket licensing system to quickly license and pay for musical work copyrights Discourages music litigation that generates legal settlements in favor of simply ensuring that artists and copyright owners are paid in the first place without such litigation Ends the flawed U.S. Copyright Office bulk notice of intent system that allows royalties to not be paid Implements uniform rate setting standards to be used by the Copyright Royalty Board for all music services Shifts the costs of the new licensing collective created by the bill to those who benefit from the collective - the licensees Updates how certain rate court cases are assigned in the Southern District of New York Title II -- Compensating Legacy Artists for their Songs, Service, and Important Contributions to Society (CLASSICS) Act Provides a public performance right for pre-1972 recordings Title III -- Allocation for Music Producers (AMP) Act Ensures that record producers, sound engineers, and other creative professionals receive compensation for their work More information on the House Judiciary Committee’s copyright review can be found here.
04.10.2018	The Music Modernization Act, which is the first major update to our music licensing laws in decades, is vital to promoting American creativity and innovation in the digital age. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Vice Chairman Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Representative Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), former House Judiciary Committee Chairman and current Science, Space, and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), and Representative Ted Deutch (D-Fla.) today introduced the Music Modernization Act (H.R. 5447), a consensus music licensing bill. This legislation, which is the product of the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive copyright review, is designed to significantly update several key provisions of U.S. copyright law regarding music licensing. Much of the current licensing system was established in an analog song-by-song era using compulsory licenses first established in 1909. The House Judiciary Committee will mark up the Music Modernization Act on Wednesday, April 11. Chairman Goodlatte released the following statement on the introduction of the Music Modernization Act: “Our nation’s copyright laws, and the exclusive rights they grant to artists and creators, have made the U.S. the world leader in creativity. However, there is little doubt that our copyright system faces new challenges today. One of the top priorities of my chairmanship has been to conduct a wide review of our nation’s copyright laws to determine whether the laws are still working in the digital age. “I am pleased that after extensive discussions between members and interested stakeholders we have produced a legislative package that will make important and long overdue updates to our copyright laws to ensure American music creators are properly recognized and rewarded for their works. The Music Modernization Act, which is the first major update to our music licensing laws in decades, is vital to promoting American creativity and innovation in the digital age.” Key Provisions of the Music Modernization Act include: Title I – Music Modernization Act • Reflects how modern digital music services operate by creating a blanket licensing system to quickly license and pay for musical work copyrights • Discourages music litigation that generates legal settlements in favor of simply ensuring that artists and copyright owners are paid in the first place without such litigation • Ends the flawed U.S. Copyright Office bulk notice of intent system that allows royalties to not be paid • Implements uniform rate setting standards to be used by the Copyright Royalty Board for all music services • Shifts the costs of the new licensing collective created by the bill to those who benefit from the collective - the licensees • Updates how certain rate court cases are assigned in the Southern District of New York Title II -- Compensating Legacy Artists for their Songs, Service, and Important Contributions to Society (CLASSICS) Act • Provides a public performance right for pre-1972 recordings Title III -- Allocation for Music Producers (AMP) Act • Ensures that record producers, sound engineers, and other creative professionals receive compensation for their work More information on the House Judiciary Committee’s copyright review can be found here.
04.09.2018	Congress, which the Founders endowed with the ability to regulate interstate commerce, is actively seeking a solution to the online sales tax issue. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) joined a bipartisan, bicameral group of 15 Members of Congress to file an amicus brief in the pending Supreme Court ruling on South Dakota v. Wayfair. Chairman Goodlatte: “Congress, which the Founders endowed with the ability to regulate interstate commerce, is actively seeking a solution to the online sales tax issue. Our constituents, our small businesses with storefronts, and our local internet sellers expect us to fix this problem as their elected representatives. We are working towards a solution that will promote fairness for all types of retailers without violating the principle of ‘no regulation without representation. That principle preserves the political accountability that is essential to deter onerous compliance burdens. “However, it will be more difficult to fulfill our Constitutional obligation if the Supreme Court intervenes with a unilateral decision. As friends of the court, we merely ask that Congress be allowed to do its job to resolve the complicated issue of online sales tax.” Background: Earlier this year, Chairman Goodlatte filed an amicus brief asking the Supreme Court to deny review of the South Dakota v. Wayfair case so that Congress could finish its work on the remote sales tax issue. Chairman Goodlatte has been at the forefront of efforts to resolve the complex issue of online sales tax, and has been an outspoken advocate for keeping internet access free from burdensome taxes. From his negotiations regarding online sales tax, Chairman Goodlatte established seven principles of remote sales tax that must be met for a successful legislative compromise on the issue.
04.05.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement regarding the announcement that his bill, H.J.Res 2, will be brought to the House Floor for a vote: “A balanced budget amendment has been one of the highest priorities of my tenure in Congress. A constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget would finally bring discipline to federal spending and would benefit generations to come. I have demonstrated my commitment to fiscal responsibility by introducing constitutional amendments to mandate a balanced budget every congress since 2007. I commend the decision made by House leadership to bring H.J.Res. 2 to the floor for a vote. I challenge my colleagues in the House and Senate to do what is morally right and responsible by passing this amendment and sending it on to the states for ratification.” Background: H.J.Res. 2 is a constitutional amendment for a balanced budget introduced by Congressman Bob Goodlatte in January 2017. Specifically, H.J.Res. 2 requires that Congress not spend more than it receives in revenue. It also requires a true majority in both the House and the Senate to pass tax increases and a three-fifths supermajority to raise the debt limit. H.J.Res. 2 is identical to a balanced budget amendment considered by the full House of Representatives during the 112th Congress.
03.29.2018	We applaud the Attorney General for demonstrating his commitment to this investigation by selecting an individual outside of Washington, D.C. to lead the review. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) released this statement following the announcement that Attorney General Jeff Sessions will tap U.S. Attorney John W. Huber to investigate the actions of the Department of Justice in 2016 and 2017: “We are encouraged that Attorney General Sessions has designated U.S. Attorney John W. Huber to investigate the actions of the Department of Justice and FBI in 2016 and 2017. While we continue to believe the appointment of a second Special Counsel is necessary, this is a step in the right direction. We expect that U.S. Attorney Huber, given his reputation, will conduct an independent and thorough investigation. Such an investigation is critical to restoring the reputation of both the Bureau and DOJ in the eyes of the American people. “We applaud the Attorney General for demonstrating his commitment to this investigation by selecting an individual outside of Washington, D.C. to lead the review. We think it is important that Mr. Huber report directly to the Attorney General since the Attorney General, as the head of the Justice Department, reserves the right to appoint a special counsel in the future. “In the meantime we intend to continue our investigation into the decisions made and not made by DOJ in 2016 and 2017.”
03.27.2018	Veterans wishing to participate in the commemoration must be residents of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia. All Vietnam veterans in attendance will receive a pin to honor their service. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte announced today that he will host a Vietnam Veterans Commemoration on Thursday, April 19, in Woodstock to honor the men and women who served our country during the Vietnam Era: “On March 29, 1973, the last American combat troops were withdrawn from Vietnam. Tragically, when they returned to the United States, these veterans, like many who returned earlier in the war, were greeted with a cold, and at times hostile, reception. Their stories remind us that most returning veterans were not even acknowledged for their sacrifice. While the United States has worked to correct this mistake over the last few decades, there is more we can all do to honor Vietnam veterans. “As we mark the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War, I will host a Vietnam Veterans Commemoration to recognize and thank these veterans for their service and sacrifice. My staff will also be on hand to assist veterans who need help in dealing with the Department of Veterans Affairs or other federal agencies. If you, or a veteran you know, would like to be recognized, I encourage you to register online or call my Harrisonburg office. It has been an honor to host these special commemorations around the Sixth District, and I look forward to meeting many more of the men and women who served our country at this event in Woodstock.” Logistics/Registration Thursday, April 19, at 4:30PM Registration begins at 4PM Woodstock National Guard Armory (Click here for a map) 451 Hoover Road Woodstock, Virginia 24450 Vietnam veterans are asked to register in advance by visiting Goodlatte.House.Gov/VietnamVeterans. For questions, or to register by phone, please call Congressman Goodlatte’s office at 540-432-2391. Additional Information The Vietnam Veterans Commemoration will honor veterans who served during the Vietnam Era from November 1, 1955 to May 15, 1975. Veterans wishing to participate in the commemoration must be residents of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia. All Vietnam veterans in attendance will receive a pin to honor their service. Constituent service staff will also be on hand to assist veterans with issues they may have with the Department of Veterans Affairs or other federal agencies. Family members and friends of Vietnam veterans are invited to attend; however, please understand that seating for veterans or those with disabilities will be prioritized. Congressman Goodlatte is a participant in the United States of America Vietnam War Commemorative Partner Program. Click here to learn more about the program.
03.23.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, recently sat down with AgDay TV host Clinton Griffiths to discuss his bill, the Agricultural Guestworker Act. This bill creates a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers and is also contained in the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). “Labor for agriculture is the number one problem I hear from many farmers and ranchers. We took the opportunity to write a bill that looks at this problem from the perspective of the farmer … We want agriculture’s concerns to be addressed. This is one of the most important sectors of our economy and it is the sector of our economy most impacted by labor shortages.” Click here to watch.
03.22.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today subpoenaed the Department of Justice for documents regarding charging decisions in the investigation surrounding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s private email server, potential abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, and the FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility recommendation to fire former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. Last year, the House Judiciary Committee and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee announced a joint investigation into decisions made and not made by the Department of Justice in 2016. As part of the joint investigation, Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy have repeatedly requested that the Justice Department hand over the 1.2 million documents relating to the investigation into former Secretary Clinton’s use of a private email server to send and receive classified information. To date, the Committees have received only a few thousand of the 1.2 million documents provided to the Inspector General. And since the Committees launched their investigation, it has come to light that the FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility recommended the dismissal of former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, based in part on events related to the Clinton investigation. Additionally, in February 2018, Chairman Goodlatte requested that the Justice Department and FBI provide documents related to potential abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a national security tool that allows the intelligence community to surveil foreign targets outside of the United States. To date, no documents have been provided to the House Judiciary Committee in response to this request Below is the text of the letter to Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein subpoenaing these documents. The signed letter and subpoena can be found here. The Honorable Rod J. Rosenstein Deputy Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Ave. NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Mr. Rosenstein, Four months have passed since Chairman Gowdy and I, along with Representatives Jordan, Meadows, Buck, and Ratcliffe, wrote you seeking documents related to our ongoing investigation regarding charging decisions in the investigation surrounding former Secretary Clinton’s private email server in 2016. To date, the Department has only produced a fraction of the documents that have been requested. In addition, in early February, I wrote the Department and the Federal Bureau of Investigation seeking documents related to potential abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. No documents have been provided to the Committee in response to this request. Given the Department’s ongoing delays in producing these documents, I am left with no choice but to issue the enclosed subpoena to compel production of these documents. Moreover, since our requests for documents related to the Clinton email server investigation were made, it has come to light that the FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility recommended the dismissal of former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe. This recommendation appears to be based, at least in part, on events related to the investigation surrounding former Secretary Clinton’s private email server. Accordingly, the subpoena additionally covers all documents and communications relied upon by FBI’s Office of Professional Responsibility in reaching its decision to recommend the dismissal of former Deputy Director McCabe. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. If any part of the production has been designated as classified pursuant to Executive Order 13526, please contact Committee majority staff so that arrangements may be made to ensure that the documents are handled appropriately within the House. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
03.21.2018	On Tuesday, March 20, 2018, the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee held a hearing on “Preventing Violence in America: An Examination of Law Enforcement Information Sharing and Misguided Public Policy.” Witnesses at this hearing discussed lapses in information sharing between local and federal law enforcement, as well as public policy guidance that limits the ability of law enforcement officers to enforce the law and prevent violent crimes. Background: On February 14, 2018, 19-year-old Nikolas Cruz brought a weapon to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida and killed 17 students and staff. Despite several tips given to local and federal law enforcement, warning signs noticed by mental health professionals and school administrators, Cruz avoided a criminal record, and his case was closed by the FBI prior to the Parkland shooting. Hearing Takeaways: The FBI did not adequately investigate tips describing Cruz’s violent behavior, and did not share information with local law enforcement or school officials that could have assisted in preventing Cruz from bringing a gun to school. Despite numerous warnings about Cruz’s behavior, local police—Parkland Police Department and Broward County Sheriff—never arrested Cruz or adequately investigated tips. Evidence also shows that Cruz benefitted from a new disciplinary approach by the Broward County School system, in which Cruz was never taken into custody or expelled for his violent actions. This guidance issued by the Obama Administration on eliminating the “school-to-prison pipeline” allowed Cruz to escape accountability for his actions and keep his criminal record clean, which allowed him to pass a background check that enabled him to purchase a firearm. Important Moments from the Hearing: Chairman Goodlatte: “Our nation’s safety depends on law enforcement at all levels seamlessly sharing information, but that information is only as good as what is documented and entered into systems. When information is inaccurate or missing, or derogatory information is not generated because of misguided public policy, the ability of law enforcement to protect us is severely impaired.” WATCH. Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner:“This was a preventable tragedy. And it was a preventable tragedy because law enforcement missed a whole lot of tips that Nikolas Cruz was a bad person and actually put up on the internet the fact that he wanted to become a professional school shooter. There have been misguided policies where people who are disruptive at school end up not being arrested or charged with a misdemeanor, even though that’s what they’ve committed. And nothing gets put on their record.” WATCH. Representative Gowdy: “Any time you have a hearing title that has the word ‘preventable’ in it, I think we owe it to American citizens to discuss the limitations of our justice system.” WATCH. Representative Rutherford: “That is exactly what concerns me: when law enforcement collaborates with school boards to not enforce the law.” WATCH. Actions: Last week, the House of Representatives passed the STOP School Violence Act, which provides enhanced training, technology, and coordination with law enforcement to identify and respond to threats in educational facilities. At the request of House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich briefed Members of Congress on the FBI’s handling of the Parkland shooting.
03.21.2018	Tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 5247, the Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2018. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 5247: “Millions of Americans are diagnosed with a terminal illness each year, and it is heartbreaking to watch loved ones suffer when potential treatments exist, but are not available to them. For those not accepted into clinical trials or granted an exemption to use the treatment, many will miss the opportunity to try new drugs and therapies due to a lengthy approval process. The bipartisan Right to Try Act restores hope for these patients by granting access to medications that have passed basic safety testing by the Food and Drug Administration but are not yet available to the general public. With this legislation, those with serious illness will be able to access potentially life-saving treatments. Many states have already enacted a version of this bill, and it’s time that the federal government did the same.”
03.19.2018	On Tuesday, March 20, 2018, at 10:00 a.m., the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee will hold a hearing titled, “Preventable Violence in America: An Examination of Law Enforcement Information Sharing and Misguided Public Policy.” The hearing will examine the lapses that occur at federal, state, and local law enforcement levels with regards to information sharing about potential mass shooting events, including the recent shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. It will also examine misguided public policy decisions that prevent law enforcement from interceding against violent individuals at schools. The witnesses for Tuesday's hearing are: Panel I: Mr. David Bowdich, Deputy Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation Panel II: Mr. Timothy C. Carter, Sheriff, Shenandoah County, Virginia Mr. Max Eden, Senior Fellow, Manhattan Institute Ms. Kristen Harper, Director for Policy Development, Child Trends Chairman Goodlatte: “As more details have emerged about last month’s horrific shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, we’ve learned that the FBI, as well as state and local authorities, did not share critical information with each other despite multiple opportunities to do so. Better information sharing between federal, state, and local law enforcement may have prevented the shooting in Parkland, Florida and could help prevent future shootings from happening. Additionally, we’ve learned that the Broward County school system, which includes Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School, followed an Obama-era policy to revise its disciplinary process and prevent law enforcement from intervening when students become violent. This policy is nonsensical and endangers students, teachers, and other school personnel. “At this week’s Crime Subcommittee hearing, we will examine the current state of information sharing between federal and local law enforcement and how it can be improved. Additionally, we will review public policies that prevent law enforcement from interceding against violent students. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses to learn how we can enhance school and public safety.” Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner: “This hearing presents an opportunity to examine the shortcomings in the current information sharing structure. As a leader in the effort to create the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, I understand the importance of coordination by all levels of law enforcement. Tragedies like the Parkland school shooting highlight the need to have proper information submitted to NICS. The system is only as good as the information in its databases. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses about the policy improvements needed to protect our schools and communities.” This hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at judiciary.house.gov. Camera crews wishing to cover must be congressionally credentialed and RSVP with the House Radio-TV Gallery at (202) 225-5214.
03.17.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released this statement following the announcement that former Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Deputy Director Andrew McCabe has been dismissed from the Bureau. “I applaud Attorney General Jeff Sessions for taking action and firing former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe prior to his scheduled retirement. “Mr. McCabe’s actions have tarnished the reputation of the FBI, America’s premier law enforcement agency. In his capacity as Deputy Director, Mr. McCabe reportedly leaked internal information to the media and subsequently misled investigators about his actions. This is simply unacceptable and warrants dismissal. “Mr. McCabe’s firing, following an internal investigation and report by career civil servants at the FBI and DOJ, is important but more must be done to root out the problems at the FBI. I remain extremely troubled by the decisions made by the Bureau during the 2016 presidential election and the role senior FBI officials played in these questionable decisions and irregularities.”
03.14.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, was joined at a press conference yesterday by conservative Hispanic leaders who announced their support for the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760). Leaders attending the press conference included Alfonso Aguilar, Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, Artemio Muñiz, Texas Federation of Hispanic Republicans, Zoraida Fonalledas, National Hispanic Leader, Luis Alvarado, Latino Legislative Roundtable, Jerry Pierce, Hispanic 100, and Jose Fuentes, National Hispanic Leader and former Attorney General of Puerto Rico. Click here to watch. The Securing America’s Future Act, which has nearly 100 cosponsors, was introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.). The legislation bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, and provides a workable agricultural guestworker program.
03.14.2018	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 407-10 the Student, Teachers, and Officers Preventing (STOP) School Violence Act of 2018. This bipartisan bill, introduced by Judiciary Committee Member Representative John Rutherford (R-Fla.), creates a grant program administered by the Department of Justice to train students, teachers, school personnel, and local law enforcement how to identify and intervene early when signs of violence arise, creates an anonymous reporting system, and implements school threat assessment protocols to prevent school shootings from occurring. This bill also incorporates key elements from legislation introduced by Representatives Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Kay Granger (R-Texas), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Luke Messer (R-Ind.), Mike Bost (R-Ill.), Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), and Susan Brooks (R-Ind.). Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised today’s House approval of the STOP School Violence Act: “Violence at schools makes students feel vulnerable in a place where they should feel safe. To curb violence at our nation’s schools, the STOP School Violence Act provides a multi-layered approach to identify threats and prevent violence from taking place on school grounds. It provides much-needed resources to train students, teachers, and law enforcement officers on how to recognize and respond quickly to warning signs and provides funding for technology to keep schools secure. The bill also provides for the creation of an anonymous reporting system to provide tips about potential attacks and persons who may be inclined to commit acts of violence on campus. “The STOP School Violence Act is a good step toward making our schools safe again. We will continue to examine issues pertaining to school safety in order to create a safer environment for our nation’s children. I thank Representatives Rutherford, Chabot, Granger, Davis, Messer, Bost, Coffman, and Brooks for their collaborative work on this bill and call on the Senate to pass it swiftly so that we can better protect our nation’s kids.” Below are key elements of the STOP School Violence Act. Student Violence Prevention Training: The STOP School Violence Act provides funding for training to prevent student violence against oneself and others, including training for local law enforcement officers, school personnel, and students. Prevention training would be designed to give students and school personnel the ability to recognize and respond quickly to warning signs of school violence, and would include active shooter training. Technology to Improve School Security: The bill provides funding for technology and equipment to improve school security and prevent attacks. This includes the development and operation of anonymous reporting systems, such as mobile apps, a hot-line, and a website. Funding may also be used for metal detectors, locks, lighting, and other technologies to keep schools safe. School Threat Assessment and Crisis Intervention Teams: The legislation also contains funding for school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams so that school personnel can respond to threats before they materialize. More Coordination with Law Enforcement: Finally, the STOP School Violence Act provides funding to support law enforcement coordination efforts, and in particular, those officers who already staff schools. VIDEO: Goodlatte spoke on the House floor in support of the STOP School Violence Act.
03.14.2018	The House of Representatives today approved by voice vote the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act (H.R. 3249) to curb the rise in gang activity and violence in the United States. This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) and approved by the House Judiciary Committee last year, establishes a grant program to provide resources to state and local law enforcement agencies to combat gang activity in their communities, authorizing $50 million annually for Fiscal Year 2018 through Fiscal Year 2020. Street gang activity in the United States is on the rise. Gangs are actively recruiting middle and high school aged children across the country. Specifically, the FBI has pointed to transnational gangs, such as MS-13, as becoming an increasingly troublesome problem. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, applauded today’s House approval of the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act: “Gang violence plagues many communities across the United States, and the Commonwealth of Virginia has been particularly hard-hit by this problem. Last year, Raymond Wood was killed by suspected members of MS-13 in the congressional district that I represent. As gangs have infiltrated our neighborhoods, we must ensure local law enforcement officers have the resources needed to prevent and combat gang violence and activity. The Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act provides much-needed tools for state and local law enforcement agencies to address gang activity. I thank Congresswoman Comstock for her dedication to eradicating this public safety crisis and call on the Senate to pass this bill.” Additional Background: • In September 2017, the House of Representatives approved the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act (H.R. 3697). This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Comstock, Congressman Peter King (R-N.Y.), Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and Chairman Goodlatte combats gang violence by criminal aliens and enhances public safety. • In order to protect Americans from these violent gangs, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act ensures that alien gang members are kept off our streets by barring them from coming to the United States and detaining and removing them if they are criminal gang members or participate in gang activity. Additionally, the bill ensures that criminal alien gang members are not eligible for immigration benefits, such as asylum, special immigrant juvenile status, and temporary protected status, which are reserved for those around the world most in need of protection. • Chairman Goodlatte and Congresswoman Comstock have also called on the FBI and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to combat MS-13 gang activity in Virginia.
03.07.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that the 2018 Congressional Art Competition for high school students throughout the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia is now underway: “Over the years, I have continuously been impressed by the remarkable talents of high school students in our district. Whether it’s a drawing, painting, or photography, the Congressional Art Competition offers a unique opportunity for students to have their artwork on display in the U.S. Capitol for one year. As my time in Congress nears its end, I look forward to a final year of impressive entries from young artists of the Sixth District. I encourage all interested students to submit their artwork, and ask others to help pass information about this opportunity along.” Background: The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students who reside in the Sixth Congressional District. The winner of the Sixth District’s competition will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. on Wednesday, April 25, 2018. The format for the Sixth District’s Congressional Art Competition is as follows: • Students or instructors may take a high-quality digital photograph(s) of the artwork and send it via e-mail to Caroline Farr at Caroline.Farr@mail.house.gov. • Students or instructors may deliver their artwork in-person to one of Congressman Goodlatte’s Sixth District offices located in Roanoke, Lynchburg, Staunton, and Harrisonburg. • Students or instructors may also arrange for a member of Congressman Goodlatte's district staff to pick up the artwork at a designated location. To review the official rules and guidelines for the 2018 Congressional Art Competition and access the student release form, please visit Goodlatte.House.Gov. Submissions that do not adhere to the Competition guidelines will not be considered.
03.07.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the statement below on the Department of Justice’s lawsuit against California’s sanctuary laws: “Attorney General Sessions has made the right decision to sue California for its sanctuary laws. Sanctuary laws are designed to hamper federal immigration enforcement and impede the longstanding cooperation that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has enjoyed with state and local law enforcement. Not only are California’s laws unconstitutional since they violate the federal government’s explicit constitutional authority to write and enforce immigration laws, the laws also needlessly endanger public safety by allowing criminal aliens to roam free in our communities and make it more dangerous for law enforcement officers to apprehend criminal aliens. “The Department of Justice’s lawsuit is a critical step toward combating dangerous sanctuary laws, and I have long been a proponent of the Department using its authority to sue sanctuary jurisdictions. We must also strengthen federal law to further prevent state and local governments from enacting such reckless policies. The Securing America’s Future Act, which I introduced with Representatives McCaul, Labrador, and McSally, contains new tools to discourage the adoption of sanctuary policies. I continue to work with Members of Congress to see this important bill come up for a vote in the House of Representatives.”
03.07.2018	Today, the United States House of Representatives passed H.R. 1917, the Blocking Regulatory Interference from Closing Kilns (BRICK) Act, by a vote of 234-180-1. This bipartisan bill included provisions from the Relief from New Source Performance Standards Act, which was introduced last year by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman Collin Peterson (D-Minn.). This provision would delay emission standards for new residential wood and pellet stoves, hydronic heaters, and forced-air furnaces by three years. Congressman Goodlatte spoke in support of the BRICK Act and this provision related to wood stoves. A video of Congressman Goodlatte’s speech on the House floor, as well as his remarks as prepared, may be found below. Click here to watch. Mr. Speaker: In many rural communities, like Virginia’s Sixth Congressional District, wood burning stoves and heaters are a popular heat source. It’s a renewable and affordable way to heat your home. The EPA’s New Source Performance Standards for products like wood and pellet stoves and wood furnaces have raised significant concerns. This regulation sets forth an unrealistic and unachievable timeline for manufacturers of these products to come into compliance with the standards in time. I’ve heard from manufacturers and retailers, like England’s Stove Works in Amherst County, that it’s not that they don’t want to comply with the rule, they just need more time. For just one wood stove, it can take up to six months to complete the EPA certification process. The BRICK Act before the House today includes provisions from a bill that I introduced along with Representative Collin Peterson – the Relief from New Source Performance Standards Act. This provision is a simple one – it extends the time wood stove manufacturers have to comply with federal regulations by three years. Affordable heat is important to my constituents, and federal regulations must take into account the real world needs and time constraints of the industries that make these products and must now develop new technologies. I urge my colleagues to vote in support of this bill today to give this industry more time and ensure consumers can choose wood heat sources to help keep their families warm.
03.07.2018	Following House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy’s request for a briefing, yesterday members of the House Judiciary Committee and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee met with FBI Deputy Director David Bowdich on how the Bureau handled tips about the shooter who murdered 17 students, teachers, and school officials at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. Below are several key takeaways from the briefing. Opportunities were missed. • In September 2017, the FBI received an Internet tip from a video blogger about a threatening comment posted to a YouTube video the blogger had posted. The comment stated, “I am going to be a professional school shooter,” and was posted under the username “nikolas cruz.” • The Internet tip was routed to an FBI office in Mississippi, which, after interviewing the video blogger and conducting social media searches, closed the case in October 2017 because it lacked personal identifiable information on the user who posted the threatening comment. The agents tasked with the case could have requested assistance from YouTube to attempt to identify the user who left the comment, but determined that the United States Attorney’s Office in that region was unlikely to agree to such a request. • In January 2018, a friend of the Cruz family called the FBI tip line to report Nikolas Cruz’s troubling behavior and disturbing social media posts. The caller noted that local authorities in Parkland had also been notified of Cruz’s threatening behavior. According to Deputy Director Bowdich, the caller provided sufficient information to the tip line for the FBI to launch a probe. He noted, however, that the call taker did not ask any standard investigative probing questions during the call. • Following the tip, the call taker spoke with a supervisor but their conversation was not documented. At the time, the call taker was able to connect information about Nikolas Cruz to the September 2017 tip about the threatening YouTube comment. Despite these connected dots, the call taker and supervisor decided to not pursue the matter further and the case was closed. Further, the FBI did not contact local authorities in Parkland even though the caller stated that Parkland police had also been notified about Cruz’s disturbing behavior. • Despite multiple opportunities, the FBI did not share information with state and local authorities. Better information sharing between federal and local law enforcement may have prevented the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School. FBI admits failures and will take corrective actions. • Deputy Director Bowdich admitted there were failures and that corrective actions will be taken. The FBI has launched separate reviews of the September 2017 and January 2018 tips regarding Nikolas Cruz. • According to the Deputy Director, a preliminary report recommends stronger oversight of the tip line and better training for the tip line’s call takers and supervisors. The preliminary report also recommends better documentation for the interaction between call takers and supervisors. • The House Judiciary Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee will review the final report once it is issued to ensure all finalized recommendations are implemented. It will also review our laws to see if information sharing between federal, state, and local law enforcement can be improved to enhance public safety. • During the briefing, members also expressed concerns about whether the FBI has the capability and authority to screen social media for certain phrases, such as “school shooting.” The FBI plans to provide information to the Committees on this matter.
03.06.2018	Martha Bryant of Amherst County testified before the House Judiciary Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee about the tragic circumstances of her son’s death last year after the Central Virginia Training Center in Lynchburg closed its doors to her family. share: f t Martha Bryant of Amherst County testified before the House Judiciary Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee about the tragic circumstances of her son’s death last year after the Central Virginia Training Center in Lynchburg closed its doors to her family. Please find the text of Congressman Goodlatte’s opening statement below as well as several videos from today’s hearing. VIDEO of Goodlatte’s Opening Statement VIDEO of Martha Bryant’s Opening Remarks VIDEO of Goodlatte’s exchange with Mrs. Bryant and Witnesses *** House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) delivered the following statement at the Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee hearing on Examining Class Action Lawsuits Against Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual Disabilities (ICFs/IID): Chairman Goodlatte: Today’s hearing examines the devastating effects of class actions on the availability of Intermediate Care Facilities for Individuals with Intellectual and Development Disabilities across the country. Underlying these lawsuits is a pervasive belief that institutionalized care has little or no place in our society today. Martha Bryant, a constituent of mine, has come here to testify today about the tragic circumstances of her son’s death last year after the Central Virginia Training Center in Lynchburg, Virginia closed its doors to her family. While this scheduled closing as well as the closings of three other institutional facilities in Virginia were ultimately the result of a settlement agreement negotiated by the Department of Justice under the Obama Administration, the policies underlying DOJ’s claims are the same as those advanced by class actions. In recent years, several cases brought by the Civil Rights Division, specifically the Special Litigation Section, have blatantly disregarded the choice requirements set forth in Olmstead v. L.C. In Olmstead, the Supreme Court ruled that unjustified institutionalization is discrimination under the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), which, according to the law, encourages states to administer services “in the most integrated setting appropriate to the needs of qualified individuals with disabilities.” The Court in Olmstead specifically affirmed the right of choice by holding that an individual has a right to reject a placement. The Court also recognized that the community is not the most appropriate place for some individuals. It stated: "We emphasize that nothing in the ADA or its implementing regulations condones termination of institutional settings for persons unable to handle or benefit from community settings... Nor is there any federal requirement that community-based treatment be imposed on patients who do not desire it." Nevertheless, we are seeing a national trend towards deinstitutionalization due in part to DOJ’s efforts and through dozens of class actions that have been filed with the purpose of closing Intermediate Care Facilities as well as other Medicaid-licensed facilities. Like DOJ’s enforcement actions, class actions often sweep up individuals who do not wish to participate because they are filed under Rule 23(b)(2) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. Under Rule 23(b)(2), plaintiffs’ attorneys are not required to notify to potential members of the class and inform them of the right to opt out if they so wish. In 2012, I cosponsored a bill with Rep. Barney Frank to correct this issue, and look forward to our witness’s recommendations about whether this legislation should be introduced again. I would like to welcome Ms. Bryant and our other witnesses. I look forward to your testimony.
03.06.2018	Matters have arisen – both recently and otherwise – which necessitate the appointment of a Special Counsel. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy today called for the appointment of a Special Counsel to investigate potential bias and potential conflicts of interest and decisions made or not made by the Department of Justice in 2016 and 2017. In a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy request the appointment of a Special Counsel to review evidence of bias by any employee or agent of the DOJ, FBI, or other agencies; the decisions to charge or not charge and whether those decisions were made consistent with the applicable facts, the applicable law, and traditional investigative and prosecutorial policies and procedures; and whether the FISA process employed in the fall of 2016 and continuing into 2017 was lawful and pursuant to all relevant policies and procedures. The text of the letter is below and the signed copy can be found here. March 6, 2018 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein: Matters have arisen – both recently and otherwise – which necessitate the appointment of a Special Counsel. We do not make this observation and attendant request lightly. We have tremendous respect for the women and men of federal law enforcement and federal prosecution. In the vast majority of fact patterns, the Department of Justice, the career prosecutors and law enforcement professionals who serve there, and the U.S. Attorneys’ Offices throughout the country are fully capable of investigating, evaluating, charging where appropriate, and prosecuting matters for which there is federal jurisdiction. Nevertheless, there are instances in which an actual or potential conflict of interest exists or appears to exist, or there are matters in which the public good would be furthered, and an independent Special Counsel is warranted as the relevant Federal regulations provide. We believe that, in the case of certain decisions made and not made by the Department of Justice and FBI in 2016 and 2017, both an actual conflict of interest exists and separately, but equally significantly, the public interest requires the appointment of a Special Counsel. With respect to potential and actual conflicts of interest, decisions made and not made by both former and current Department of Justice and FBI officials have led to legitimate questions and concerns from the people whom we all serve. There is evidence of bias, trending toward animus, among those charged with investigating serious cases. There is evidence political opposition research was used in court filings. There is evidence this political opposition research was neither vetted before it was used nor fully revealed to the relevant tribunal. Questions have arisen with the FISA process and these questions and concerns threaten to impugn both public and congressional confidence in significant counterintelligence program processes and those charged with overseeing and implementing these counterintelligence processes. Because the decisions of both former and current Department of Justice and FBI officials are at issue, we do not believe the Department of Justice is capable of investigating and evaluating these fact patterns in a fashion likely to garner public confidence. In addition, while we have confidence in the Inspector General for the Department of Justice, the DOJ IG does not have the authority to investigate other governmental entities or former employees of the Department, the Bureau, or other agencies. Some have been reluctant to call for the appointment of a Special Counsel because such an appointment should be reserved for those unusual cases where existing investigative and prosecutorial entities cannot adequately discharge those duties. We believe this is just such a case. Accordingly, we request that you appoint a Special Counsel to review decisions made and not made by the Department of Justice and the FBI in 2016 and 2017, including but not limited to evidence of bias by any employee or agent of the DOJ, FBI, or other agencies involved in the investigation; the decisions to charge or not charge and whether those decisions were made consistent with the applicable facts, the applicable law, and traditional investigative and prosecutorial policies and procedures; and whether the FISA process employed in the fall of 2016 was appropriate and devoid of extraneous influence. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important request. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee Trey Gowdy Chairman House Oversight and Government Reform Committee
02.27.2018	The House of Representatives today passed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (FOSTA), a product of the House Judiciary Committee. This legislation provides restitution for sex trafficking victims and enhances criminal penalties for websites that facilitate illegal prostitution or sex trafficking. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) has issued the following statement: Chairman Goodlatte: “Over the past year, the House Judiciary Committee has worked directly with prosecutors to understand how new legislation could help them enforce existing laws and hold bad actors accountable for sex trafficking online. We have also explored changes to the criminal code that would disincentivize websites from knowingly promoting or facilitating illegal prostitution. The summation of the Committee’s investigative work is FOSTA, a bill that gives restitution to victims and creates harsher penalties for bad actor websites that facilitate horrendous criminal acts. I believe the provisions in this legislation will make the internet safer and give victims the criminal and civil means to punish wrongdoers and move forward with their lives.” Background: What FOSTA does: Holds Bad Actors Accountable: clarifies that section 230 of the CDA does NOT grant immunity to websites that facilitate sex trafficking. Creates a New Federal Crime: websites that have the intent to promote or facilitate illegal prostitution can be prosecuted under the new 18 U.S.C 2421A created by the bill. Increases Criminal Penalties: prosecutors can seek higher penalties for websites who promote the illegal prostitution of 5 or more persons or act with reckless disregard for the fact that sex trafficking occurs on their website. Enforces Existing Laws: allows state and local prosecutors to enforce sex trafficking statutes and the new 2421A. Provides Restitution for Victims: gives victims of sex trafficking a pathway to sue bad actor websites for conduct violating the new criminal law, 2421A. The House Judiciary Committee last year held a hearing to review the impact of the Communications Decency Act on sex trafficking online. In December 2017, the Committee approved FOSTA by voice vote.
02.23.2018	The American Farm Bureau Federation released the following statement on the inclusion of the Agricultural Guestworker Act in the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760): The American Farm Bureau Federation is calling on all members of Congress to support House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte in his goal of including the AG Act in the Securing America’s Future Act. “We are at a crisis point in agriculture,” American Farm Bureau President Zippy Duvall said. “Chairman Bob Goodlatte wants to address our problem and has included the AG Act in pending legislation related to the DACA issue. Chairman Goodlatte’s AG Act would establish a new H-2C agriculture worker program that is far superior to the existing H-2A program. The new H-2C program offers a much brighter future for agriculture. For farmers in sectors like dairy, mushrooms and others, who are excluded from H-2A and have nowhere else to turn, the H-2C program offers a path forward in meeting their future labor needs. “At the same time, we are continuing to work with Chairman Goodlatte and other members of Congress to provide greater assurances on how the AG Act would affect our existing workforce. Farmers today rely on these workers. They sustain our farms. They are part of the fabric of many rural economies. Farm Bureau policy supports providing these workers the opportunity to earn permanent legal status. That is our goal and we will do everything we can to achieve it. “We applaud Chairman Goodlatte’s leadership and support him in his effort to include a solution for agriculture’s labor issue in the Securing America’s Future Act.”
02.23.2018	On Tuesday, February 27, 2018 at 11:00 a.m., the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations will hold a hearing on the Implementation of the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act. This hearing will examine the successes and challenges of the Survivors’ Bill of Rights, including legislation passed in the states to codify rights for sexual assault survivors, resources available to victims, additional actions from federal agencies on best practices and the preservation of evidence, and public response to the bill. Witnesses for the hearing include: • Amanda Nguyen, CEO and Founder, RISE • Evan Rachel Wood, Artist and Advocate, Survivor • Lauren Libby, Chief of Staff, RISE, Survivor • Rebecca O’Connor, Vice President, Rape Abuse Incest National Network (RAINN) House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) has issued the following statement ahead of the hearing: Chairman Goodlatte: “Since this bill became law, the nation has been bombarded with accounts of sexual assault—including stories of abuse in amateur athletics and rampant sexual harassment in workplaces across the country. “Today, it is clear that the ‘Survivors’ Bill of Rights’ is more necessary than ever. I am pleased to announce this hearing to review the implementation of this bill to ensure that it is improving the experience of survivors in our justice system so that they have access to the resources they need. “I want to thank my colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee for their tireless work on this issue, and especially our distinguished panel of witnesses, many of whom have dedicated their lives to speaking out about the difficulties faced by survivors. I look forward to a meaningful discussion at the hearing.” Background: The Survivors’ Bill of Rights establishes that survivors of sexual assault in federal cases have a right to a sexual assault evidence collection kit, and that they are notified in writing before the kit is destroyed, can request preservation of the kit, and are informed of important results from a forensic examination. The House Judiciary Committee approved H.R. 5578 in a bipartisan fashion, and it passed the House of Representatives unanimously in 2016. Chief sponsor of the legislation, Rep. Mimi Walters (R-Calif.) released a video discussing the importance of the bill. Earlier this year, the House of Representatives passed the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act, a product of the House Judiciary Committee. The legislation was signed into law by President Trump last week.
02.16.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today on the nomination of Thomas T. Cullen to serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia: “The position of United States Attorney plays a critical role in ensuring justice is served in our communities and the rule of law outlined in our Constitution is followed. I applaud President Trump’s nomination of Thomas Cullen to fill this post in the Western District of Virginia. Mr. Cullen is highly qualified for this role. I hope the Senate will act quickly to confirm his position.” Background Information: Mr. Cullen is currently a principal at Woods Rogers PLC, representing clients in complex civil and criminal litigation. Prior to joining the law firm, Mr. Cullen served as an Assistant United States Attorney in both the Western District of Virginia and the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Cullen also served as a law clerk to Judge Roger L. Gregory of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit and to Judge Robert E. Payne of the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. Mr. Cullen earned his B.A. from Furman University and his J.D. from William & Mary School of Law, where he was inducted into the Order of the Coif.
02.16.2018	On January 5, 2018, the FBI received a tip about Cruz. According to FBI's protocols, this information “should have been assessed as a potential threat to life.” share: f t Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) sent a letter to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director Christopher Wray regarding tips the FBI received on Nikolas Cruz, the shooter who tragically murdered 17 students, teachers, and school officials at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School this week. Excerpts from the letter: In the wake of this tragic shooting, Cruz's past has been sifted through to determine whether there were warning signs that he was capable of such monstrous actions. There were. On January 5, 2018, the FBI received a tip about Cruz. According to FBI's protocols, this information “should have been assessed as a potential threat to life.” The Committees are seeking to understand these protocols and why they were not followed in this case. Accordingly, the Committees request the FBI brief the Committees on the tip, protocols, and FBI's actions before and after the incident as soon as possible, but no later than March 2, 2018. Full text of the letter can be reviewed here.
02.15.2018	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act of 2017, a product of the House Judiciary Committee. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement: “This legislation provides important reforms to the ADA that will provide more access for persons with disabilities, educate businesses on the proper way to provide public accommodations, and fend off costly and wasteful lawsuits. The ADA Education and Reform Act safeguards the best intentions of the ADA, while including common sense solutions to make sure the law is not abused by misguided trial lawyers. I am pleased that the House has voted to provide more access for more Americans more quickly, and I thank my colleague Representative Ted Poe for his important contributions to this bipartisan bill.” Background: The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a landmark piece of legislation that protects those with disabilities. However, some have taken advantage of the system to file exorbitant lawsuits for monetary gain. Some plaintiffs’ attorneys have even targeted multiple businesses they have never frequented for minor compliance issues and then demanded large fees – when compliance could have been achieved faster and cheaper if only fair notice and an opportunity to fix the problem had been given. The bill alters the public accommodation provisions in Title III of the ADA to remedy this problem. Under this legislation, those who seek action against businesses for ADA compliance issues must first give a written notice. Businesses then have 60 days to respond in writing and 120 days to make necessary changes before being subject to civil action. H.R. 620 also instructs the Department of Justice to create an education program for state and local governments and property owners regarding ADA compliance.
02.13.2018	I-81 is a key route for transportation in Virginia as well as through much of the eastern United States. While high traffic is evidence of the growing economic strength of the commonwealth, high usage has an impact on road conditions, congestion, and safety share: f t Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) sent a letter to several members of the Virginia General Assembly and local Chambers of Commerce in response to their inquiries regarding improvements to the I-81 corridor. Click here to view the original letter from state lawmakers. The text of the letter is available below. A PDF copy may be found here. Dear Members of the Virginia General Assembly, Thank you for your January 25, 2018, letter regarding the future of Interstate 81. As you know, since being elected to Congress, I have commuted via I-81 every week from my home in Roanoke to Washington, D.C. I also regularly use the route when visiting communities throughout the Sixth Congressional District. As a fellow I-81 driver, I share your concerns for the long-term planning, improvement, and safety of the interstate and appreciate you taking the time to send me your thoughts. I-81 is a key route for transportation in Virginia as well as through much of the eastern United States. While high traffic is evidence of the growing economic strength of the commonwealth, high usage has an impact on road conditions, congestion, and safety. We agree that significant efforts must be made in order to fully address improvements to the 325 miles of I-81 in Virginia. For Fiscal Year 2018, the Virginia Department of Transportation (VDOT) estimated $1.06 billion of its budget, roughly 19.5%, would be provided in dedicated funding by the federal government. I believe that VDOT continues to serve as the best entity to fairly evaluate, create, and execute strategies to address infrastructure needs across the commonwealth using both state and federal funding. Additionally, I recognize the challenges of fairly addressing infrastructure needs in urban, suburban, and rural areas of Virginia while operating under funding constraints that limit the ability of the commonwealth to create long-term budgets to support a holistic revitalization strategy for I-81. Throughout the years there have been significant hurdles to the creation of such a comprehensive approach, including environmental concerns, eminent domain, and the obstacle of rerouting infrastructure through protected historic and natural sites. These hurdles, coupled with fiscal constraints and the controversial nature of funding mechanisms such as tolling, which has historically been unpopular in many communities, has resulted in a mammoth project that is not easily undertaken. However, these areas must be addressed by VDOT in order to move forward with an efficient and achievable plan of action. As you know, since 2011, the Republican Conference in the House of Representatives has banned the use of earmarks, precluding Virginia’s congressional delegation from pursuing targeted appropriations for projects such as I-81. In light of this restriction, I have continued to support the commonwealth’s applications to federal grant programs. In November, I jointly authored a letter to Department of Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao voicing support for Virginia’s $52.9 million request from the Infrastructure for Rebuilding America (INFRA) grant program for the Interstate 81 Corridor Improvement Program. It is my understanding that INFRA grants are expected to be awarded during the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2018. Your letter also requested that the Virginia congressional delegation support I-81 through a national infrastructure initiative directed by the current administration. As you know, the White House recently announced a proposal to rebuild and maintain America’s infrastructure, outlining a $200 billion appropriations request from Congress, in order to spur an estimated $1.5 trillion in investment. The proposal also requests reforms in the permitting process and the return to major decision-making authority to each state. As this proposal is considered by the House of Representatives, please know that I will be evaluating any additional options to support I-81, and will be in close contact with officials from all levels of government, including members of Virginia’s General Assembly, should such an occasion arise. I stand ready to assist the commonwealth in navigating the regulatory approval and grants process and will continue to monitor additional opportunities to support the I-81 corridor whenever possible. Please feel free to contact our offices should you have questions or require additional information.
02.02.2018	At our nation’s service academies, students have the opportunity to receive a quality educational experience and training to become the next generation of leaders. share: f t Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced his nomination of several individuals from the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to our nation’s service academies as members of the graduating Class of 2022. A nomination must be received from either a Member of Congress or the Vice President in order to compete for an appointment to the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, or U.S. Naval Academy. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “America’s military has produced some of our country’s most distinguished leaders. These young men and women have expressed an interest in following in their footsteps, and I applaud them for their willingness to protect and defend the United States. At our nation’s service academies, students have the opportunity to receive a quality educational experience and training to become the next generation of leaders. It is my honor to nominate these individuals to compete for an appointment to a service academy. I am confident that those selected for an appointment will serve the United States with distinction. Folks in the Sixth District can be proud of these nominees. I wish them the best and thank them again for being willing to serve their country.” Sixth District Nominations for the Class of 2022 U.S. Air Force Academy Ashton Ashley, son of Jeanette and Kenneth Ashley, is a senior at William Byrd High School and a resident of Roanoke. Qu’Daja Manns, daughter of Mary French, is a senior at William Fleming High School and a resident of Roanoke. Nathan Marraccini, son of Christine and Joe Marraccini, is a senior at E.C. Glass High School and a resident of Lynchburg. Leah Pultz, daughter of Monica Rutledge and Darren Pultz, is a senior at Buffalo Gap High School and a resident of Swoope. Shennan Waldron, daughter of Raymond and Wynne Waldron, is a graduate of Central High School and a resident of Fort Valley. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Rennie Bowersox, son of Rennie and Tina Bowersox, is a senior at Wilson Memorial High School and a resident of Staunton. Brendan Murray, son of Mike and Nina Murray, is a senior at Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Calvin Robb, son of Kendra and Jeff Robb, is a senior at Spotswood High School and a resident of Rockingham. U.S. Military Academy at West Point Austin Askew, son of Alan and Amy Askew, is a senior at Liberty Christian Academy and a resident of Forest. Andrew Caywood, son of Rich and Amy Caywood, is a senior at Faith Christian School and a resident of Roanoke. Lillian Hereford, daughter of William and Alison Hereford, is a senior at Stuart Hall and a resident of Staunton. Mary Miller, daughter of Betty Reese and Jeff Miller, is a senior at Turner Ashby High School and a resident of Dayton. Calvin Robb, son of Kendra and Jeff Robb, is a senior at Spotswood High School and a resident of Rockingham. Zachary Wright, son of Cindy and Tim Wright, is a senior at Broadway High School and a resident of Linville. U.S. Naval Academy Rennie Bowersox, son of Rennie and Tina Bowersox, is a senior at Wilson Memorial High School and a resident of Staunton. Jack Buchanan, son of Harry and Kristie Buchanan, is a senior at Lord Botetourt High School and a resident of Roanoke. Charles Cathcart, son of Charlie and Cheryl Cathcart, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. Annisten Elliott, daughter of Robert and Debora Elliot, is a senior at E.C. Glass High School and is a resident of Lynchburg. Clayton Fortney, son of Clay and Mary Fortney, is a senior at Skyline High School and a resident of Front Royal. Tanner Gage, son of Matthew and Michel Gage, is a senior at Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Ava Harding, daughter of Jane and John Harding, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Ethan Hogan, son of Amy and Tom Hogan, is a senior at Lord Botetourt High School and a resident of Roanoke. Luke Martin, son of Susan and Timothy Martin, is a senior at James River High School and a resident of Buchanan. William Miller, son of William and Kristen Miller, is a student at Virginia Military Institute and a resident of Buchanan. Brendan Murray, son of Mike and Nina Murray, is a senior at Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Vivian Neal, daughter of Diane and Marcus Neal, is a senior at Harrisonburg High School and a resident of Harrisonburg. Jack Sherman, son of Christine and Andrew Sherman, is a senior at Patrick Henry High School and a resident of Roanoke. Christian Strom, son of Chris and Deborah Strom, is a senior at Cave Spring High School and a resident of Roanoke. William Sweet, son of Jon and Mary-Beth Sweet, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Casey Welch, son of Barry and Allison Welch, is a senior at Roanoke Catholic School and a resident of Roanoke.
02.02.2018	I will continue to work with the White House to advance policy changes to create an America that is safe, strong, and proud. share: f t Optimism is the word that best captures the spirit of the State of the Union address. On Tuesday night, the country came together to hear from President Trump. From wherever you sat in the House chamber or in front of the TV at home, the message he delivered was unequivocally strong, highlighting important boosts in America’s economic confidence in the past year as well as laying out opportunities for Congress and the Administration to work together. Over the past year, we have witnessed a booming economy. Thanks to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, many Americans have already seen an increase in their paychecks, and hundreds of job creators have pledged bonuses or raises for employees as well as new investments in the United States. This includes Lynchburg-based Bank of the James, which will increase its minimum wage to $15 because of the new tax law, as well as companies with a local presence like Walmart, Comcast, and Wells Fargo. These benefits make a big difference for many hardworking families in the Sixth District. We’ve also seen concrete progress in the fight against ISIS, and real policy changes to undo the burdensome regulations of the Obama era. The President also outlined his priorities for the future, including the need to keep our borders secure. I have worked hard with my colleagues in the House to craft the Securing America’s Future Act, which is built on the priorities outlined in the President’s agenda that will increase border security and interior enforcement, crack down on sanctuary cities, curb gang violence, and provide DACA recipients a reasonable, long-term legislative solution. This bill also ends failed programs, like the visa lottery, that have brought dangerous individuals into the United States. I look forward to working with the White House to ensure we have an immigration system that works for America. We heard about the need to reform our prison system, which I remain committed to working on in a bipartisan fashion as part of reforms to our nation’s criminal justice system. Additionally, I am glad President Trump mentioned the importance of providing help to those addicted to opioids. This is an issue that hits close to home for far too many in the Sixth District, and it cannot be swept under the rug. President Trump was also right in saying that America’s infrastructure needs help. Whether it is highways, bridges, or deployment of rural broadband, I will continue to look for ways in the months ahead that I can work with the Administration to provide improvements to these systems and eliminate unnecessary red tape that often stands in the way of projects to strengthen our transportation, telecommunication, and utility systems. There is more work to be done to create greater opportunity for families in Virginia’s Sixth District and across the country. I will continue to work with the White House to advance policy changes to create an America that is safe, strong, and proud. The state of our Union is bright.
02.02.2018	I am pleased that the American people finally have the opportunity to read the information contained in the HPSCI memo. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the declassification and release of the memo from the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence (HPSCI): “I am pleased that the American people finally have the opportunity to read the information contained in the HPSCI memo which details abuses of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). I firmly believe the vast majority of FBI employees are dedicated and professional public servants. However, the contents of the memo continue to raise serious questions about decisions made by Justice Department and FBI leadership during the 2016 presidential election and afterwards, and the role senior FBI officials played in these questionable decisions and irregularities. “This memo confirms the importance of the joint investigation Chairman Gowdy and I launched last fall. We must continue to conduct vigorous Congressional oversight, to root out misconduct, ensure reforms are made, and people are held accountable. This is the only way to rebuild the trust between the American people and our government. “Nothing contained in the Intelligence Committee's memo changes my belief that Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election should proceed.” Background: In October 2017, Chairman Goodlatte and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) announced a joint investigation into decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016.
02.01.2018	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) released a video on the Securing America's Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill closes many gaping loopholes in our existing immigration enforcement laws, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Click here to watch. Below is a transcript of the video. News Clip: Jordan Fabian, The Hill: I want to go back to immigration. There is a group of conservatives in the House who believe they have a bill that fits all the criteria that the President laid out – the Goodlatte proposal –I’m wondering what the President’s thoughts are on that bill and would he support the Congress passing that and would he sign it? Sarah Sanders, White House Press Secretary: I believe that it addresses the principles that we have laid out and would be something we would support. Chairman Goodlatte: Immigration is an important part of America’s past and it will remain an essential piece of our future. With the introduction of the Securing America’s Future Act we have an historic opportunity to fix our broken immigration system. Chairman McCaul: In a time when our enemies are exploiting new ways to attack our homeland, allowing the status quo to continue is simply unacceptable. Fortunately, we are taking decisive action. Representative Labrador: The purpose of our legislation is simple: to help President Trump keep his promise to the American people. Our bill will modernize America’s immigration system for the next generation, enacting conservative reforms that will make our nation strong. Representative McSally: When the American people hear about all the issues and solutions we address in this bill, we are confident that they will be in agreement that these are smart policies to secure our country, secure our communities, and have an immigration system that’s actually working for us. Chairman McCaul: Our bill provides the necessary funds to build a wall, invest in new technology, and improve and modernize points of entry. It also adds more boots on the ground with 5,000 new Border Patrol Agents and 5,000 Customs and Border Protection officers. Chairman Goodlatte: In addition, our bill provides new interior enforcement measures to help remove criminal immigrants and keep gang members out of the country. It cracks down on sanctuary cities, increases criminal penalties for deported criminals who illegally return, and makes the E-verify program mandatory to help ensure that employers hire only legal workers. Representative Labrador: Our bill will also strengthen our economy and create jobs by transitioning to a merit-based LEGAL immigration system that puts the needs of the American people first. Chairman Goodlatte: Our bill ends chain migration and the visa lottery program, reduces overall immigration levels, and creates a workable agricultural guestworker program. Finally, this bill provides DACA recipients a reasonable, long-term legislative solution to include strong anti-fraud measures. Chairman McCaul: The American people are tired of seeing Washington kick the can down the road. They want their elected leaders to get this done and we now have a president in the White House who is putting America first. Chairman Goodlatte: We must work together to ensure we have an immigration system that works for America and respects the rule of law.
01.30.2018	This legislation mandates that amateur athletics governing bodies immediately report allegations of abuse, including sexual abuse, to law enforcement. It also establishes best practices for preventing abuse and provides governing bodies with guidelines about reporting abuse. share: f t Last night, the House of Representatives passed the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse and Safe Sport Authorization Act (S. 534). Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement: “I am pleased that the House has passed bipartisan legislation to prevent abuse in amateur athletics. One of our highest priorities on the House Judiciary Committee has been to protect children from harm, and the recent sentencing of former USA Gymnastics physician Larry Nassar highlights the need for serious reforms to protect young athletes and hold predators accountable. This legislation mandates that amateur athletics governing bodies immediately report allegations of abuse, including sexual abuse, to law enforcement. It also establishes best practices for preventing abuse and provides governing bodies with guidelines about reporting abuse. These changes respond to the needs of victims and will make amateur athletics safer for future Olympians. I am proud to support this bill.” Background: The House Judiciary Committee previously passed companion legislation, the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act (H.R. 1973), which then passed the full House of Representatives. Last year, the House passed a series of bills to protect children from exploitation and abuse.
01.30.2018	I am extremely disappointed that Senate Democrats continue to put politics before human lives. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement in response to the Senate’s failure to pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: “I am extremely disappointed that Senate Democrats continue to put politics before human lives. This bill should not be controversial: scientific evidence supports the conclusion that children are capable of feeling pain at 20 weeks post-fertilization, and a majority of Americans support a limit on abortions after this time. To defeat this legislation is to ignore the cries of the most vulnerable members of our society. Despite this setback, I remain committed to continue to work to protect these innocent lives.” Background: In 2017, the House of Representatives passed the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, also known as Micah’s Law. Additionally, the House passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act earlier this month.
01.30.2018	The State of the Union tonight is bright, full of hope for bipartisan cooperation and policy changes that will uplift all Americans. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following response to President Trump’s State of the Union address: “The word that best captures the spirit of the President’s speech is ‘optimism.’ Over the past year, we have witnessed a booming economy, tax cuts that work for all Americans, concrete progress in the fight against ISIS, and real policy changes to undo the ill-fated regulations of the Obama era. These successes come from a unified Republican government and a commitment to create an America that is safe, strong, and proud. “The President also outlined his priorities for the future. Last year, we passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act to decrease the tax burden on American families. We’re already seeing the benefits in increased wages, bonuses, and new jobs created. But there is more work to be done to create greater opportunity for families in Virginia’s Sixth District and across the country. The President also reiterated his stance on immigration and the need to keep our borders secure. I have worked hard with my colleagues in the House to craft legislation built on the priorities outlined in the President’s agenda that will increase border security and interior enforcement, crack down on sanctuary cities, curb gang activity and violence, end failed programs, like the visa lottery program, that have brought dangerous individuals into the United States, and provide DACA recipients a reasonable, long-term legislative solution. I look forward to working with the White House to ensure we have an immigration system that works for America. Finally, the President mentioned the importance of reforming our prison system. I remain committed to working in a bipartisan fashion to reforming our nation’s criminal justice system. “The State of the Union tonight is bright, full of hope for bipartisan cooperation and policy changes that will uplift all Americans.”
01.29.2018	I continue to be extremely troubled by the decisions made by the FBI during the 2016 presidential election and the role senior FBI officials played in these questionable decisions and irregularities. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the statement below regarding reports indicating that Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Deputy Director Andrew McCabe will step down from his position. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte today sent a letter urging FBI Director Christopher Wray to preserve Mr. McCabe’s emails, and all other communications, before his official departure from the agency. “Today’s news that FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe is stepping down from the Bureau is overdue. Recent revelations call into question Mr. McCabe’s leadership in the top operational post in the FBI. However, Mr. McCabe’s departure certainly does not mean that we are done rooting out the problems at the FBI. I continue to be extremely troubled by the decisions made by the FBI during the 2016 presidential election and the role senior FBI officials played in these questionable decisions and irregularities. “The only way to ensure the FBI remains the premier law enforcement agency in the world is to ensure that the leadership at the Bureau holds the trust of the American people. This change in leadership at the FBI is a good first step in repairing the damage to their reputation.” Background: In October 2017, Chairman Goodlatte and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) announced a joint investigation into decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016. In December 2017, Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy called on the Department of Justice to allow FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, among others, to be interviewed by congressional investigators. That interview took place shortly following the request.
01.24.2018	As I reflect on the March for Life and the support of Americans across the country for the unborn, I feel optimistic that we can achieve great successes with a unified vision of life and liberty. share: f t Today, in the Daily News-Record, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) reflected on last week’s March for Life and highlighted several victories for the pro-life movement in the past year. Daily News-Record: A Year Of Pro-Life Victories By: Bob Goodlatte January 24, 2018 Each January men and women across the country mourn the anniversary of the Supreme Court’s decision in Roe v. Wade. They mourn the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives taken by abortions each year and the indifference of a culture that has turned away from its fundamental values. Many of these brave people demonstrate their opposition to abortion by participating in the March for Life – like thousands of Americans, many from the Shenandoah Valley, did on Friday in Washington. With each step, they solidify their support for the unborn and their commitment to human dignity. This year, however, they also have much to celebrate. In 2017, for the first time in nearly a decade, we witnessed the transition to a new era: a federal government united for the cause of life. During the past 12 months, Congress and the Administration have worked together to protect the most vulnerable among us. What a difference one year can make. Last January, the White House issued an executive order prohibiting foreign aid to organizations that provide or promote abortions outside the United States. The same month, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 7, an important bill that bans the use of taxpayer funds for abortions. Then, the House of Representatives passed the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, or Micah’s Law. This bill is named after Micah Pickering, who was delivered at 22 weeks and has grown to a happy, healthy five-year-old boy. This bill increases restrictions on abortions after 20 weeks post-fertilization, a point at which there is agreement that unborn children can feel pain. The House Judiciary Committee also held a hearing examining a bill that would protect unborn children as soon as a heartbeat is detected. On Friday, the 45th anniversary of the March for Life, the House of Representatives passed the Born Alive Abortion Survivor’s Protection Act. This bill, sponsored by Rep. Marsha Blackburn, R-Tenn., ensures that any child born alive during an abortion procedure receives the same degree of professional care to save the life of the child that any other child born alive at the same gestational age would receive. The Born Alive Abortion Survivor’s Protection Act also establishes criminal penalties for those who kill babies born alive or harm them to attempt to harvest body parts, while protecting women who receive abortions from being prosecuted. These actions from Congress and the White House represent a dramatic shift towards embracing a culture of life. However, there is much work left to be done. Many of these important bills still await action in the Senate before they can be signed into law. As I reflect on the March for Life and the support of Americans across the country for the unborn, I feel optimistic that we can achieve great successes with a unified vision of life and liberty. I pledge my support to continue to fight for life and for the protection of our most vulnerable. Bob Goodlatte represents the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia, which includes Rockingham County and Harrisonburg, in the U.S. House of Representatives.
01.23.2018	The Steering Committee of the Republican Study Committee released the following statement on the Securing America’s Future Act (H.R. 4760): “The Securing America’s Future Act is the framework to strengthen border security, increase interior enforcement and resolve the DACA situation. We believe an eventual stand alone floor vote is essential. We oppose any process for a DACA solution that favors a backroom deal with Democrats over regular order in the House.” ### The Republican Study Committee has served as the conservative caucus of House Republicans and a leading influencer on the Right since its original founding in 1973. It exists to bring like-minded House members together to promote a strong, principled legislative agenda that will limit government, strengthen our national defense, boost America’s economy, preserve traditional values and balance our budget.
01.22.2018	This shutdown never should have happened. share: f t Earlier today, after three days of inaction, Senator Schumer and his colleagues in the United States Senate finally agreed to stop stalling and support legislation to fund the government through February 8. Tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives once again passed legislation to fund the federal government. It also included reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on today’s votes: “This shutdown never should have happened. Senator Schumer and Senate Democrats held funding for our government hostage for three days over a bill they did not even disagree with just because they had not yet gotten a deal on DACA. Negotiations in the House and Senate were already underway on how to address DACA by the March deadline, and the decision to insert this issue into the funding debate and hold our government hostage was completely unnecessary. Tonight, these Senators did what they should have done on Friday – pass a bill to fund the federal government, preserve access to children’s health coverage for thousands of Virginia children, and provide for our troops. “The shutdown may be over, but we still need to continue conversations about long-term spending solutions in Congress. Funding the federal government through short-term deals isn’t the way to govern, and I know many in the Sixth District agree. The House has passed all 12 appropriations bills needed to fund the government for 2018; however, the Senate has yet to take them up. I hope Senate Democrats will allow these bills to come to the floor so that Congress can stop depending on short-term fixes and fund our government with certainty.”
01.22.2018	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) released the following statement concerning the 384 pages of new text messages between top FBI officials: “This weekend we met to discuss the text messages and possible next steps in our oversight of these agencies. The contents of these text messages between top FBI officials are extremely troubling in terms of when certain key decisions were made by the Department of Justice and the FBI, by whom these decisions were made, and the evident bias exhibited by those in charge of the investigation. The omission of text messages between December 2016 and May 2017, a critical gap encompassing the FBI’s Russia investigation, is equally concerning. Rather than clearing up prior FBI and DOJ actions, these recently produced documents cause us to further question the credibility and objectivity of certain officials at the FBI.”
01.20.2018	Senator Schumer, stop the politics and fund our government. share: f t Last night, the United States Senate failed to reach 60 votes to pass legislation to extend funding for the federal government. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the federal government shut down: “Senate Democrats had two choices last night: Vote to keep the government open, allow important discussions to continue, ensure our troops are paid, and accept another opportunity to fund the Children’s Health Insurance Program for 66,000 Virginia children, or vote to shut down the government. It’s disappointing that they chose to stand in the way of military readiness and children’s health coverage all because they have not yet gotten a deal on DACA. It defies logic. “By forcing this government shutdown, Senator Schumer and his colleagues are putting unlawful immigrants before America’s lawful citizens, children, and our troops. No discussions on including DACA in this funding bill should be on the table while Senator Schumer and his allies hold the American people and our government hostage. Reopen the government so that these important conversations can continue. “Meanwhile, the House passed a long-term funding package and reauthorized CHIP months ago. And again this week the House passed a bill to fund the government and ensure CHIP continues. The Senate needs to act. Senator Schumer, stop the politics and fund our government.”
01.19.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, delivered the following remarks on the House floor in favor of the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 4712): Today, thousands of people are rallying in the nation’s capital to be part of the March for Life and to join a celebration of hope and compassion for those who do not yet have a voice. And many millions more have viewed videos of representatives of Planned Parenthood, which performs some forty percent of all abortions each year. Those videos, recorded undercover, sadly portray a much darker side of our society. They show discussions of the exchange of money for the body parts of aborted babies. They also include discussions of instances in which, during the course of an attempted abortion, a baby is born “intact,” and then shipped to a lab for the use of its body parts. Congress must move immediately to protect any children born alive during the course of a failed abortion. The bill before us today provides that in the case of an abortion or attempted abortion that results in a child born alive, any health care practitioner present must exercise the same degree of professional care to preserve the life of the child as he or she would render to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. The bill also provides that the child must be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. If a baby born alive is left to die, the penalty can be up to five years in jail. If the child is cut open for its body parts, or some other overt act is taken, the punishment is that for first degree murder, which can include life in prison or the death penalty. Babies are born alive during failed abortions. The House Judiciary Committee heard direct testimony by two grown women who, as babies, survived attempted abortions. The mother of one of them, Gianna Jessen, was advised by Planned Parenthood to have an abortion. But as Ms. Jessen testified: “Instead of dying … I was delivered alive in an abortion clinic in Los Angeles.” Her medical records state clearly that she was “born alive” during an abortion. She continued, “Thankfully, the abortionist was not at work yet. Had he been there, he would have ended my life with strangulation, suffocation, or leaving me there to die … I was later diagnosed with Cerebral Palsy, which was caused by a lack of oxygen to my brain while surviving the abortion. I was never supposed to hold my head up or walk. I do. And Cerebral Palsy is a great gift to me.” Just think of that for a moment. Ms. Jessen says cerebral palsy is a gift to her because it came with the gift of life. She forgave her mother long ago, and gives praise each day for that gift of life, which she enjoys to its fullest to this day. Ms. Jessen presented a picture at the hearing showing the results of the sort of abortion she survived. I urge all my colleagues to support the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, so others who survive failed abortions can have the same chance to be as thankful as Ms. Jessen. Click here to watch this floor statement.
01.19.2018	The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act requires that babies born alive during an abortion procedure receive medical attention, which would save the lives of vulnerable infants who cannot defend themselves. share: f t The House of Representatives today passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 4712), which ensures that babies who survive an abortion procedure receive immediate medical care and are admitted to a hospital. This bill also establishes criminal penalties for physicians who fail to provide care to abortion survivors, and protects mothers from prosecution. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement in support of this legislation: “Today, as thousands of men and women participate in the March for Life, I am pleased that the House of Representatives has voted to protect the sanctity of human life. In the House Judiciary Committee, we have heard testimony from abortion survivors who, despite the traumatic circumstances surrounding their birth, have gone on to live fulfilling, meaningful lives. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act requires that babies born alive during an abortion procedure receive medical attention, which would save the lives of vulnerable infants who cannot defend themselves. As a husband, father, and grandfather, I was honored to usher this important legislation to the House floor. I call on the Senate to take this bill up immediately.” Background: Goodlatte spoke on the House floor in favor of H.R. 4712. You can watch his full remarks HERE.
01.19.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued this statement following the President signing into law a reauthorization of Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), a critical national security tool: “I am pleased the President has signed into law the FISA Amendments Reauthorization Act, which represents a good step at reforming one our nation’s most indispensable national security tools. While this legislation is not perfect, the bill requires, for the first time, a warrant to access 702-collected communications of U.S. persons in criminal investigations. The bill also prohibits the government from using 702-acquired communications against a U.S. citizen in court regarding routine crimes unless the government gets a warrant before accessing the contents of the communications. I am pleased that the House Judiciary Committee, with primary oversight of FISA, was able to successfully push to ensure reauthorization of this critical program which keeps our nation safe while also securing basic civil liberties we hold as Americans.”
01.18.2018	On behalf of the Virginia families we represent in Congress, we ask that the Senate act now to reauthorize CHIP. share: f t Tonight, the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation to extend funding for the federal government and reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years. Reps. Scott Taylor (Va.-02), Thomas A. Garrett, Jr. (Va.-5), Bob Goodlatte (Va.-06), Dave Brat (Va.-07), H. Morgan Griffith (Va.-09), and Barbara Comstock (Va.-10) issued the following statement after voting in support of this legislation to keep the federal government open and provide health coverage for Virginia children: “Senate Democrats have a decision to make. Hold funding for the government hostage or take a vote to reauthorize CHIP and provide health coverage to nearly 9 million low-income children in the United States. We supported this legislation because we need to keep the government open and keep working on the American people’s priorities. Funding for Virginia’s CHIP program, known as FAMIS, is nearly exhausted and roughly 66,000 children and 1,100 pregnant women in the Commonwealth rely on this program to keep them healthy. Now isn’t the time for games of political brinksmanship. Shutting down the government does not accomplish the goal of funding CHIP or continuing important discussions in Washington. On behalf of the Virginia families we represent in Congress, we ask that the Senate act now to reauthorize CHIP. We hope Senator Schumer and his colleagues will join us in supporting the bill passed by the House tonight.”
01.17.2018	The House Judiciary Committee today approved the Disclosing Foreign Influence Act (H.R. 4170) by a vote of 15-6. This bipartisan piece of legislation updates the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) to improve the transparency and give enforcement authority to the Department of Justice. Representative Mike Johnson (R-La.) is the chief sponsor of H.R. 4170. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement: “The House Judiciary Committee voted today in favor of transparency and accountability. By closing the dangerous loopholes in the Foreign Agents Registration Act, this legislation gives the Department of Justice the crucial enforcement tools it needs to investigate foreign agents, identify fraud, and hold violators accountable. I appreciate all of the hard work that Representative Johnson has put into this bipartisan bill, and I urge my colleagues to support it.” Background: A 2016 OIG report regarding the Department of Justice (DOJ) National Security Division found that DOJ lacked a comprehensive enforcement strategy and the tools necessary to address abuse of foreign lobbying efforts. H.R. 4170 addresses the ambiguity in the existing law and increases transparency and oversight in DOJ enforcement efforts.
01.16.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on the report issued by the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security entitled “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States”: “The startling information in this report confirms what we already know: our current immigration system is broken, and it fails to protect the American people. America is a nation of immigrants, most of whom came to this country seeking a better life. However, the years of lax enforcement, weak border security, and chain migration have brought in dangerous foreign nationals who have conspired against and in some cases harmed Americans. Of the 549 terror-related convictions since the attacks on September 11, 2001, 73% of those convicted were foreign born. “I appreciate the Administration’s efforts to reform our immigration laws and improve our national security. To that end, I have worked with my colleagues on the Homeland Security Committee to draft the Securing America’s Future Act. This legislation addresses many of the immigration problems identified by the Administration in October 2017, and it fixes the loopholes that allowed dangerous individuals to enter and remain in the United States as they planned to harm U.S. citizens. This bill is a necessary first step to fix our broken immigration system and protect the American people.” Background: The Securing America’s Future Act bolsters enforcement of U.S. immigration laws, secures the border, and provides a long-term legislative solution for recipients of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The DOJ/DHS report was compiled in response to the President’s Executive Order 13780, and the full report is available here.
01.11.2018	THE WHITE HOUSE Office of the Press Secretary January 10, 2018 Statement from the Press Secretary on Immigration Legislation President Donald J. Trump is grateful to Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman McCaul, Congressman Labrador, and Congresswoman McSally for introducing immigration legislation that would accomplish the President’s core priorities for the American people. The President looks forward to advancing legislation that secures the border, ends chain migration, cancels the visa lottery, and addresses the status of the DACA population in a responsible fashion. ### Homeland Security Secretary Nielsen Statement on Introduction of Goodlatte-McCaul Bill January 10, 2018 WASHINGTON – Today, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Kirstjen M. Nielsen released the following statement on the introduction of the Goodlatte-McCaul legislation: “I appreciate the leadership of Chairmen Goodlatte and McCaul, Representatives Labrador and McSally and key staff in crafting this bill. The legislation introduced today reflects many of the policy principles and priorities identified by DHS’s frontline personnel which the Administration has advocated for this past year. I look forward to working with Members as they consider this and other legislation that will help us secure our borders, provide necessary enforcement authorities, and end diversity visas and extended family chain migration. Collectively, these elements are significant factors when it comes to protecting Americans and the Homeland.” ###
01.11.2018	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today delivered the following remarks on the reauthorization of Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), a critical national security tool. The legislation, which passed the House by a vote of 256-164, represents a good first step at reforming Section 702. Chairman Goodlatte: As you all know, the Judiciary Committee worked diligently, for a year, on legislation that does two things: (1) protect Americans’ civil liberties by requiring a court order to access Section 702 data during domestic criminal investigations; and (2) reauthorize the 702 program, which is our nation’s most indispensable national security tool. We achieved that, by passing the USA Liberty Act in the House Judiciary Committee last year by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote, which is no easy task. However, we were able to responsibly balance civil liberties with national security. The bill we will vote on today was drafted in the spirit of the USA Liberty Act. It is not perfect, and the process getting here was not ideal, but the bill requires, for the first time, a warrant to access 702-collected communications of U.S. persons in criminal investigations. Moreover, in routine criminal cases, when the FBI accesses U.S. person communications that were incidentally collected, without first obtaining a warrant, the FBI will not be permitted to use those communications in a criminal prosecution. This will prevent a national security tool from advancing run-of-the-mill criminal prosecutions. These are meaningful reforms. The bill that was presented to us before Christmas, with its “optional warrant” construct, was not real reform. The bill we are debating today, however, contains meaningful reforms. I would have preferred to include additional reforms, but I cannot stress to my colleagues enough that our choice cannot be between a perfect reform bill and expiration of this program. The 702 program is far too important for that. With this bill, we can have meaningful reform and reauthorization. In its current form, this bill will pass the Senate. I also want to caution everyone that we cannot go too far in seeking to alter this program. There is an amendment that will be offered, sponsored by Mr. Amash and Ms. Lofgren, which would prevent the FBI from ever querying its 702 database using a US person term. Imagine the FBI getting a tip from a flight instructor whose student acts suspiciously by expressing great interest in learning how to take off and fly a plane but has no interest in learning how to land the plane. This could be innocent behavior, but don’t we want law enforcement to at least be able to perform a search to see if they already have in their possession any communications between the student and a foreign actor involved in organizing terrorist plots? The Judiciary Committee-passed bill would have allowed the search, and allowed law enforcement to view the metadata without a warrant, while requiring a warrant to view the content of the communications. The Amash/Lofgren amendment, which was rejected in the Judiciary Committee, goes too far and would prevent such a search from even being done. It would thus kill this critical program by preventing the FBI from even looking at its own databases without a warrant, rendering it ineffective in preventing terrorist attacks and stifling its ability to gather necessary intelligence. It must not be adopted. I will vote to support this bill. I will oppose the Amash/Lofgren amendment. I urge my colleagues to join me. Vote for reform and reauthorization. I reserve the balance of my time.
01.10.2018	Those who target veterans—particularly elderly or otherwise vulnerable veterans—deserve to be punished to the full extent of the law. share: f t Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved by voice vote the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2017 (H.R. 506). This bipartisan legislation punishes those who knowingly scheme to defraud veterans of their federal benefits. Specifically, this bill closes a loophole that allows bad actors to escape punishment by committing the fraud in person. Currently, a violator would be punishable if they use the mail or telephone to engage in this fraud. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement: “Those who target veterans—particularly elderly or otherwise vulnerable veterans—deserve to be punished to the full extent of the law. I am pleased that this legislation, the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act, eliminates loopholes in our current law that will ultimately hold wrongdoers accountable for their reprehensible actions. I commend my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their strong work on behalf of veterans, and I urge the Senate to pass this bill without delay.” Background: H.R. 506, the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act, amends title 18, U.S. Code, to penalize those who execute a scheme to defraud a veteran of his or her benefits. Penalties include a fine, imprisonment of up to five years, or both. This bill is similar to legislation that was approved by the House Judiciary Committee and subsequently passed the full House of Representatives in 2016.
01.10.2018	This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Homeland Security Committee Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) today introduced the Securing America's Future Act (H.R. 4760). This bill bolsters enforcement of existing immigration law, makes important reforms to our legal immigration programs, secures the border, and provides a legislative solution for the current beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. The Securing America's Future Act includes numerous reforms to ensure the enforcement of our immigration laws in the interior of our country. The legislation aims to reduce the number of individuals who overstay their visas, requires employers to use the E-Verify system to ensure that they hire legal workers, and makes it easier to remove individuals who are gang members and other criminals. Additionally, the legislation cracks down on dangerous sanctuary cities by withholding federal grants and prevents fraud and abuse in the asylum system. The Securing America's Future Act reforms our legal immigration programs by ending chain migration, ending the Diversity Visa program, increasing the number of green cards available for skilled workers, and creating a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. The bill strengthens the security of our southern border by authorizing the construction of a border wall, investing in new technology, and improving, modernizing, and expanding ports of entry. The bill also calls for an additional 5,000 Border Patrol Agents and 5,000 Customs and Border Protection Officers and requires the use of a biometric Entry-Exit system at all ports of entry. Finally, the Securing America’s Future Act allows DACA beneficiaries to receive a 3-year renewable legal status, while ensuring that gang members, individuals who have criminal convictions, or convictions in juvenile court for serious crimes are not eligible for legal status. Below are statements from House Judiciary and Homeland Security Committee leaders on the introduction of the Securing America's Future Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “Years of lax enforcement policies have wreaked havoc on our borders. Millions of people have been allowed to flout our immigration laws. We can’t let these dangerous and foolish policies continue. “With the introduction of the Securing America’s Future Act we have an historic opportunity to fix our broken immigration system. The only way to reduce illegal immigration is to address both enforcement of our immigration laws in the interior of our country and to secure our borders. This carefully crafted legislation, which is aligned with the White House's immigration priorities, combines enforcement measures and increased border security to enhance public safety, ensure the door remains open to law-abiding immigrants, and restore the rule of law. “I thank Chairman McCaul and Representatives Labrador and McSally for working with me on the Securing America’s Future Act and we look forward to working with the Administration and Members of the House and Senate to see these important reforms implemented." Chairman McCaul: “Our current border security and immigration system is failing the American people. For too long drug smugglers, human traffickers, and transnational gang members like MS-13 have exploited our vulnerabilities at our borders. It’s time to end this crisis once and for all. This bill offers common-sense solutions that will finally secure our borders, better support our frontline defenders, strengthen interior enforcement, and get tough on those who break our immigration laws. With this President at the helm, we have the opportunity to provide the security and rule of law our founding fathers intended. I am proud to offer these reasonable solutions with my colleagues and look forward to finally solving these challenges in the near future.” Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Labrador: “The purpose of our legislation is simple: to help President Trump keep his promise to the American people to fix our broken immigration system. Our bill will modernize America’s immigration system for the next generation, enacting conservative reforms that will make our nation strong. These reforms include authorizing funding for the border wall, stronger interior enforcement, mandatory E-Verify, and ending chain migration and the diversity visa lottery. Our bill will also strengthen our economy and create jobs by transitioning to a merit-based legal immigration system that puts the needs of the American people first. “I want to thank my colleagues – Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman McCaul, and Representative McSally – for joining me in introducing this bill. Should it become law, it will be one of the most consequential conservative bills of our lifetime.” Border and Maritime Security Subcommittee Chairwoman McSally: “Our unsecure border and broken immigration system threaten our country’s safety and prosperity; no one knows this better than Arizona. As if the most recent terrorist attacks don’t stand as reason enough, sophisticated drug cartels, human traffickers, and an opioid crisis all point to the need for action. Now is the time. “Our legislation finally strengthens America’s borders. It moves us towards a merit-based immigration system. It includes funds for necessary infrastructure, interior law enforcement, a biometric exit-entry system, and an e-verify system for employers so that our immigration laws are enforced. It cracks down on sanctuary cities and focuses on public safety of our citizens like Kate Steinle who was killed by a man deported 5 times. And it also puts more boots on the border and supports our Border Patrol Agents and CBP officers on the frontlines. America is the most generous and welcoming nation in the world, and that will continue. But we won’t be taken advantage of any longer. This bill delivers on what the American people want and what our President has requested, and I urge my colleagues to join us and support it.” Original cosponsors of the Securing America’s Future Act also include Judiciary Committee Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and House Appropriations Committee Homeland Security Subcommittee Chairman John Carter (R-Texas). Additional Resources: Bill Text Bill Summary Press Conference Op-ed from Chairmen Goodlatte and McCaul and Representatives Labrador and McSally
01.09.2018	In a time when America’s enemies are seeking new ways to strike the homeland, a failed immigration system is unacceptable. share: f t Today in the Wall Street Journal, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas), and Representatives Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) and Martha McSally (R-Ariz.) announced they will introduce legislation in the House to strengthen the border and enhance interior enforcement, making America more secure. Wall Street Journal: The House Chairmen's Plan for Immigration Reform By: Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Chairman Michael McCaul, Representative Raúl Labrador, and Representative Martha McSally January 9, 2018 - Click here For far too long, America’s immigration system has been in shambles. The borders are not secure and laws are seldom enforced. This dysfunction allows drug smugglers to creep into the U.S. and exacerbate the opioid epidemic. It provides human traffickers the opportunity to exploit forced labor for profit, invites transnational gangs like MS-13 to inflict violence on American neighborhoods, and offers terrorists a way into the country. In a time when America’s enemies are seeking new ways to strike the homeland, a failed immigration system is unacceptable. On Wednesday we will introduce legislation in the House to strengthen the border and enhance interior enforcements, making America more secure. A priority of our legislation is to increase the security of the southern border. Our bill would provide $30 billion to build a wall, to invest in new technology, and to improve, modernize and expand ports of entry. It would add boots on the ground: an additional 5,000 Border Patrol agents and 5,000 Customs and Border Protection officers. It would provide for the construction of additional ports of entry and a full implementation of the biometric entry-exit system, while authorizing the National Guard to provide aviation and intelligence support. Even once the border is secure, immigration law requires significant changes to bring illegal immigration fully under control. Almost half of illegal aliens entered the U.S. legally on tourist and other short-term visas and simply never left. We must turn off the irresistible “jobs magnet” and ensure that immigration laws are effectively enforced within the U.S. Our bill would achieve these goals by cracking down on people who overstay their visas, by requiring employers to use the accurate and hugely successful E-Verify system to ensure that they hire only legal workers, and by making it easier to deport aliens who are gang members, who are aggravated felons, who fail to register as sex offenders, or who have multiple DUIs. Our bill would put an end to chain migration, the process by which citizens and green-card holders can sponsor extended family members for their own green cards (who in turn can eventually sponsor their own extended family members, ad infinitum). It also would stop the Diversity Visa program, which awards green cards by random lottery to people with no ties to the U.S. Neither of these programs prioritizes the skills of people entering the country. The U.S. is the most generous and welcoming nation in the world, accepting on average more than a million new immigrants every year. But a steady influx of low-skilled labor has depressed wages for workers here at home. That is not putting America first. These programs have opened our doors to terrorists. The attack in New York City last Halloween that left eight dead and 11 injured was carried out by Sayfullo Saipov, a man from Uzbekistan who entered the U.S. through the Diversity Visa program. One month later, Akayed Ullah, a man from Bangladesh who arrived through chain migration, carried out another attack in New York. These attacks prove that the current system is failing. Our proposal allows the Justice Department to withhold grants from “sanctuary cities”—jurisdictions that refuse to allow their law-enforcement officers to cooperate with federal immigration authorities, even to the point of preventing Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers from entering local jails to take custody of criminal aliens. Sanctuary cities put innocent lives at risk. In 2015, many people learned the story of Jose Ines Garcia Zarate, who had been deported on five previous occasions before he was released by San Francisco authorities. He went on to shoot and kill an innocent young woman. Any immigration system that fails to protect the American people has to change. Finally, as requested by President Trump, our bill provides a legislative solution for the beneficiaries of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, who were brought to the U.S. illegally as minors. DACA was first imposed through an unconstitutional abuse of executive power by President Obama in 2012. The Constitution specifically delegates the power to make immigration law to Congress. Our bill would allow DACA beneficiaries to receive a three-year renewable legal status, codifying the program the right way—by a duly enacted statute. But to be clear, there is no new or special path to citizenship for these individuals in our bill. Importantly, our bill will help ensure that the distressing DACA dilemma does not recur after a few short years. The legislation would end “catch and release,” battle asylum fraud and require that unaccompanied minors caught at the border be treated equally regardless of their home country. Together this will ensure that the law no longer tempts minors and their parents to make the dangerous illegal journey to the U.S.—or to line the pockets of cartels that make a business of supporting these journeys. Americans have been debating how to best fix the country’s immigration system for decades. Congress has a unique opportunity to act now, before the country ends up with another large population who crossed the border illegally as children. Let’s take this historic moment to come together and support vital legislation that provides common-sense, reasonable solutions. The American people have been waiting a long time for their leaders to step up, get the job done, and better protect America. It’s time to deliver. Mr. Goodlatte represents Virginia’s Sixth Congressional District and is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Mr. McCaul represents Texas’ 10th District and is chairman of the Homeland Security Committee. Mr. Labrador represents Idaho’s First District and is chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security. Ms. McSally represents Arizona’s Second District and is chairwoman of the Homeland Security Subcommittee on Border and Maritime Security.
12.22.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and U.S. Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA) applauded final Senate passage of their legislation today to lift deed restrictions on property used for the Plains Area Daycare Center in Rockingham County. The bill passed the House of Representatives in July and now heads to the President’s desk for signature. “Lifting the federal restrictions on this land in Rockingham County will allow the Plains Area Daycare Center to reach its full potential and help ensure that more children and more of the community will be served. Passage of this bill is a long time coming, and I am pleased to see it become a reality,” Goodlatte said. “The Plains Area Daycare Center has served families in Rockingham County for more than two decades, and passage of this bill will ensure the day care center can continue to offer affordable, high-quality services to families in the community,” Kaine said. The Plains Area Daycare Center in Broadway, VA, has provided affordable childcare for 25 years and currently provides care for 94 children, many of whom are from low-income families. The Center’s building is in need of repair and maintenance but has encountered hurdles in securing financing due to the property’s complex legal status as former federal land conveyed to Rockingham County and leased to the Center. This legislation will remove the federal land use restrictions for the building site, ensuring that routine repairs can take place without further delay in the future.
12.20.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today sent a letter to the President regarding the impact of foreign antitrust enforcement on American citizens and businesses abroad. The letter recommends, among other items, that the President establish a “White House Working Group on International Competition” to coordinate international competition and trade policy within the U.S. and also to develop a comprehensive and consistent strategy to address misuse of foreign competition law by foreign governments. Chairman Goodlatte and Chairman Grassley have issued the following statements. Chairman Goodlatte: “I thank my colleague Chairman Grassley for his hard work on this issue. The House Judiciary Committee’s antitrust hearings have highlighted concerns about abuses of international antitrust laws by foreign governments, including lack of due process, disregard for intellectual property rights, and refusal to take action against state-owned and state-sponsored entities in other countries. “I urge the President to form a working group to coordinate a consistent response to trade and antitrust policy across the Administration.” Chairman Grassley: “American companies doing business abroad should be treated fairly. Unfortunately, in some places antitrust laws are abused to create an uneven playing field that harms American businesses. President Trump has made it a priority to get better deals for American businesses in the global marketplace. Chairman Goodlatte and I are calling on the President to examine how best to address misuse of foreign competition law and ensure Americans receive fair treatment from foreign governments and are able to compete on a level playing field.” Background: In March 2017, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce released the “Report and Recommendations” of its bipartisan independent investigation into international trade and competition law, including 12 recommendations for more effective and integrated international trade and antitrust law. One of the first recommendations included the establishment of a White House working group to prioritize these issues. In May 2017, the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law held an oversight hearing on recent trends in international antitrust enforcement, including a review of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce ICPEG’s report. Read the full text of Chairman Goodlatte and Chairman Grassley’s letter to the White House here.
12.19.2017	By creating a simpler, fairer tax system, the reforms in this bill will help put more money in the pockets of families and encourage job creators of all sizes to invest in the United States. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released a statement today after voting in support of the bicameral conference report to H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives: “Tax relief is one step closer for Virginia families. At its very core, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is about creating greater opportunity for men and women across the United States. It means more jobs, lower and fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks. “The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act lowers individual tax rates so families can keep more of their hard-earned money. Under this plan, a family of four earning an income of $73,000 will receive a tax cut of more than $2,000. This bill expands the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $2,000, preserves the mortgage interest deduction for current and future homeowners, expands the medical expense deduction, and maintains popular options used to save for retirement, like 401ks and IRAs. It also provides families with the flexibility to purchase the health coverage they want and need by eliminating the tax penalty created by Obamacare’s individual mandate. “By creating a simpler, fairer tax system, the reforms in this bill will help put more money in the pockets of families and encourage job creators of all sizes to invest in the United States. Following expected action in the Senate later today, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will head to the President’s desk. I look forward to seeing this historic tax reform cross the finish line and deliver much-needed tax relief to families across the country.” For more information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit fairandsimple.gop.
12.19.2017	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) called on the Department of Justice to allow FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, FBI Chief of Staff Jim Rybicki, and FBI counsel Lisa Page to be interviewed by Congressional investigators. Nearly two months ago the House Committee on the Judiciary and the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform launched a joint investigation into decisions made by the Department of Justice, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation, during the 2016 presidential election. Recent information indicates DOJ and FBI officials played a significant role in these questionable decisions. In their letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy called on them to allow Congressional investigators to interview McCabe, Rybicki, and Page starting Thursday, December 21, 2017. The full letter can be found here.
12.14.2017	The Restoring Internet Freedom Order will encourage investment in internet infrastructure, promote competition, and ultimately benefit consumers. share: f t Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) vote in favor of FCC Chairman Ajit Pai’s Restoring Internet Freedom Order: “I want to thank FCC Chairman Pai for liberating internet service providers and small businesses from the stranglehold of overly burdensome regulations. The Restoring Internet Freedom Order will encourage investment in internet infrastructure, promote competition, and ultimately benefit consumers. Having said that, we must continue to make sure that anti-competitive and discriminatory conduct on the internet is deterred and punished, and I look forward to continuing to work to make sure our laws, including our antitrust laws, protect against this conduct.” Background: In August, Congressman Goodlatte wrote an op-ed for The Hill voicing his concerns about over-regulating the internet and explaining why the Federal Trade Commission is better equipped than the FCC to protect privacy and remedy antitrust issues. Goodlatte also praised FCC Chairman Pai’s Restoring Internet Freedom Order when it was first released in November.
12.13.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following remarks during the House Judiciary Committee's oversight hearing with Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein. Chairman Goodlatte: Good morning. Thank you, Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein, for appearing for the first time in front of this Committee. There is much to discuss today, and we look forward to your testimony and answers to our questions. As Chairman of the Committee with primary oversight of DOJ and the FBI, I have always supported DOJ and FBI in performing their valuable missions to keep our nation safe and to hold individuals accountable for criminal conduct. Yet I and many on this Committee now find ourselves in the very difficult position of questioning the actions of both prior and current Department and FBI leadership. You have a unique role at DOJ, in that you appointed Special Counsel Mueller and have a supervisory role over his investigation. It is therefore very appropriate for you to appear before this Committee to answer questions related to the scope of the Special Counsel’s investigation, as well as its current efficacy in light of various events calling into question its impartiality. Reports on the political predisposition, and potential bias, of certain career agents and Department lawyers on Special Counsel Mueller’s team are deeply troubling to all citizens who expect a system of blind and equal justice. DOJ investigations must not be tainted by individuals imposing their own political prejudices. We are now beginning to better understand the magnitude of this insider bias on Mr. Mueller’s team. First, we have FBI agent Peter Strzok and FBI lawyer Lisa Page exchanging communications showing extreme bias against President Trump, a fact that would be bad enough if it weren’t for the fact that these two individuals were employed as part of the Mueller “dream team” investigating the very person for whom they were showing disdain. And calling it mere “disdain” is generous. According to the documents produced last night to this Committee, Mr. Strzok and Ms. Page referred to the President as “an utter idiot,” “a loathsome human,” and “awful,” while continually praising Hillary Clinton and the Obamas. These text messages prove what we all suspected: high-ranking FBI officials involved in the Clinton investigation were personally invested in the outcome of the election, and clearly let their strong political opinions cloud their professional judgment. And this was only an “initial disclosure,” containing heavy redactions. Second, former embattled FBI General Counsel and current Mueller prosecutor, Andrew Weissmann, expressed his “awe” of a former DOJ official for shunning the President and failing to faithfully execute the law. However, we are the ones now in “awe” that someone like Mr. Weissmann remains on an investigative team that looks more and more partisan. Third, we have learned that a top Mueller prosecutor, Jeannie Rhee, in addition to other actions that would normally justify recusal, served as an attorney for the Clinton Foundation. Aren’t DOJ attorneys advised to avoid even the “appearance of impropriety?” A former Clinton employee is now investigating President Trump. This seems to be the very definition of “appearance of impropriety.” Fourth, we just recently learned that another top DOJ official, Bruce Ohr, has been reassigned because of his and his wife’s connections with the infamous “dossier” and the company from whom the opposition research document originated. We hope to hear your assessment of the foregoing conflicts, whether individuals are being held accountable, and whether you still have confidence in the judgement of the Special Counsel you named and supervise. Regarding the Clinton email scandal, you, along with Attorney General Sessions, have to date declined to appoint a second special counsel to investigate the improprieties that continue to surface related to the handling of the Clinton email investigation and other events surrounding the 2016 election. These are some of the important issues on which we will focus our energy and questions today. We want to understand your participation and the Department’s involvement in addressing both investigations. Mr. Deputy Attorney General, DOJ’s reputation as an impartial arbiter of justice has been called into question. This taint of politicization should concern all Americans who have pride in the fairness of our nation’s justice system. While we continue to call on you to appoint a second special counsel, as you are aware, we have also opened our own joint investigation with the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee to review FBI and DOJ’s handling of the Clinton email investigation. I want to thank you and Attorney General Sessions for recently committing to provide us relevant documents to enable robust Congressional oversight of this matter. I implore you to continue to work with us on these and other important matters facing our nation. One of those matters involves a critical program for our national security – FISA Section 702. This Committee passed, on an overwhelming, bipartisan basis, the USA Liberty Act, which maintains the integrity of the program while protecting cherished civil liberties. This overwhelming vote occurred despite the Department’s lobbying efforts against our bill. The USA Liberty Act was characterized as “bad for the program,” “highly problematic,” “unworkable,” and a proposal that would “effectively dismantle the Section 702 program.” However, the reality is that this Committee’s legislation struck a balance that promotes national security and civil liberties. I hope to hear from you why DOJ felt it necessary to oppose a bill that would reauthorize 702 and instill confidence in the American people that their privacy and civil liberties are respected by a Government whose duty it is to protect them. The Department of Justice must reacquire the trust of the American people, and I hope to hear from you today that you have an action plan to do so. Thank you again, Mr. Deputy Attorney General, for appearing today. I now yield to Mr. Nadler for his comments. VIDEO: Click here for video of Chairman Goodlatte’s opening statement.
12.12.2017	FOSTA creates a new federal statute with increased penalties for promoting sex trafficking online and amends section 230 of the Communications Decency Act to permit local and state criminal prosecutions of bad-actor websites. share: f t Today, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 1865, the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 (FOSTA) by voice vote. This bill creates a new federal statute with increased penalties for promoting sex trafficking online and amends section 230 of the Communications Decency Act to permit local and state criminal prosecutions of bad-actor websites. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Representative Ann Wagner (R-Mo.) have issued the following statements. Chairman Goodlatte: “I applaud my colleagues on the House Judiciary Committee for acting quickly to combat the scourge of online sex trafficking. I’ve worked closely with Representative Wagner, law enforcement, and other stakeholders on this new legislation, and I am pleased that the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act of 2017 empowers prosecutors with new tools to hold violators accountable, and adds mandatory restitution and civil recovery provisions to aid victims. I believe H.R. 1865 provides the best available legislative solution to this growing problem, and I hope the House takes up this legislation without delay.” Representative Wagner: “I would like to thank Chairman Goodlatte and the House Judiciary Committee for passing meaningful legislation that will help end online sex trafficking. FOSTA is a victims first bill that will shut down the websites that profit from modern day sex slavery, send the people who operate them to jail, and ensure that vulnerable people are never sold online. Importantly, this brings Congress one step closer to passing a bill that will finally provide justice for sex trafficking victims. This legislation is about more than just Backpage.com; by amending Section 230 to give federal, state, and local prosecutors practical tools to hold websites accountable, we will wreak havoc on the hundreds of websites profiting from the sale of sex trafficking victims across my district and our country.” For a full list of advocates, law enforcement, and industry groups that support this legislation, click here.
12.07.2017	These young men and women are the next generation of American innovators. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today during Computer Science Education Week that a team from Hidden Valley High School in Roanoke is the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge. Yesterday, Congressman Goodlatte notified the students by Skype (photo attached) of their achievement. A group photo of the team in front of their “brainstorming board” is also attached. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement congratulating the team: “These students from Hidden Valley High School took a real world problem – one they have personally experienced – and created a solution. They saw their idea transform from a ‘brainstorming board’ in the classroom to a tool that can be used to help quickly and accurately tally Quizbowl results. “I am extremely impressed by the ingenuity and skill of these students and students throughout the Sixth Congressional District who submitted entries. Each of these participants is to be commended for their hard work. I encourage them to take what they have learned from this process and continue to grow their knowledge of computer coding. I thank all of the students who participated as well as the educators who helped them along the way. These young men and women are the next generation of American innovators.” Quizbowl Scores: Hidden Valley High School – Roanoke, Va. 1. David Arnold 2. Shreyas Gullapalli 3. Mengyun (Mavis) Lee 4. Yifei Zhao Teacher/Advisor: Mrs. Phifer Herrala Link to app demonstration: https://youtu.be/c8ZFjElPiD8 Description: “Less than a month ago we assisted our Quizbowl team in hosting a Quizbowl tournament. During it, we noticed that oftentimes certain scorekeepers couldn't do math quickly as others, or kept messing up the calculations, which led to their rooms being behind. This app aims to solve that by simplifying the scorekeeping process.” Additional Information: In 2014, Congressman Goodlatte co-chaired the first Congressional App Challenge along with Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.). Through the Congressional App Challenge, students from across the country are tasked with creating and exhibiting an original app. The winning apps are eligible to be featured in the U.S. Capitol Building and on House.gov. Each winner will also receive $250 in Amazon Web Services Credits and will be invited to the #HouseOfCode Reception in April 2018. More information about the Congressional App Challenge can be found at www.congressionalappchallenge.us.
12.07.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) called on the Justice Department and Federal Bureau of Investigation to provide the House Judiciary Committee with all information presented to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) to allegedly obtain a warrant based on politically-motivated opposition research. Earlier this year, media reports indicated that in 2016, the FBI used information contained in a controversial dossier to justify a FISA warrant against Carter Page, a onetime advisor to President Trump’s presidential campaign. Former FBI Director James Comey also apparently cited the dossier “as one of the sources of information the bureau has used to bolster its investigation.” It is now known that the dossier was opposition research funded by the Democratic National Committee and the Clinton campaign. In a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein, and FBI Director Christopher Wray, Chairman Goodlatte called on them to provide the House Judiciary Committee with all relevant information reportedly presented to the FISC used to justify that FISA warrant by next week. The letter can be found here.
12.07.2017	Unlike the court system, Congress is much better equipped to adopt a nuanced solution that will protect all parties’ legitimate interests without burdening small business owners unfairly. share: f t Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, filed an amicus brief asking the Supreme Court to deny review of the case of South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. Proponents of review seek a Court-imposed solution to challenges in the collection of taxes on sales by out-of-state vendors, a matter that the Court itself has previously said is within Congress’s constitutional jurisdiction. Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Rep. Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.), and Sen. Mike Lee (R-Utah) also joined Goodlatte in submitting this bipartisan, bicameral brief. Goodlatte issued the following statement: “During my tenure as House Judiciary Committee Chairman, my colleagues and I have worked long and hard, seeking ideas from state representatives, brick-and-mortar shop owners, and online retailers and negotiating a compromise for the collection of already-owed taxes that works for all parties. As a result of these efforts, the House Judiciary Committee has authored draft legislation that balances these competing interests, defends state sovereignty, protects against regulation without representation by states, and promotes simplicity and fairness for traditional retailers and online vendors alike. “A single decision from the High Court would impose a one-dimensional, heavy-handed solution that short-circuits the legislative process. Unlike the court system, Congress is much better equipped to adopt a nuanced solution that will protect all parties’ legitimate interests without burdening small business owners unfairly. “I believe a legislative solution to the problem of remote sales tax collection is feasible, and I urge the court to allow Congress to finish its job.” Background Read the full text of the brief in opposition to the petition. Previously, Goodlatte described the history of his efforts to resolve the remote sales tax issue. He has also outlined seven basic principles that must be included in any legislative solution for remote sales tax.
12.06.2017	Today the House of Representatives took action to protect Americans’ constitutional right to bear arms and enhance public safety. share: f t The House of Representatives today approved a bill to protect the Second Amendment and curb gun violence, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017 (H.R. 38). This bipartisan bill, sponsored by Congressman Richard Hudson (R-N.C.), allows people with a state-issued concealed carry license or permit, or individuals who are citizens of states that do not require a permit to carry a concealed firearm, to carry a concealed firearm in any other state that allows concealed carry, as long as the individual follows the laws of that state. H.R. 38 also contains the Fix NICS Act of 2017, a bipartisan bill that ensures federal and state authorities comply with existing law and report criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The Fix NICS Act penalizes federal agencies that fail to report relevant criminal records to the FBI, incentivizes states to improve their reporting, and directs federal funding to make sure domestic violence records are accurately reported to the FBI. Further, the bill requires the Attorney General to report to Congress within 180 days the number of times that a bump stock has been used in the commission of a crime in the United States and whether penalties under current law already apply to the use of weapons equipped with bump stocks in the commission of violent crimes. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, applauded House approval of H.R. 38 in the statement below: “Today the House of Representatives took action to protect Americans’ constitutional right to bear arms and enhance public safety. The Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act ensures that law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment right does not end when they cross state lines. Citizens with a state-issued concealed carry license or permit, or individuals who are citizens of states that do not require a permit to carry a concealed firearm, should not have to worry about losing these constitutional rights when entering another state. “Further, the bill strengthens our nation’s existing laws by ensuring criminal activity is reported to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Tragically, our nation has all too often witnessed heinous acts of violence by criminals who should never have been able to purchase a firearm. We must ensure that both federal and state authorities are properly and accurately reporting criminal information to NICS so that we prevent crime and protect lives. I thank Congressmen Hudson and Culberson for their work on this legislation and call on the Senate to pass it.” Click here for video of Congressman Goodlatte’s statement in support of H.R. 38 on the House floor.
12.05.2017	President Trump’s commitment to robust enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws has produced significant results. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security’s end-of-year statistics for Immigration and Customs Enforcement and Customs and Border Protection: “President Trump’s commitment to robust enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws has produced significant results. The Trump Administration’s strong action has caused illegal immigration to drop significantly at the U.S.-Mexico border and has sent the strong message to the world that our immigration laws will be enforced. While the Trump Administration has reversed many of the Obama Administration’s disastrous policies and has made tremendous strides to restore the rule of law, it’s clear that we need to improve our nation’s immigration laws and provide more tools to further reduce illegal immigration, drug trafficking, human smuggling, and keep dangerous criminal aliens off our streets. “The House Judiciary Committee has produced a number of bills to strengthen the enforcement of our immigration laws within the interior of the United States, combat misguided and dangerous sanctuary policies that shield criminals from the law, reform the refugee and asylum programs, ensure unaccompanied minors who make the dangerous journey to the U.S. are safely returned home, and expand E-verify nationwide to reduce incentives for those seeking to come to our country illegally. The House must pass all of these bills to provide the Trump Administration the tools needed to secure the border and enforce our immigration laws, and to ensure that future administrations do not ignore immigration enforcement laws.” Information on the House Judiciary Committee’s efforts to improve our nation’s immigration laws can be found here.
12.05.2017	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), the Dean of the Virginia Congressional Delegation, met with Governor-elect Ralph Northam and members of the Virginia Delegation in the House of Representatives. The meeting was an opportunity for the Members to share their thoughts about ways the incoming Governor could work with the federal government in a collaborative, bipartisan fashion to benefit the Commonwealth. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “I was pleased to meet with Governor-elect Northam today and share with him our federal priorities and opportunities to work together on behalf of the Commonwealth. I mentioned how a comprehensive rural broadband strategy to deliver 21st century technology to the entire state would be a significant economic generator, as well as the importance of improving regional transportation needs with upgrades to I-81 and investment in the proposed I-73 corridor. I share my colleagues’ interest in working with the new Administration in Richmond to find solutions that advance the interests of the Commonwealth and our constituents.”
12.05.2017	It is deeply troubling that many women and young girls in the United States are at risk of female genital mutilation. share: f t The House of Representatives today unanimously approved by a vote of 409-0 the Stopping Abusive Female Exploitation (SAFE) Act (H.R. 3317). This bill, introduced by Congressman Dave Trott (R-Mich.) and approved by the House Judiciary Committee last month, prevents a horrific crime against women and young girls by increasing the maximum penalty for female genital mutilation. The Center for Disease Control estimates that at least half a million females in the United States have undergone genital mutilation or are at risk of having it done. While female genital mutilation is illegal in the United States, the federal penalty is much weaker than penalties in other countries. Currently, the first federal case involving female genital mutilation is being tried in Southeast Michigan where two doctors and the wife of one of the doctors have been charged with performing this illegal procedure on two young girls. The SAFE Act combats this human rights abuse by raising the maximum penalty for female genital mutilation from five years to 15 years. It also calls on state governments to ensure that they have proper laws in place for healthcare providers, school officials, and adults to report to local law enforcement about suspected genital mutilation. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s passage of the SAFE Act: “It is deeply troubling that many women and young girls in the United States are at risk of female genital mutilation. This barbaric practice violates basic human rights in a horrific way, and we must ensure our laws appropriately deter and punish those seeking to harm women. The SAFE Act contains new tools to fight this human rights abuse, and I thank Congressman Trott for his efforts to protect young girls and women from this heinous crime. I applaud the House for approving this bill and call on the Senate to pass it without delay.”
12.04.2017	Please click here for a downloadable PDF file with citations. I am the Chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Committee has jurisdiction over the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution and issues concerning interstate commerce that arise out of States’ measures to collect taxes on sales to their citizens by sellers residing outside of the States’ respective borders. Since I became Chairman in 2013, I, Members of the Committee, and Committee staff have spent literally thousands of hours on these issues. In September 2013, after some study, I released seven “Basic Principles on Remote Sales Tax.” These principles were well received and generally agreed upon. Of particular note were the specific principles of “No Regulation Without Representation” and “Simplicity.” Discussions with stakeholders ensued. On March 12, 2014, I convened a hearing to explore five solutions that had emerged during the discussions. Two options emerged as frontrunners. One, the Remote Transaction Parity Act (RTPA), essentially would have legislatively overturned Quill Corp. v. North Dakota, 504 U.S. 298 (1992), in exchange for states simplifying their tax codes. However, RTPA presented lingering concerns about compliance burdens and fresh concerns about expansion of states’ cross-border regulatory reach. To address these concerns, I favored an origin-based solution under which sellers would collect tax on interstate sales under the rates and rules of their home state and remit the tax collected to their home-state taxing authority. The seller’s state would then be responsible for forwarding the tax to the customer’s state via a proven clearinghouse method used for the collection of commercial fuel use taxes. Sellers would only be legally responsible to their home state taxing authority, so there would be neither cross-border audits nor other regulatory assertions of authority by taxing States over remote sellers with no physical presence in the taxing States. This approach was novel, but it was clear that fresh thinking was needed to break the logjam that had hitherto confronted Congress. As with many new concepts, it took some time to educate interested parties on the details. Numerous questions were raised and answered, including how to address potential tax havens in States with no sales taxes. Internet sellers, who had opposed other solutions, embraced the simplicity of this one. However, traditional retailers worried that, because the tax rate applied to remote sales would be based on the seller’s location, not the customer’s, the plan did not fully level the playing field. Traditional retailers in high-tax states might still lose customers to online retailers based in low-tax jurisdictions who would be collecting at a lower rate. Experts proceeded to assist the Committee to identify the extent to which this approach would solve the bulk of the problem. Between July and December 2014, a series of technical articles analyzing the concept appeared in the leading trade publication for tax practitioners. In the meantime, the Committee continued to seek additional compromises that would close any lingering rate gap. Through these discussions, the Committee arrived at the critical insight that the greatest complexity for sellers lies in the tax base, not the tax rate. Determining the taxability of the same item in over 13,000 jurisdictions with different rules is the major challenge. Once the remote seller knows whether the item is taxable, the rate is just arithmetic. This was a breakthrough moment for the Committee. In 2015, we proposed a revised compromise, under which sellers would follow their home state rules on taxability (base), but would collect at the rates applicable in their customers’ states, provided that the seller’s home state incorporated those rates into its own tax laws. This approach achieved critical price parity for traditional retailers while keeping compliance simple for online sellers. In fact, because compliance would be so simple, no State-subsidized software would be necessary for sellers to identify taxability, saving States an estimated $2 billion annually as compared to other approaches. As before, Internet sellers would answer only to their home state taxing authority, so there would be no cross-border reach. The Committee’s analysis is that this compromise would capture between 80 percent and 100 percent of the tax revenue on cross-border sales not currently being collected. The Committee spent the ensuing months meeting with States and localities, online sellers, traditional retailers, consumer groups, tax experts, and other interested parties to test and refine the concept. In August 2016, Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-CA) and I released draft legislative language embodying the compromise. The draft, entitled the “Online Sales Simplification Act” (OSSA), received support from unprecedented quarters. Over 100 online retailers wrote to Congress in support of the draft bill. Most importantly, the revised draft won the support of a leading national retailer that had sided with the States against Quill and rejected earlier versions of the Committee’s compromise solution. Certainly, the draft was not perfect. In the ensuing months, the Committee held marathon meetings in the hopes of ironing out the remaining issues before the end of the 114th Congress. In the end, the Committee ran out of time. However, the problem is becoming progressively less difficult to solve as seventeen of the top eighteen online retailers collect use tax on all of their online sales. In 2017, at the start of the 115th Congress, the Committee resumed its work, but, frankly, the pendency of the litigation challenging Quill has hindered negotiations. In particular, States that oppose the limitations of Quill believe that the U.S. Supreme Court will overturn that decision if they simply wait for action by the Court and do not agree to a congressionally proposed solution. This leaves them less open to compromise with Congress. Nevertheless, the Committee persists in its efforts to achieve a legislative solution, as the Court in Quill encouraged Congress to do.
11.30.2017	Reforming the RFS remains a major priority, and we will continue working to see a legislative solution move forward through Congress. share: f t Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Steve Womack (R-Ark.), and Jim Costa (D-Calif.) released the following statement on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) finalized rule establishing renewable fuel volumes under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) for 2018: “The RFS has run out of gas, but that hasn’t stopped the EPA from once again acting to prop up the ethanol industry. The 2018 volumes announced today are more of the same, as another 15 billion gallons of corn ethanol will be added to our nation’s fuel supply next year. Who will bear the brunt of the ethanol mandate? American consumers, food producers, livestock farmers, vehicles, small engines, and even the environment stand to experience the harmful impacts of more ethanol forced into the market. These numbers underscore exactly why Congress must act. Our bill, the RFS Reform Act, is an absolute fix that can begin the needed process of decreasing the burdensome effects of the ethanol mandate. Reforming the RFS remains a major priority, and we will continue working to see a legislative solution move forward through Congress.” Earlier this year, Goodlatte, Welch, Womack, and Costa re-introduced the RFS Reform Act (H.R. 1315), which eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels.
11.29.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on House passage of H.Res. 630, introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), requiring each Member, officer, and employee of the House of Representatives to complete a program of training in workplace rights and responsibilities annually: “Sexual harassment and misconduct cannot be tolerated anywhere, and that includes Congress. I am deeply concerned about recent reports of harassment in congressional offices, and this issue must be taken seriously. Prior to this resolution coming to the floor, I had directed my staff and I to complete training in workplace rights, including sexual harassment awareness. Today’s resolution will now mandate this training throughout the House for all Members and staff. Mandatory training for congressional offices is a good, common sense measure. It is becoming increasingly clear that the House needs to improve its policies and procedures to better protect victims of harassment in the workplace. The House Administration Committee is conducting an extensive review on the issue of harassment in the congressional workplace, and I hope they will make appropriate reforms.”
11.29.2017	Today the House Judiciary Committee took action to protect Americans’ constitutional right to bear arms and enhance public safety. share: f t The House Judiciary Committee today approved two bills to protect the Second Amendment and curb gun violence, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017 and the Fix NICS Act of 2017. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s Committee approval of these bills in the statement below. Chairman Goodlatte: “Today the House Judiciary Committee took action to protect Americans’ constitutional right to bear arms and enhance public safety. The Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act ensures that law-abiding citizens’ Second Amendment right does not end when they cross state lines. Citizens with a state-issued concealed carry license or permit, or individuals who are citizens of states that do not require a permit to carry a concealed firearm, should not have to worry about losing these rights when entering another state that may have different rules and regulations. “Further, the Fix NICS Act strengthens our nation’s existing laws by ensuring criminals are reported to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. Tragically, our nation has all too often witnessed heinous acts of violence by criminals who should never have been able to purchase a firearm. We must ensure that both federal and state authorities are properly and accurately reporting criminals to NICS so that we prevent crime and protect lives. “I thank Representatives Hudson and Culberson for their work on these important bills and look forward to the House of Representatives taking them up in the coming weeks.” The House Judiciary Committee first approved by a vote of 19-11 the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017 (H.R. 38), sponsored by Representative Richard Hudson (R-N.C.). This bill allows people with a state-issued concealed carry license or permit, or individuals who are citizens of states that do not require a permit to carry a concealed firearm, to conceal a handgun in any other state that allows concealed carry, as long as the individual follows the laws of that state. The Committee also approved by a vote of 17-6 the Fix NICS Act of 2017 (H.R. 4477), sponsored by Representative John Culberson (R-Texas). This bipartisan, bicameral bill ensures federal and state authorities comply with existing law and report criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The Fix NICS Act also penalizes federal agencies that fail to report relevant criminal records to the FBI, incentivizes states to improve their reporting, and directs federal funding to make sure domestic violence records are accurately reported to the FBI. Further, the bill requires the Bureau of Justice Statistics to report to Congress within 180 days the number of times that a bump stock has been used in the commission of a crime in the United States.
11.22.2017	Chairman Pai’s proposed Restoring Internet Freedom Order represents a much-needed reversal from the one-size-fits-all regulations of the previous administration that would have stifled marketplace competition and discouraged innovation. share: f t Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai circulated a draft of his Restoring Internet Freedom Order, which will be voted on December 14, 2017. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement: “I applaud FCC Chairman Pai for his commitment to the FCC’s tradition of light-touch regulation that encourages innovation for broadband and internet services. Chairman Pai’s proposed Restoring Internet Freedom Order represents a much-needed reversal from the one-size-fits-all regulations of the previous administration that would have stifled marketplace competition and discouraged innovation. “In contrast, Chairman Pai’s efforts would liberate internet service providers and small businesses from unnecessary regulations and allow the Federal Trade Commission to establish clear procedures to monitor unfair practices. In addition to these efforts, I look forward to continuing to work with the FTC, the FCC, and all stakeholders to ensure that our antitrust laws are equipped and being used to aggressively punish anticompetitive and discriminatory conduct on the internet.”
11.16.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released a statement today after voting in support of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) in the U.S. House of Representatives: “More jobs, lower and fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks – these are the goals of tax reform. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act is the pro-growth tax reform America needs. By creating a simpler, fairer tax system, the reforms in this bill will help put more money in the pockets of families and encourage businesses to grow and create jobs in the United States. It’s estimated that the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will lead to the creation of nearly 25,000 new jobs in Virginia and increase income for middle-income families by more than $2,500. This bill also lowers individual tax rates for low and middle-income families, expands the Child Tax Credit, closes loopholes, and reduces the tax rate on small businesses to the lowest levels since World War II. "America’s current tax code is stuck in the past. It’s holding back our economy. That’s why Congress must take this opportunity to enact common sense tax reform and create a tax system that works for taxpayers. Now, it’s the Senate’s turn to do their part to deliver tax relief to families across the country. I urge the Senate to keep the positive momentum going and get this bill to the President’s desk.” For more information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit fairandsimple.gop.
11.15.2017	The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act makes much-needed reforms to the H-1B program to curtail abuse of the system and protect American workers. share: f t The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote bipartisan legislation to protect American jobs by reforming a high-skilled visa program. The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act (H.R. 170) – introduced by Representative Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) – reforms the H-1B visa category to help prevent the outsourcing of American jobs. The H-1B program was created by Congress to help grow the economy by granting temporary visas to highly-skilled professionals. While reforms to the program were made nearly 20 years ago, they need to be updated to close loopholes that now exist that contribute to the displacement of American workers. The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act makes changes to the visa program to prevent H-1B dependent employers from bringing in foreign workers to replace American workers at low salaries that undermine the wages of American workers. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee approval of the Protect and Grow American Jobs Act: “Our immigration programs must put American workers and our nation’s interests first, and unfortunately that is not the case currently with the H-1B visa program. The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act makes much-needed reforms to the H-1B program to curtail abuse of the system and protect American workers. I thank Representative Issa for his work on this legislation and urge a vote on it by the House of Representatives.” Background: The Problem: Under the changes made to the H-1B visa program in 1998, H-1B-dependent companies – generally, companies whose workforces are composed of 15% or more of H-1B workers – must promise to recruit for U.S. workers before petitioning for H-1B workers and hire all qualified Americans who apply. They must also not lay-off U.S. workers (or have their client companies do so) and replace them with H-1B workers within a certain time frame. H-1B dependent employers can avoid these two requirements if their H-1B workers are paid at least $60,000 annually or hold master’s or higher degrees. The $60,000 figure, when enacted in 1998, was higher than the wage paid to the average American worker in fields such as computer science. Since the $60,000 level has never been adjusted for inflation, it is now little more than half of what the average American worker makes. It no longer serves as a valid justification for H-1B dependent companies to not have to comply with the no lay-off and recruitment of U.S. worker requirements. The no lay-off requirement established in 1998 is itself flawed in that it only protects American workers from lay-offs for 90 days after an employer files an H-1B petition. However, today the vast majority of H-1B workers don’t even begin work until after this 90 day period has ended – so the no lay-off protection is illusory. The Solution: The Protect and Grow American Jobs Act makes a number of changes to protect American workers. The bill prohibits H-1B dependent employers from replacing American workers with H-1B employees – there are no longer any exceptions. It also lengthens the no-layoff policy for H-1B dependent employers and their client companies for as long an H-1B employee works at the company, which means they cannot layoff equivalent U.S. workers. For H-1B dependent employers to be exempted from the requirement that U.S. workers be recruited first, the Protect and Grow American Jobs Act dramatically increases the salary requirements for H-1B workers. They must pay the lower of $135,000—which is indexed for inflation—or the average wage for the occupation in the area of employment, but with a floor of $90,000. The bill also strengthens the Department of Labor’s enforcement arsenal to ensure that H-1B dependent employers abide by the rules.
11.14.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the conclusion of today’s oversight hearing on the U.S. Department of Justice: “I thank Attorney General Jeff Sessions for spending hours testifying before the House Judiciary Committee today and for answering our many questions on numerous topics. Attorney General Sessions did an excellent job of answering our questions, clarifying his position on various matters, and being straightforward unlike his predecessors, Attorneys General Lynch and Holder. I commend him for his transparency and candor, and look forward to continuing to work with him to ensure the Department of Justice meets its mission of enforcing the laws of the United States.”
11.09.2017	I extend my deepest thanks to the people of Virginia’s Sixth District who have placed their trust in me. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following letter today announcing that he will not seek re-election in 2018: Dear Friend, When I first decided to run for Congress there were several things I wanted to achieve for the Commonwealth of Virginia and our nation. I had a strong passion for public service, a love of the law and the judicial system, and a deep appreciation for the people who call western and central Virginia home. These passions led me to serve on the Judiciary and Agriculture Committees throughout my time in the House, and have shaped my work on policies impacting the American people. I’ve had the privilege to serve as Chairman of both of these committees, and I’ve been proud to work on policies that have become law and advance fiscal conservatism, personal liberty, economic growth, and limited government. For the past 25 years, it has been my honor to represent the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia. I cannot begin to express how blessed I am to have had the opportunity to serve and take part in the great experiment of self-government envisioned by our Founders. It has been a labor of love to work countless hours and travel endless miles on the roads of our District for a quarter of a century. Every two years, Maryellen and I sat down to discuss whether to run again or not. When we discussed the 2018 election, the conversation ended a little differently than in past years. After much contemplation and prayer, we decided it was the right time for me to step aside and let someone else serve the Sixth District. I will not seek re-election. With my time as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee ending in December 2018, this is a natural stepping-off point and an opportunity to begin a new chapter of my career and spend more time with my family, particularly my granddaughters. While I’m not running for re-election, my work in the 115th Congress is far from done. There is much that I hope we can accomplish in the next year, including: bolstering enforcement of our immigration laws and reforming the legal immigration system, simplifying the tax code in order to stimulate job growth and benefit families in the Sixth District, enacting criminal justice reform, repealing Obamacare, advancing protections of the freedoms and liberties enshrined in our Constitution, and, of course, continuing first-class constituent service for the citizens of the Sixth District. I look forward to working with the House Leadership, the Senate, and President Trump in bringing real conservative change to our country. I extend my deepest thanks to the people of Virginia’s Sixth District who have placed their trust in me. It is truly you who are the highlight of my time in elected office. I’ve had the good fortune of having an amazing staff team during my time in Congress – both in my Sixth District offices as well as in the Judiciary and Agriculture Committees. They’ve done excellent work, and I greatly value their commitment to serving the Sixth District and the American people. I’d also like to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in Congress with whom I’ve had the opportunity to work over the years. I genuinely appreciate your friendship and support. And finally, none of this would have been possible without the love and support of my wife, Maryellen, and our children, Bobby, Jen, and Jen’s husband, Matt. They have my enduring love and gratitude. I look forward to what the next chapter brings. Sincerely, Bob
11.08.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 27-8 the USA Liberty Act (H.R. 3989), a bipartisan bill that reforms and reauthorizes Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to protect both national security and Americans’ civil liberties. The bill was introduced last month by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Representative John Rutherford (R-Fla.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.). The USA Liberty Act preserves the core purpose of Section 702: the collection of communications by targeting non-U.S. persons located outside the U.S. in order to identify and thwart terrorist plots against our nation and our citizens. The bill also creates a new framework of protections and transparency requirements to ensure that the government’s use of Section 702 accords with principles enshrined in our Constitution that protect individual liberty. It provides new accountability measures to address the unmasking of U.S. persons’ identities and new reporting requirements on the number of U.S. persons who have been swept up in Section 702 collection. The bill also enhances national security by increasing penalties for those who leak classified information and calling on the intelligence agencies to share information with each other and with our allies to combat terrorism. A summary of the bill can be found here. Chairman Goodlatte released the following statement on today’s Committee passage of the USA Liberty Act: “The USA Liberty Act is a carefully drafted, bipartisan bill that protects Americans’ lives and their civil liberties. This bill reauthorizes a critical national security tool that keeps Americans safe, FISA Section 702, but also reforms it to protect Americans’ constitutional rights. It contains more accountability, transparency, and oversight so that the American people have confidence that our cherished liberties continue to be protected as the intelligence community keeps us safe from foreign enemies wishing to harm our nation and citizens. The bill also contains a number of measures to further enhance national security so that our country remains free and safe. “As FISA Section 702 is set to expire at the end of the year, the USA Liberty Act is the best legislative solution to preserve this important national security tool while also providing for much needed reforms. I urge the House to vote on the USA Liberty Act soon so that the intelligence community is able to identify and thwart terrorist plots while Americans’ constitutional rights are better protected.” Background: FISA Section 702, which will expire on December 31, 2017, authorizes surveillance of the communications of non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States in order to protect national security. It reportedly contributes to a quarter of all National Security Agency surveillance and has been used on multiple occasions to detect and prevent horrific terrorist plots against our country. Although Congress designed this authority to target non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States, it is clear that Section 702 surveillance programs can and do incidentally collect information about U.S. persons when U.S. persons communicate with the foreign targets of Section 702 surveillance.
11.02.2017	I’ve advocated for common sense tax reform throughout my time in Congress, and I am pleased to see this effort move forward to deliver the tax relief folks in Virginia and across the country need. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) in the U.S. House of Representatives: “Cutting taxes goes hand in hand with job creation and economic growth. After many months of work and discussion, I am encouraged by the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. At its very core this bill is about tax relief for American families. It nearly doubles the standard deduction to protect more of your hard-earned money, and lowers individual tax rates for low and middle income Americans. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will also help to bolster the growth of businesses of all sizes in the United States, and keep jobs in our communities instead of being shipped overseas. As the Ways and Means Committee prepares to consider this bill next week, I will carefully examine the details of the plan and how they will impact the Sixth District. I’ve advocated for common sense tax reform throughout my time in Congress, and I am pleased to see this effort move forward to deliver the tax relief folks in Virginia and across the country need. Let’s get down to business.” For more information about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit fairandsimple.gop. To review the policy highlights of this bill, click here.
11.02.2017	The Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act provides much needed tools for state and local law enforcement agencies to address gang activity. share: f t The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act (H.R. 3249) to curb the rise in gang activity and violence in the United States. This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), establishes a grant program to provide resources to state and local law enforcement agencies to combat gang activity in their communities, authorizing $50 million annually for Fiscal Year 2018 through Fiscal Year 2020. According to the Department of Justice, MS-13, a transnational gang that is notoriously violent and comprised of members mostly from Central America, has 10,000 members inside the United States and 40,000 members worldwide. MS-13 originated in Los Angeles in the 1980s and now engages in gang activities in at least 40 states and the District of Columbia. Communities in Boston, New York, Virginia, and the Washington, D.C. metro area have been hard-hit by MS-13 violence. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congresswoman Comstock applauded today’s Committee approval of the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act in the statements below. Chairman Goodlatte: “Gang violence plagues many communities across the United States, and the Commonwealth of Virginia has been particularly hard-hit by this problem. Earlier this year in my district, Raymond Wood was killed by suspected members of MS-13. As gangs have infiltrated our neighborhoods, we must ensure local law enforcement officers have the resources needed to prevent and combat gang violence and activity. The Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act provides much needed tools for state and local law enforcement agencies to address gang activity, and I thank Congresswoman Comstock for her dedication to eradicating this public safety crisis.” Congresswoman Comstock: “I want to thank Chairman Bob Goodlatte and the members of the Judiciary Committee for passing my legislation, the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act today. This bill will help steer federal funding toward frontline regional gang task forces like the Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force. The resurgence of MS-13 in Northern Virginia has led to at least eight murders over the past year tied to MS-13 and other gangs, representing a 166% increase over last year. The Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act will provide vital resources to established regional gang task forces like the one we have here in Northern Virginia so that these brave men and women can get MS-13 off of our streets. I look forward to the bill soon being voted on in the full House.” Additional Background: • In September 2017, the House of Representatives approved the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act (H.R. 3697). This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Comstock, Congressman Peter King (R-N.Y.), Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and Chairman Goodlatte combats gang violence by criminal aliens and enhances public safety. • In order to protect Americans from these violent gangs, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act ensures that alien gang members are kept off our streets by barring them from coming to the United States and detaining and removing them if they are criminal gang members or participate in gang activity. Additionally, the bill ensures that criminal alien gang members are not eligible for immigration benefits, such as asylum, special immigrant juvenile status, and temporary protected status, which are reserved for those around the world most in need of protection. • Chairman Goodlatte and Congresswoman Comstock have also called on the FBI and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to combat MS-13 gang activity in Virginia.
11.01.2017	Our immigration policy should be based primarily on our national needs, security, and economics and not in part on an arbitrary system. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the diversity visa lottery. Sayfullo Saipov, an immigrant from Uzbekistan who is allegedly responsible for yesterday’s terrorist attack in New York City, entered the United States through the diversity visa program in 2010. Congressman Goodlatte: “For years, I have called for ending the diversity visa lottery and have sponsored legislation to do just that. Tragically, we have witnessed yet again that the visa lottery poses a threat to the safety of our citizens and the security of our nation. Under the visa lottery, each successful applicant is chosen at random and given the status of permanent resident based on pure luck. “This flawed policy is just foolish in the age in which we live. Those in the world who wish us harm can easily engage in this statistical gamble with nothing to lose. Our immigration policy should be based primarily on our national needs, security, and economics and not in part on an arbitrary system.”
11.01.2017	American families and our economy have shouldered the costs of the failed ethanol mandate for far too long. share: f t Today, 64 bipartisan Members of the United States House of Representatives, led by Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Steve Womack (R-Ark.), and Jim Costa (D-Calif.), sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt emphasizing the negative impacts of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) on American consumers and the economy and urging the Agency to acknowledge the significant pitfalls and costs of the federal ethanol mandate in future rulemaking. Text of the letter is available below. Please click here for a PDF copy. Administrator Pruitt: For over a decade, the American people have been forced to live with the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), a well-intentioned but deeply flawed policy that has negatively impacted families and businesses across the United States. When the RFS was first passed in 2005, it was designed to reduce our country’s dependence on foreign oil, to protect the environment, and to revitalize rural America. However, as we look in the rear-view mirror, it’s clear that the RFS accomplished none of these goals. By diverting more than 35 percent of the annual corn harvest to fuel additive, the RFS has raised the cost of livestock production, increased food price volatility and insecurity, decreased fuel efficiency, damaged small-engine equipment, hurt the environment, and chipped away at household budgets. The combined effects of this ethanol mandate have created a hidden tax on every American consumer. Simply put, in its current state, the RFS has run out of gas. American families and our economy have shouldered the costs of the failed ethanol mandate for far too long. As Members of Congress representing communities in every region of the United States, we urge the EPA to continue to acknowledge that the RFS has significant pitfalls and costs in future rulemaking. We look forward to working with you to put forth well-founded biofuels policies that reflect market realities and benefit American families and businesses.
10.30.2017	Amtrak’s arrival today is the beginning of an exciting new opportunity for Roanoke. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the arrival of Amtrak service in Roanoke today: “Amtrak’s arrival today is the beginning of an exciting new opportunity for Roanoke. The Roanoke Valley is a great place to live, work, and visit. This new service will help make the community more accessible to others who wish to explore all we have to offer. “Today’s events are the result of many years of hard work by officials at all levels of government to the benefit of the Roanoke community. Bringing passenger rail service to western Virginia has long been a goal of mine, and I have worked over the years in Congress to help move this long process forward. I am pleased to help welcome Amtrak to the Star City.”
10.30.2017	Congressmen Morgan Griffith (VA-09) and Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) today issued the following statement after sending a letter to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Neil Chatterjee regarding the planned closure of Line 25 of the Colonial Pipeline: “We are deeply concerned about the economic impact this closure may have on Southwest Virginia. Without Line 25, gas prices will rise, truck traffic on our highways will increase, and jobs depending on the pipeline will be lost. We have asked FERC to work with us to see if there are federal regulatory options that might help prevent this unfortunate outcome.” The letter can be read here.
10.26.2017	The opioid epidemic has destroyed too many lives, families, and communities across the United States. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today attended the formal announcement at the White House by President Trump declaring the opioid crisis a public health emergency. Congressman Goodlatte issued the following statement: “The opioid epidemic has destroyed too many lives, families, and communities across the United States. We have all heard the grim statistics. These people are our neighbors, friends, and loved ones and need our help. I’ve heard from many constituents about how the opioid epidemic has hit home and affected their families. “While Congress has taken action to combat the opioid epidemic through the historic Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, it’s clear that we need more tools to combat this ever-growing problem. I commend President Trump for formally declaring the opioid crisis a public health emergency. This will bring much needed public awareness to this epidemic and hopefully prevent addiction and save lives. Additionally, the House Judiciary Committee will continue to review our nation’s laws to determine if more resources are needed to address the opioid crisis.”
10.25.2017	Last evening, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2017 (H.R. 732), a product of the House Judiciary Committee, by a vote of 238-183. This bill permanently bars federal agencies from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of settlement agreements, and requires that settlement money goes either directly to victims or to the Treasury. Congressman Goodlatte, the sponsor of this legislation, issued the following statement: “An investigation by the House Judiciary Committee last Congress revealed the Department of Justice’s abuse of power: using settlement agreements to direct money away from victims toward organizations of their choosing and away from those they disliked. DOJ’s actions contradict the spending power given explicitly to the Legislative Branch and undermine Congress’s most effective tool to hold the Executive Branch accountable. Regardless of which party is in the White House, subverting Congress to funnel money to outside organizations is unacceptable and unconstitutional. “I applaud the passage of this bipartisan bill that bans settlement payments to non-victim third parties permanently for future administrations. There should be no excuse or justification for this banned behavior, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to defend Congress’s constitutional interests and support H.R. 732.” Background: A joint investigation by the House Judiciary Committee and Financial Services Committee revealed that DOJ used mandatory donations to direct nearly a billion dollars to activist groups during the last two years of the Obama Administration. Internal documents reveal that the third-party organizations were actively involved in lobbying DOJ to receive settlement money, and that DOJ went out of its way to exclude conservative groups. The House Judiciary Committee held hearings in February 2015, May 2015, and April 2016 to question DOJ officials regarding their use of settlement agreements. The Committee also sent multiple oversight letters to DOJ requesting documents and requested that DOJ preserve all documents related to the agency’s settlement practices. This bill is similar to the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063), which passed the House by a vote of 241-174. In June, Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced that the Department of Justice would end the practice of settlement agreements to direct payments to non-victim third parties. H.R. 732 makes it permanent.
10.25.2017	The current agricultural guestworker program is unworkable for farmers, buries them in red tape and excessive costs, and must be replaced. share: f t The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 17-16 a bill to create a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. H.R. 4092, the Agricultural Guestworker Act (AG Act), authored by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), replaces the outdated and broken H-2A guestworker program with a reliable, efficient, and fair program. The H-2A program is widely known to be expensive, time-consuming, and flawed. Each year, employers using the H-2A program have to comply with a lengthy labor certification process that is slow and plagued with red tape. As a result of complying with H-2A regulations, employers using the program almost always find themselves at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. To provide American farmers with access to a legal, stable supply of workers, the AG Act creates a new H-2C guestworker program designed to meet the needs of the diverse agriculture industry. The program covers year-round employers, like dairies, aquaculture operations, food processors, and others. Further, the AG Act allows experienced unauthorized agricultural workers to join the H-2C program and provides more flexibility to American farmers with respect to housing, transportation, and touchback periods. Congressman Bob Goodlatte said the following on today’s Committee approval of the AG Act: “Farming is a central part of American life and fuels our economy. Although no other country in the world rivals America’s agriculture industry, our nation’s farmers face many obstacles in today’s global economy. One challenge in particular is access to a stable and reliable workforce when not enough American workers can be found to fill jobs. The current agricultural guestworker program is unworkable for farmers, buries them in red tape and excessive costs, and must be replaced. “The House Judiciary Committee today approved the AG Act to replace the broken H-2A program with a reliable, efficient, and fair program and provide American farmers access to a legal, stable supply of workers for seasonal as well as year-round work. These changes will help ensure that our meat and produce continue to be grown in America and that our nation’s agricultural industry thrives in the global marketplace. I look forward to continue working with Members of Congress on this bill so that farmers can continue growing our food and our economy with the assurance that their labor needs will be met.”
10.25.2017	The Congressional Article I Powers Strengthening Act represents Congress’s commitment to an open and transparent government, due regulatory process, and respect for the Constitution. share: f t Today, the House of Representatives passed the Congressional Article I Powers Strengthening Act (H.R. 469), a product of the House Judiciary Committee, by a vote of 234-187. This legislation restores Congress’s constitutional authority by establishing clear procedures for creating regulations, sending payments from the Treasury, and intervening in court cases. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement: “The Congressional Article I Powers Strengthening Act represents Congress’s commitment to an open and transparent government, due regulatory process, and respect for the Constitution. Together, the provisions in this legislation increase accountability in the federal government, eliminate ‘sue and settle’ backdoor regulations, and give Congress concrete tools to intervene on behalf of the American people. I congratulate my colleague, Representative Doug Collins, for his strong work to enhance Congress’s ability to hold the government accountable.” Background: The Congressional Article I Powers Strengthening Act (H.R. 469) includes three pieces of legislation: The Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act, the Judgment Fund Transparency Act, and the Article I Amicus and Intervention Act. The Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act passed the House in 2016 by a vote of 244-173, and was approved by the House Judiciary Committee earlier this year by a vote of 15-8. This bill ends “sue and settle” tactics that allow federal agencies to regulate through litigation without allowing regulated parties to intervene. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt announced in October 2017 that the agency would end “sue and settle” tactics, adopting many of the provisions outlined in the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act. The Judgment Fund Transparency Act requires additional disclosures from the Treasury Department to make payments from the Judgment Fund open and transparent. This bill also prohibits all payments to state sponsors of terrorism. The Judgment Fund Transparency Act was reported favorably by the House Judiciary Committee in June 2017. The Article I Amicus and Intervention Act enhances Congress’s ability to intervene in court cases that affect its Constitutional priorities. Specifically, this bill establishes formal guidelines for DOJ to send reports to Congress, and it gives the House of Representatives the same rights as the Senate to intervene or file an amicus brief for any court in the U.S.
10.25.2017	Expanding E-Verify nationwide is a critical component to the interior enforcement of our immigration laws and will help maintain the integrity of our immigration system for the years ahead. share: f t The House Judiciary Committee tonight approved by a vote of 20-10 the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 3711). This bill, introduced by Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), and Congressman Ken Calvert (R-Calif.), preserves jobs for citizens and legal workers by requiring U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires through the E-Verify system. Created in 1996 and operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), E-Verify checks the social security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to help ensure that they are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. The program quickly confirms nearly 99 percent of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Over 740,000 American employers currently use E-Verify and 83 percent of America’s employers support a mandatory electronic verification system. A summary of key components of the Legal Workforce Act can be found here. Chairman Goodlatte applauded Committee approval of the Legal Workforce Act in the statement below: “Today the House Judiciary Committee has approved a commonsense bill, the Legal Workforce Act, to bring our nation’s employment eligibility system into the 21st century. Rather than relying on the current paper-based I-9 system that is susceptible to fraud, this bill requires all U.S. employers to use E-Verify, a web-based system. This program takes less than two minutes to use and easily identifies whether or not a new employee is allowed to work in the United States. “Expanding E-Verify nationwide is a critical component to the interior enforcement of our immigration laws and will help maintain the integrity of our immigration system for the years ahead. I thank Congressman Smith for the many years he has worked on this important bill and urge the House to bring it up for a vote soon so that we preserve jobs for legal workers and prevent illegal immigration.”
10.24.2017	The Committees will review these decisions and others to better understand the reasoning behind how certain conclusions were drawn. share: f t Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) released the following statement after opening a joint investigation into decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016: “Our justice system is represented by a blind-folded woman holding a set of scales. Those scales do not tip to the right or the left; they do not recognize wealth, power, or social status. The impartiality of our justice system is the bedrock of our republic and our fellow citizens must have confidence in its objectivity, independence, and evenhandedness. The law is the most equalizing force in this country. No entity or individual is exempt from oversight. “Decisions made by the Department of Justice in 2016 have led to a host of outstanding questions that must be answered. These include, but are not limited to: • FBI’s decision to publicly announce the investigation into Secretary Clinton’s handling of classified information but not to publicly announce the investigation into campaign associates of then-candidate Donald Trump; • FBI’s decision to notify Congress by formal letter of the status of the investigation both in October and November of 2016; • FBI’s decision to appropriate full decision making in respect to charging or not charging Secretary Clinton to the FBI rather than the DOJ; • FBI’s timeline in respect to charging decisions. “The Committees will review these decisions and others to better understand the reasoning behind how certain conclusions were drawn. Congress has a constitutional duty to preserve the integrity of our justice system by ensuring transparency and accountability of actions taken.”
10.24.2017	The Ag Act enjoys broad support from America’s agricultural community. share: f t Today, the House Judiciary Committee began consideration of the Agricultural Guestworker Act (H.R. 4092) and will reconvene its markup tomorrow. This bill, introduced by Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), creates a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers and enjoys broad support from America’s agricultural community. The AG Act provides access to a legal, stable supply of workers for seasonal as well as year-round work. Here’s what some of the leading agricultural groups are saying about the AG Act. A full list of supporters can be found here. American Dairy Coalition, representing over 30,000 farmers across the United States: “We applaud the leadership of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte in working to provide a viable solution for the United States of America’s nourishment-production industry. The AG Act is desperately needed by the agriculture industry that requires a reliable workforce to remain in business and provide the safe, affordable and abundant food supply that American consumers demand.” American Farm Bureau Federation: “The new guestworker program established by the AG Act offers vast improvements over the existing H-2A program, opening up new opportunities for subsectors such as dairy, mushrooms, and others.” National Milk Producers Federation: “The Agriculture Guestworker Act (AG Act) represents a significant, positive step forward in solving the most acute labor problem our farmers face: access to a reliable and steady labor force … We recognize that your proposal is the best vehicle to arrive at a balanced solution to the immigration conundrum.” National Pork Producers Council: “The U.S. pork industry needs a viable agriculture workforce to remain globally competitive. The current visa programs are not working for pork producers or for the broader agriculture community. The Goodlatte bill will rectify this.” National Turkey Federation, National Chicken Council, and the North American Meat Institute: “The National Turkey Federation (NTF), National Chicken Council (NCC), and North American Meat Institute (NAMI) commend the Chairman for his leadership and introduction of this legislation and are encouraged by this important step to help ensure a reliable workforce for the meat and poultry industry.” More on the AG Act can be found here.
10.19.2017	Following a very successful trip to the Rio Grande Valley, Members of the House Judiciary Committee traveled to the San Diego area. share: f t Members of the House Judiciary Committee traveled to the San Diego Sector of the U.S.-Mexico border this week to seek information about security along the U.S.-Mexico border, enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws, and the application of asylum laws. Members who traveled to San Diego include House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Representatives Steve Chabot (R-Ohio) and Steve King (R-Iowa). Chairman Goodlatte made the following statement on the delegation’s visit to the San Diego Sector: “Following a very successful trip to the Rio Grande Valley, Members of the House Judiciary Committee traveled to the San Diego area. Traveling to two very different sectors of the U.S.-Mexico border provided an excellent opportunity to see firsthand the successes and challenges that federal officials face at these diverse locations. “While the methods used by unlawful immigrants to gain entry into our country vary greatly between the different sectors of our country, one thing is the same. Years of lax enforcement policies have wreaked havoc on our borders. Millions of people have been allowed to come into the U.S. and flout our immigration laws. “The Trump Administration’s efforts to curb illegal immigration by enforcing our immigration laws have been met with success but as we heard from immigration officials on the ground at the border, there are still loopholes in the law that are being exploited to gain entry into the U.S. The House Judiciary Committee will continue working to close these dangerous loopholes in order to maintain the integrity of the U.S. immigration system.” Below are six pictures from the San Diego visit. The Members of Congress began their visit to the San Diego sector with a tour and briefing on the Border Infrastructure System (BIS), which is a fourteen mile stretch of double fencing that separates San Diego, California from Tijuana, Mexico. Members were briefed on the Border Patrol’s use of cameras and stadium style lighting along the fence line. The Members also saw the all-weather roads that the Border Patrol has constructed in this area to increase their mobility in the difficult terrain. Chairman Goodlatte and Representatives Chabot and King join Border Patrol agents in a tour of the Border Infrastructure System in the San Diego Sector Border Patrol officers took the delegation to one of many tunnels they have discovered leading from Mexico into the United States. Unlawful immigrants use these tunnels to smuggle drugs and humans into the U.S. This particular tunnel, the Galvez tunnel, starts in a warehouse in Mexico and extends toward a warehouse in the U.S. Tunneling under the border is a particularly popular method of illegal entry in this area of the U.S.-Mexico border. Chairman Goodlatte and Representatives Chabot and King are briefed by Border Patrol agents on the use of tunnels to gain illegal entry into the U.S. The delegation viewed the six completed prototypes for the proposed new border wall. Construction of two additional prototypes will be completed by October 26, 2017. Following the completion of the construction phase, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) will begin a testing phase to identify the most effective design. The prototypes are all 30 feet high, which is nearly twice the height of the current secondary border fence in the San Diego area. Chairman Goodlatte and Representative Chabot are briefed by the Army Corps of Engineers on the border wall prototypes Members toured the Otay Mesa Detention Center where they were briefed by the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review on immigration court procedures, the caseload for immigration judges, and the backlog of cases. The Chief Counsel from Immigration and Customs Enforcement-San Diego spoke to the delegation on prosecuting cases in immigration court. The Members were also briefed on processing and management of detained aliens by Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s Enforcement and Removal Operations (ICE ERO) and they were briefed on procedures for unlawful immigrants claiming credible fear in order to seek asylum in the U.S. from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). The Members of Congress toured the San Ysidro Port of Entry, which is the largest port of entry in the world. On average 137,000 individuals cross the border from Mexico to the U.S. every day at San Ysidro. This includes a daily average of 36,000 pedestrians, 64,000 vehicles and 250 buses coming across the border. The Members were briefed by CBP on vehicle arrivals and inspection, pedestrian inspection procedures, seizure processing, and the specialized technology CBP uses to conduct inspections. Chairman Goodlatte and Representative King are briefed by Sidney Aki, CBP’s Port Director at the San Ysidro Port of Entry While at the San Ysidro Port of Entry, the Members received a K-9 demonstration. CBP’s K-9 unit is an important tool in the fight against illegal drugs coming across the border. Between seven and seventeen loads of illegal drugs are seized every day at the San Ysidro Port of Entry. CBP’s K-9 unit is key in our fight against illegal drug smuggling The Members of Congress received an aerial tour of the U.S.-Mexico border and the coastline by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s Air & Marine Operations. Members were shown Torrey Pines State Beach, which is a frequent landing spot for immigrants seeking illegal entry into the U.S. by boat. Chairman Goodlatte examines the U.S.-Mexico border with CBP’s Air & Marine Operations
10.17.2017	Members of the House Judiciary Committee traveled to the Rio Grande Valley Sector of the U.S.-Mexico border on Monday, October 16, 2017 to seek information about security along the U.S.-Mexico border, enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws, and the application of asylum laws. Members who traveled to the Rio Grande Valley include House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Representatives Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and Steve King (R-Iowa). Chairman Goodlatte made the following statement on the bipartisan delegation’s visit to the Rio Grande Valley Sector: “Members of the House Judiciary Committee had a very informative and productive visit to the Rio Grande Valley Sector of the U.S.-Mexico border. I want to commend all of our federal officials on the ground at our southwest border who are working together to secure our border, enforce our immigration laws, and combat human and drug smuggling. “The Trump Administration’s efforts to enforce our immigration laws have been met with success but Congress must do more to ensure that unlawful immigrants can be safely returned to their home country and not be released into the interior of our country.” Below are five pictures from the Texas visit. The Members of Congress received a briefing at the McAllen Border Patrol Station, which is responsible for covering 800 square miles along the southwest border. The McAllen Border Patrol Station is part of the Rio Grande Valley Sector, the busiest of the nine sectors along the U.S.-Mexico border. In fiscal year 2017, the Rio Grande Valley Sector had over 22,000 apprehensions of unaccompanied alien minors and over 47,000 family unit apprehensions, far higher than any other sector along the border. The Members met with officials from U.S. Border Patrol, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Enforcement and Removal Operations (ICE ERO), and Homeland Security Investigations (HSI). Congressional delegation with Chief Patrol Agent (CPA) Manuel Padilla, Jr. and Border Patrol Agent in Charge Ryan Landrum Congressional delegation with Chief Patrol Agent (CPA) Manuel Padilla, Jr The delegation toured the Rio Grande River, where Border Patrol officers highlighted the unique challenges they face apprehending aliens attempting to enter illegally. Members saw landing points used by smugglers and unlawful immigrants to gain entry into the U.S. Chairman Goodlatte tours the Rio Grande River The U.S. Border Patrol demonstrated the different techniques they deploy to overcome the rugged terrain of the Rio Grande Valley. The horse patrol unit, which provides agents with increased mobility, is an especially effective tool in the fight against illegal immigration along this part of the border. Chairman Goodlatte and Representative King are briefed on the Border Patrol’s horse patrol by Supervisory Border Patrol Agent (SBPA) Jeff Wiggins The Members of Congress toured the Hidalgo Port of Entry, where thousands of pedestrians and vehicles cross daily from Mexico to the U.S. The Members were briefed by U.S. Customs and Border Protection on pedestrian processing including the use of biometrics, the baggage x-ray system, agriculture inspections, vehicle arrivals and inspection, and increasing national security threats. Chairman Goodlatte and Representatives Chabot and King at the Hidalgo Port of Entry The delegation will also visit the San Diego Sector of the U.S.-Mexico border.
10.16.2017	We need to ensure that the American people have an effective voice whenever agencies create regulatory policy, regardless of who is in the White House. share: f t Today, Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt issued a directive and memorandum instructing the agency to take strong steps to help end abusive “sue and settle” tactics, which allow litigants to use the courts to force regulation prematurely without input from regulated parties. The memo states, in part: “Sue and settle…interferes with the rights of the American people to provide their views on proposed regulatory decisions and have the agency thoughtfully consider these views before making a final decision. By using sue and settle to avoid the normal rulemaking processes and protections, an agency empowers special-interests at the expense of the public and parties that could have used their powers of persuasion to convince the agency to take an alternative action that could better serve the American people.” House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Rep. Doug Collins (R-Ga.), chief sponsor of H.R. 469, the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act, which prohibits sue and settle tactics and ensures public input for regulations, released the following statements: Chairman Goodlatte: “I commend EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt for his decision to help end the reprehensible practice of using ‘sue and settle’ tactics to regulate through litigation. This change in EPA policy represents a strong beginning to a much-needed return to transparency, due regulatory process, and respect for constitutional authority. “The Administrator's action commits EPA to adopt voluntarily many of the provisions in H.R. 469, the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act, which passed out of the House Judiciary Committee this year. Now that the EPA has taken this important step, Congress needs to do its part to make this statute's reforms permanent for all federal agencies and for all future administrations. We need to ensure that the American people have an effective voice whenever agencies create regulatory policy, regardless of who is in the White House. I expect that the House will take swift action and pass Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act soon.” Rep. Collins: “No government agency should collude with special interest groups to redefine its priorities through covert consent decrees. The EPA’s decision to crack down on this practice will give Americans back their right to know about and respond to federal rulemaking, and I applaud Secretary Pruitt for taking this step today. “I will continue working to snuff out back-room litigation that unfairly impacts our citizens. The EPA’s directive reflects the principles outlined in the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act, which would ensure that the sue-and-settle mischief we witnessed during the last administration would never again take hold in a federal agency.” Background: The House Judiciary Committee approved H.R. 469 by a vote of 15-8 on July 12, 2017. The Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act specifically provides: • Greater transparency. Agencies must publish sue-and-settle notices of intent to sue, complaints, decrees, settlements, and attorneys’ fee awards and report on them to Congress. • Greater rights for regulated entities and the public. Agencies cannot propose sue-and-settle decrees and settlements to the courts until parties affected by the proposed regulations can intervene and participate in settlement negotiations and the proposed decrees and settlements are published for public notice and comment. • Greater judicial scrutiny. Courts weighing proposed decrees and settlements must assure compliance with normal rulemaking procedures and account for agencies’ competing mandatory duties not within the litigation. • Greater accountability. The Attorney General must certify to the court his or her approval of proposed decrees that convert discretionary authorities into mandatory duties. • Greater flexibility for new administrations. Courts are allowed to review any new administration’s motion to modify a consent decree in light of changed facts and circumstances or competing duties.
10.12.2017	Interior enforcement and border security are vital to enhancing public safety, keeping the door open to law-abiding immigrants, protecting our borders, and restoring the rule of law. share: f t Last night, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, spoke on the House floor with members of the Republican Study Committee on the importance of bolstering enforcement of existing immigration law and securing the border. Congressman Goodlatte’s remarks on the House floor, as prepared, may be found below. Click here to watch video of the speech. Mr. Speaker, I rise to discuss the importance of bolstering enforcement of existing immigration law and securing the border. Interior enforcement and border security are vital to enhancing public safety, keeping the door open to law-abiding immigrants, protecting our borders, and restoring the rule of law. Under President Obama, interior enforcement deteriorated dramatically as his administration refused to enforce immigration laws, rewrote the law through executive action, and implemented policies that enabled millions of unlawful and criminal aliens to remain in the United States free from any possibility of removal. The Obama Administration’s policies had—and continue to have—disturbing consequences. The rule of law was undermined as hundreds of thousands of Central American unaccompanied minors and families arrived at the Southwest border during the Obama years and were released into the U.S. And too many Americans were killed or seriously harmed at the hands of aliens who joined gangs or committed crimes. Fortunately, the Trump Administration has begun to reverse the Obama Administration’s disastrous policies and is enforcing the law as written by Congress. President Trump has issued executive orders to strengthen interior enforcement and implement strong border security measures. The Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security are already executing these executive orders and there have been quick results. Illegal border crossings at the Southwest border dropped dramatically at the beginning of the Trump Administration, due in large part to consistent enforcement of the law and the strong message that the U.S. no longer tolerates illegal immigration. However, illegal border crossings are rising again despite the best efforts of the Trump Administration, demonstrating that the President should be granted additional, long-needed legislative tools. The House Judiciary Committee has been hard at work to improve our nation’s immigration laws and has already approved bills that are crucial to enable our country to gain control of our immigration system. The Davis-Oliver Act is the keystone of our interior enforcement efforts and is named after Placer County Detective Michael Davis, Jr. and Sacramento County Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver who were murdered by an unlawful immigrant in October 2014. The bill improves the enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws to enhance public safety. Specifically, the Davis-Oliver Act provides tools to crack down on dangerous sanctuary city policies and contains much needed changes to protect American communities from unlawful immigrants who commit crimes in the United States or are gang members. The Davis-Oliver Act also enhances national security by improving our nation’s first line of defense, the visa issuance process. It provides thorough screening of foreign nationals seeking to enter the United States in order to help prevent terrorists from entering our country. The bill also ensures the rule of law and removes the ability of any President to unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement by granting states and localities the authority to voluntarily assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law and to enforce their own immigration laws consistent with federal practices. The House Judiciary Committee has also approved several bills to reform the asylum and refugee programs to curtail rampant fraud while ensuring that our nation continues to be a safe haven for those persecuted around the world. The surge of Central American unaccompanied alien minors and family units seeking to enter the U.S. illegally at our southern border put a strain on manpower and resources. It also exposed loopholes in our nation’s immigration laws that are being exploited by smugglers and others seeking to game the system. The Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act makes a number of improvements to our nation’s laws to prevent fraud and abuse in the system and ensure that asylum is reserved for those truly fleeing persecution in their home countries. Further, the Protection of Children Act makes sure that unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are swiftly and safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. And the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. The House Judiciary Committee also plans to bring up a bill that protects jobs for citizens and legal workers, the Legal Workforce Act. This bill requires all U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires through the tried and tested E-Verify system. E-Verify quickly confirms 99% of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Over 740,000 American employers currently use E-Verify and 83% of America’s employers support a mandatory electronic verification system. While many aspects of our nation’s immigration system need to be improved, we must strengthen the enforcement of our immigration laws. Immigration enforcement is crucial to maintain our sovereignty, to protect national security, and to restore the rule of law. I call on Congress to take up the House Judiciary Committee’s immigration enforcement bills soon.
10.12.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote a bipartisan bill to improve mental health services for law enforcement officers. The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act of 2017 (H.R. 2228), introduced by Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), directs the Department of Justice, in consultation with the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, to develop resources to equip local law enforcement agencies to address mental health challenges faced by officers. The bill also makes grants available to initiate peer mentoring pilot programs, develop training for mental health providers specific to law enforcement mental health needs, and support law enforcement officers by studying the effectiveness of crisis hotlines and annual mental health checks. The 900,000 sworn law enforcement officers in the United States have one of the most stressful occupations in the world. Research has shown time and again that police officer occupational stress is directly related to higher rates of heart disease, divorce, sick days taken, alcohol abuse, and major psychological illnesses such as acute stress disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and anxiety disorders. Many police departments have instituted mental health programs as preventative measures. These programs have had significant, successful results, such as a decrease in the number of police officer suicides. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded today’s Committee approval of the Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “Our nation’s law enforcement officers have one of the toughest jobs in the nation. Every day, they risk their lives to keep the peace and protect our neighborhoods from criminals. Due to the stressful nature of their occupations, law enforcement officers need better access to mental health services to improve their health and help alleviate the anxiety that is a byproduct of their jobs. The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act provides a number of resources to help improve mental health services for police officers cross the country. I thank Congresswoman Brooks for her work on this bipartisan bill and call on the House to take it up without delay.” The Law Enforcement Mental Health and Wellness Act is supported by the Fraternal Order of Police, the National Association of Police Officers, the Major County Sheriffs of America, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the National District Attorneys Association, and the Sergeants Benevolent Association.
10.11.2017	This crisis affects Americans across all socioeconomic levels in all regions of the country – including in my home district in Virginia – and has rightfully gained the attention of Congress. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today testified before the House Energy and Commerce Committee as part of a bipartisan “Member Day” on the opioid crisis. The bipartisan Member Day allowed representatives to testify about the opioid epidemic, share local and personal stories, and highlight potential legislative solutions. Below are Goodlatte’s remarks, as prepared. Click here to watch the video. Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Green, Members of the Committee: thank you for the opportunity to testify about the opioid crisis in America. This crisis affects Americans across all socioeconomic levels in all regions of the country – including in my home district in Virginia – and has rightfully gained the attention of Congress. According to the Northern Shenandoah Valley Substance Abuse Coalition, they have seen 11 opioid overdoses resulting in four deaths since September 20th – making 33 deaths in this portion of my District so far this year. Just recently, I met with a mother in Roanoke whose daughter is an opioid addict living on the streets. Her concern for her daughter was heartbreaking to hear. Sadly, I know that every Member of Congress in this room has heard these stories of bright futures wasted away and lives taken too early. That is why we must act to provide more tools to help addicts reclaim and rebuild their lives, stop drug traffickers, and make our communities safer. The Committee on Energy & Commerce, as well as the House Judiciary Committee, of which I currently serve as Chair, has been active in the fight to combat this epidemic. Since last year, the Judiciary Committee has passed seven legislative measures that address the multifaceted nature of the opioid epidemic. Notably, the Judiciary and Energy & Commerce Committees worked collaboratively to see the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act signed into law last year. This bipartisan legislation combats the opioid epidemic by establishing a streamlined, comprehensive opioid abuse grant program, including vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, drug and other alternative treatment courts, and residential substance abuse treatment. We have also targeted those who traffic in opioids. The Transnational Drug Trafficking Act, which is now law, improves law enforcement’s ability to pursue international drug manufacturers, brokers, and distributors in “source nations.” Federal prosecutors can now use the important tools in that bill to pursue foreign drug traffickers who are poisoning American citizens. Additionally, in July the Judiciary Committee reported favorably the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act. It is an unfortunate reality that synthetic drug use and the opioid epidemic are inextricably linked. Heroin is regularly laced with synthetic drugs, such as fentanyl. This bill ensures that our laws keep pace with the creation of new, chemically-altered drugs and provides law enforcement with the tools needed to keep these drugs off of our streets. Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, I appreciate the opportunity to testify. My dedication to curtailing the opioid crisis is unwavering. I look forward to our continued work together to that end.
10.08.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s immigration priorities: “The Trump Administration has put forth a serious proposal to address the enforcement of our immigration laws and border security. Many of these policies have been included in legislation passed by the House Judiciary Committee. As a member of the Speaker’s working group on immigration, we will take time to review the Administration’s priorities and consider their implications for our immigration system and the rule of law. One thing is clear, however: we cannot fix the DACA problem without fixing all of the issues that led to the underlying problem of illegal immigration in the first place.” For information on the House Judiciary Committee’s efforts to improve the United States’ immigration system, click here.
10.06.2017	The USA Liberty Act protects Americans’ lives and their civil liberties. share: f t Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), joined by Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), introduced the USA Liberty Act (H.R. 3989). This bipartisan bill reforms and reauthorizes Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), which is set to expire at the end of this year, to protect both national security and Americans’ civil liberties. The USA Liberty Act preserves the core purpose of Section 702: the collection of communications by targeting non-U.S. persons located outside the U.S. in order to identify and thwart terrorist plots against our nation and our citizens. The bill also creates a new framework of protections and transparency requirements to ensure that the government’s use of Section 702 accords with principles enshrined in our Constitution that protect individual liberty. It provides new accountability measures to address the unmasking of U.S. persons’ identities and new reporting requirements on the number of U.S. persons who have been swept up in Section 702 collection. The bill also enhances national security by increasing penalties for those who leak classified information and calling on the intelligence agencies to share information with each other and with our allies to combat terrorism. Goodlatte released the following statement on the introduction of the USA Liberty Act: “The USA Liberty Act protects Americans’ lives and their civil liberties. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes a critical national security tool that keeps Americans safe but also reforms it to protect Americans’ constitutional rights. It contains more accountability, transparency, and oversight so that the American people have confidence that our cherished liberties continue to be protected as the intelligence community keeps us safe from foreign enemies wishing to harm our nation and citizens. The bill also contains a number of measures to further enhance national security so that our country remains free and safe. I thank the many members who have worked on this bill for months and look forward to bringing it up in the House Judiciary Committee soon.” Background: FISA Section 702, which will expire on December 31, 2017, authorizes surveillance of the communications of non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States in order to protect national security. It reportedly contributes to a quarter of all National Security Agency surveillance and has been used on multiple occasions to detect and prevent horrific terrorist plots against our country. Although Congress designed this authority to target non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States, it is clear that Section 702 surveillance programs can and do incidentally collect information about U.S. persons when U.S. persons communicate with the foreign targets of Section 702 surveillance. Additional Resources Bill Text Bill Summary Press Conference
10.05.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of H. Con. Res. 71, the House’s budget resolution: “The House budget resolution offers a serious approach to bring balance back to the federal budget. It embodies the bold, common sense policies that we need to reduce the deficit and build a better America. The federal government must recognize what families in Virginia already know – spending your way out of debt does not work. By making tough choices to reduce spending, this plan will balance the budget within 10 years. “In addition to supporting the House budget resolution, I also cast my vote for the Republican Study Committee’s budget alternative. This proposal was the tightest budget put forth in the House and would lead to balance in just six years. It also included recommendations that the House pass my bill to repeal the ethanol mandate and reduce costly federal regulations by passing the Regulatory Accountability Act. Unfortunately, this budget alternative did not pass. “Once the final budget is approved by the House and Senate, consideration of pro-growth tax reform legislation can begin. I am encouraged by the Framework agreed to by the House, Senate, and Administration. Under this, Congress now has the opportunity to provide tax relief that creates a simpler, fairer tax code, allows hardworking families to keep more of their money, and encourages businesses to invest in the United States. We must act.”
10.05.2017	Earlier today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Representative John Rutherford (R-Fla.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) held a press conference to unveil the USA Liberty Act. This bipartisan bill, which will be introduced tomorrow, reforms and reauthorizes Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) to protect national security and civil liberties. A summary of the bill can be found here. Watch the press conference here. Below are Chairman Goodlatte’s prepared remarks for the press conference. Chairman Goodlatte: Good Morning. Thank you all for being here today. The House Judiciary Committee has primary jurisdiction over the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act and over the past several years we have had tremendous, bipartisan success in ensuring that our national security tools protect Americans’ lives and their civil liberties. In June 2015, the USA Freedom Act, a product of the House Judiciary Committee, was signed into law. This law reformed Section 215 of FISA, ended the bulk collection of data, protected civil liberties and national security, and provided robust oversight and transparency of our vital national security tools. This year, the House Judiciary Committee has been hard at work again on crafting legislation to reform and reauthorize FISA Section 702, which is set to expire at the end of this year. This authority targets the communications of non-U.S. persons outside of the United States in order to protect national security. It reportedly contributes to a quarter of all National Security Agency surveillance and has been used on multiple occasions to detect and prevent horrific terrorist plots against our country. While Congress designed this authority to target non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States, it is clear that the Section 702 surveillance program can and does incidentally collect information about U.S. persons when they communicate with the foreign targets of Section 702 surveillance. The program must be reauthorized with reforms to better safeguard Americans’ civil liberties and strengthen national security. Today, we are pleased to announce that we have reached a bipartisan agreement to do just that. Tomorrow, we plan to introduce the USA Liberty Act. This bill preserves the core purpose of Section 702: the collection of communications by targeted non-U.S. persons in order to identify and thwart terrorist plots against our nation and our citizens. The bill also creates a new framework of protections and transparency requirements to ensure that the government’s use of Section 702 accords with principles enshrined in our Constitution that protect individual liberty. We’ve provided a detailed summary of the bill for you but I’d like to point out a few of the bill’s key provisions. First, the bill addresses concerns about national security tools being used to advance criminal prosecutions in the United States. The USA Liberty Act prohibits law enforcement agencies from reading Section 702 content to search for evidence against Americans in routine criminal investigations without a court order based upon probable cause. Second, the bill contains new accountability and transparency requirements to address the unmasking of U.S. person identities, which has been a source of great concern for many Members and their constituents. Agencies will be required to document unmasking requests and approvals, and report to Congress on that information, so we can exercise our constitutional oversight responsibilities and protect Americans’ privacy. Third, the USA Liberty Act increases oversight of foreign intelligence collection, particularly under FISA Section 702. The bill contains a number of reporting requirements, such as providing Congress an update twice a year on the number of U.S. persons whose communications are incidentally collected. And fourth, the bill enhances national security, not only by ensuring the purpose of 702 remains intact, but by providing increased penalties for those that mishandle classified information, and encouraging the intelligence community to share information with each other and with our allies. I am now going to yield to the gentleman from Michigan, Ranking Member John Conyers, for his remarks.
10.05.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the enactment of California’s sanctuary state bill (SB 54): “California’s new law shielding criminals from federal immigration enforcement efforts is one of the most reckless laws enacted in recent memory. It’s unconscionable that Governor Brown would sign such an irresponsible bill into law in light of preventable murders that have occurred recently in California due to sanctuary policies. “Laws like California’s show why the reforms contained in the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Davis-Oliver Act are needed now more than ever to protect Americans from harm. Both of these bills contain important tools for law enforcement to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that permit criminals to go free and would deter irresponsible laws like California’s. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act has already been approved by the House and it is past time for the Senate to act and send this legislation to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law.” Background: • In June 2017, the House of Representatives approved the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) to strengthen the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. • Specifically, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority—the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails—by establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. It also withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE. The bill protects jurisdictions that comply with detainers from being sued, while allowing victims of crime to sue jurisdictions that refuse to comply and subsequently release criminal aliens onto the streets. • The provisions of the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act are also contained in the Davis-Oliver Act (H.R. 2431), a comprehensive immigration enforcement bill that was approved by the House Judiciary Committee earlier this year.
10.03.2017	This evening, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, also known as Micah’s Law. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement: “Now that scientific research has shown that unborn children at 20 weeks are capable of feeling pain, we can no longer ignore the suffering brought on by late-term abortions. I am pleased that the House of Representatives has responded to protect these vulnerable children from the violence of abortion. This bill reflects the latest information from the scientific community, and demonstrates compassion for the unborn and a commitment to promoting life. “I commend my colleague, House Judiciary Committee member Trent Franks, for his relentless advocacy on behalf of the unborn, and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to pass H.R. 36 quickly so the President can sign it into law.” Background: Science has shown that unborn children of 20 weeks are capable of feeling pain. Yet thousands of these babies are killed each year in violent late-term abortions. To protect these unborn children from this horrific procedure, Congressman Trent Franks (R-Ariz) has introduced H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act of 2017. H.R. 36 restricts abortions 20 weeks or more after fertilization. Specifically, this bill establishes criminal penalties for any person who performs or attempts an abortion on a fetus after the 20-week mark. In addition, this bill provides exceptions to save the life of the mother, and in the case of rape or incest. Click here to watch Goodlatte's floor speech in support of H.R. 36.
10.02.2017	To provide American farmers with access to a legal, stable supply of workers, the AG Act creates a new H-2C guestworker program designed to meet the needs of the diverse agriculture industry. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today unveiled a bill to create a new, workable agricultural guestworker program for America’s farmers and ranchers. The Agricultural Guestworker Act, or the AG Act, replaces the outdated and broken H-2A guestworker program with a reliable, efficient, and fair program and will be marked up by the House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, October 4, 2017. The H-2A program is widely known to be expensive, time-consuming, and flawed. Each year, employers using the H-2A program have to comply with a lengthy labor certification process that is slow and plagued with red tape. As a result of complying with H-2A regulations, employers using the program almost always find themselves at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. To provide American farmers with access to a legal, stable supply of workers, the AG Act creates a new H-2C guestworker program designed to meet the needs of the diverse agriculture industry. Under the bill, the guestworker program is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and covers year-round employers, like dairies, aquaculture operations, food processors, and others. Further, the AG Act allows experienced unauthorized agricultural workers to continue working in agriculture and provides more flexibility to American farmers with respect to housing, transportation, and touchback periods. For a full summary of the AG Act, click here and for bill text click here. Goodlatte said the following on the AG Act: “For far too long, the broken H-2A guestworker program has buried American farmers in red tape and excessive costs without delivering access to a stable and reliable workforce. It’s clear that the current program is outdated and broken for American farmers, and it’s well past the time to replace it with a reliable, efficient, and fair program that provides American farmers access to a legal, stable supply of workers, both in the short- and long-term, for seasonal as well as year-round work. “The AG Act replaces the flawed H-2A program with a new, flexible, and market-driven guestworker program that is designed to meet the needs of the diverse agriculture industry when not enough American workers can be found. The new program is to be operated by the USDA, an agency that clearly understands the unique needs of America’s farm and ranch operations and the importance of getting perishable agricultural commodities to the marketplace in an efficient manner, and expands the guestworker program to year-round agricultural employers. I thank the agriculture community for the input they provided on this legislation and look forward to bringing it up in the House Judiciary Committee this week.” To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work to improve our nation’s immigration laws, click here.
10.02.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the tragic attack in Las Vegas: “The events that transpired overnight in Las Vegas are heartbreaking. May God bless our friends in Las Vegas and bring healing to them in this difficult time. My prayers are with the victims of this horrific attack and their families as well as those who were injured. I thank the local, state, and federal law enforcement officials and first responders who were on the scene in the moments after the attack for their quick action and continued work as this investigation unfolds. There is still much to learn about what happened, and I will monitor any new information coming out of the investigation.”
09.27.2017	Earlier today, congressional leaders unveiled a Unified Framework for Fixing our Broken Tax Code, which was developed by the Trump Administration, the House Committee on Ways and Means, and the Senate Committee on Finance. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement: “It’s been 30 years since the last major tax code overhaul. In that time the tax code as we know it has only grown more complex and unfair. Congress has the opportunity to create a tax system that works for the American people, and it’s important that we act now. The tax reform framework unveiled today is a positive step forward in getting tax reform signed into law that lowers rates for individuals and families and helps level the playing field for American businesses. I look forward to reviewing the legislative text produced by the House Ways and Means Committee as this process continues. We must provide tax relief that creates a simpler, fairer tax code, allows hardworking families to keep more of their money, and encourages businesses to invest in the United States.” More information on the framework can be found at fairandsimple.gop.
09.27.2017	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) met with Department of State Secretary Rex Tillerson and Department of Homeland Security Acting Secretary Elaine Duke regarding the Trump Administration’s refugee ceiling for Fiscal Year 2018. Goodlatte issued the statement below on today’s meeting and the Trump Administration’s plans to set the refugee ceiling at 45,000 for the coming year: “For generations, the United States has been a safe haven for those around the world fleeing persecution in their home countries. The Trump Administration’s refugee ceiling for the coming year maintains our nation’s generosity toward those in need, and importantly, ensures limited resources are used wisely and our citizens are protected in light of ongoing terrorist threats. Administration officials have indicated that many immigration officers processing refugee applications have been diverted to handle the large asylum backlog that occurred under the Obama Administration. The Trump Administration is acting responsibly to continue both of these humanitarian programs by reducing the asylum backlog and also committing itself to resettle tens of thousands of refugees in the United States. “While I welcome the Trump Administration’s plans for refugee resettlement for the coming year, it is imperative that Congress reform our nation’s refugee program by passing the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act. This bill provides tools to curb fraud, strengthen national security, and enhance public safety. I urge the House and Senate to take up this bill and send it to the President’s desk so that our nation’s generosity toward refugees continues and bad actors are prevented from gaming the system.” Background: In June, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 2826). This bill, authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Raúl Labrador and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. A summary of the bill can be found here.
09.26.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Judiciary Committee Republicans today renewed the House Judiciary Committee’s request for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate unaddressed matters that appear to be outside the scope of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Judiciary Committee Republicans today renewed the House Judiciary Committee’s request for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate unaddressed matters that appear to be outside the scope of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. In July, Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein calling for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate unaddressed matters, some connected to the 2016 election and others, including many actions taken by Obama Administration officials like former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI Director James Comey, and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Given the recent revelation that former FBI Director Comey had prepared a statement ending the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton before interviewing at least 17 key witnesses, including the former Secretary herself, Chairman Goodlatte and Judiciary Republican Members today renewed the Committee’s request for a second special counsel to address this matter and the others outlined in the previous letter. Full text of today’s letter is available here and below. September 26, 2017 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein: We write to renew this Committee’s recent call for a second special counsel, to investigate matters which may be outside the scope of Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation. Such a step is even more critical given the recent revelation that former FBI Director James Comey had prepared a statement ending the investigation into former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, before interviewing at least 17 key witnesses, including the former Secretary herself. At least one former career FBI supervisor has characterized this action as “so far out of bounds it’s not even in the stadium,” and “clearly communicating to [FBI executive staff] where the investigation was going to go.” Among those witnesses the FBI failed to interview prior to the Director’s preparation of his statement were Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson, both of whom were close Clinton aides with extensive knowledge of the facts surrounding the establishment of a private email server. Last year, this Committee inquired repeatedly of the Justice Department about the facts surrounding Ms. Mills’ and Ms. Samuelson’s involvement. Our inquiries were largely ignored. Recently, we wrote to you to request responses to those and other unanswered questions pertaining to the Clinton investigation. We have not received a response. However, as the most recent Comey revelations make clear, ignoring this problem will not make it go away. As we pointed out at the time, both Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson received immunity for their cooperation in the Clinton investigation, but were nevertheless permitted to sit in on the interview of Secretary Clinton. That, coupled with the revelation that the Director had already drafted an exoneration statement, strongly suggests that the interview was a mere formality, and that the Director had already decided the case would be closed. During our FBI Oversight hearing last year, Congressman John Ratcliffe questioned the Director about this very issue. In part, that exchange was as follows: Mr. RATCLIFFE. Director, did you make the decision not to recommend criminal charges relating to classified information before or after Hillary Clinton was interviewed by the FBI on July the 2nd? Mr. COMEY. After. Mr. RATCLIFFE. Okay. Then I am going to need your help in trying to understand how that is possible. I think there are a lot of prosecutors or former prosecutors that are shaking our heads at how that could be the case. Because if there was ever any real possibility that Hillary Clinton might be charged for something that she admitted to on July the 2nd, why would two of the central witnesses in a potential prosecution against her be allowed to sit in the same room to hear the testimony? Why, indeed. Perhaps it was because, just as the Comey revelation suggests, the decision had already been made – prior to the interview of Secretary Clinton, Ms. Mills, Ms. Samuelson, or any of the other 14 potential witnesses – that Secretary Clinton would not be charged with any crimes for her conduct. President Obama had indicated as much, by stating publicly at the time that although Secretary Clinton showed “carelessness” in conducting government business on a private server, she had no intent to endanger national security. Of course, Secretary Clinton’s supposed lack of “intent to harm national security” is a red herring, since the law merely requires the government to show “gross negligence.” Moreover, we note that not only did the former Director end the investigation prematurely -- and potentially at the direction, tacit or otherwise, of President Obama -- but he did so while declining to record the interviews of former Secretary Clinton or any of her close associates, as provided for by DOJ policy. The policy states: This policy establishes a presumption that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), and the United States Marshals Service (USMS) will electronically record statements made by individuals in their custody. This policy also encourages agents and prosecutors to consider electronic recording in investigative or other circumstances where the presumption does not apply. The policy encourages agents and prosecutors to consult with each other in such circumstances. Despite this, the DOJ and FBI declined to exercise their discretion to record the interview of former Secretary Clinton. This is truly inexplicable, given that the case was of keen national interest and importance, and involved a former Secretary of State and candidate for President of the United States who was accused of violating the Espionage Act. It only reinforces the sense that our nation’s top law enforcement officials conspired to sweep the Clinton “matter” under the rug, and that there is, truly, one system for the powerful and politically well-connected, and another for everyone else. In this case, it appears that Director Comey and other senior Justice Department and government officials may have pre-judged the “matter” before all the facts were known, thereby ensuring former Secretary Clinton would not be charged for her criminal activity. We implore you to name a second special counsel, to investigate this and other matters related to the 2016 election, including the conduct of the Justice Department regarding the investigation into Secretary Clinton’s private email server. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Louie Gohmert Steve King Lamar Smith Raúl Labrador Matt Gaetz Doug Collins Andy Biggs Jim Jordan Martha Roby Mike Johnson John Ratcliffe Blake Farenthold John Rutherford
09.22.2017	There is no quick and easy solution to wiping out this epidemic. It requires states, the federal government, and community groups to work together to combat drug abuse, with enforcement, prevention, education, and treatment as key components. I will continue to work with folks in Sixth District communities as well as lawmakers in Congress to advance solutions that will provide more tools to help addicts reclaim and rebuild their lives, stop drug traffickers, and make our communities safer. Our neighbors, friends, and loved ones n share: f t On Thursday, the Office of National Drug Control Policy announced 719 grants to community coalitions across the country through the Drug-Free Communities (DFC) Support Program. The DFC is the nation’s leading effort to mobilize communities to prevent youth substance use. Five Sixth District entities were FY2017 continuation grant award recipients. Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement congratulating Sixth District recipients of these grants: “Opioid addiction knows no boundaries, and our children are among some of the most vulnerable. Lives have been taken far too early and bright futures wasted away. Today’s drug epidemic calls for action at all levels of government and civic life to protect our citizens. I am pleased that several entities in the Sixth District have been awarded federal grants through the Drug-Free Communities Support Program to aid their work to prevent youth substance use. Through this program they will be able to continue building the infrastructure and relationships needed to take action locally. “There is no quick and easy solution to wiping out this epidemic. It requires states, the federal government, and community groups to work together to combat drug abuse, with enforcement, prevention, education, and treatment as key components. I will continue to work with folks in Sixth District communities as well as lawmakers in Congress to advance solutions that will provide more tools to help addicts reclaim and rebuild their lives, stop drug traffickers, and make our communities safer. Our neighbors, friends, and loved ones need our help.” Sixth District FY2017 Continuation Grant Award Recipients • Rockbridge Area Community Services: Rockbridge Area Prevention Coalition • James Madison University: Futuro Latino Drug-Free Communities • City of Waynesboro: Greater Augusta Prevention Partners (GAPP) Coalition • Page Alliance for Community Action • Blue Ridge Behavioral Health Care: Roanoke Prevention Alliance, Inc.
09.22.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.) today wrote to FBI Director Christopher Wray and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Acting Director Thomas Homan requesting information on how their agencies are combating violent transnational gangs like MS-13 in the Commonwealth of Virginia. According to the Department of Justice, MS-13, a transnational gang that is notoriously violent, has 10,000 members inside the United States and now engages in gang activities in at least 40 states and the District of Columbia. Recently, Virginia and the Washington, D.C. metro area have been particularly hard-hit by MS-13 violence. Both Chairman Goodlatte and Congresswoman Comstock’s districts have been affected by gang violence and gang murders. In their letter to Director Wray and Acting Director Homan, Chairman Goodlatte and Congresswoman Comstock note the recent House passage of their bill that provides law enforcement more tools to combat transnational gangs, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act, and ask if there are further legislative remedies needed. Additionally, they call on the FBI and ICE to provide updates on how their agencies are working with state and local agencies to combat gang violence and what the agencies are doing independently to address this public safety problem. Full text of today’s letter is available here and below. September 22, 2017 The Honorable Christopher Wray Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20535 The Honorable Thomas D. Homan Acting Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 500 12th Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20536 Dear Director Wray and Acting Director Homan: With the recent passage of H.R. 3697, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act, in the House of Representatives on September 14, we write to you today to request information regarding and offer assistance to the ongoing efforts to combat MS-13 and other transnational criminal enterprises and gangs, which are gaining an ever-growing foothold in communities nationwide. As you are both of course aware, eradication of MS-13 is a high priority of President Trump. We are encouraged by the recent successes of joint federal investigations such as Operation Matador in New York as well as Homeland Security Investigations’ ongoing Operation Community Shield. The accomplishments of those operations are a testament of federal, state, and local law enforcement cooperation and coordination at its finest. We look forward to the continued success of this model program in New York and throughout the country. While the violence and rash of criminal activity at the hands of MS-13 may be starting to abate in New York, elsewhere in the United States, these criminal enterprises continue to thrive and commit barbaric criminal acts with seeming impunity. In the shadow of our nation’s capital, our home state of Virginia has been witness to horrific violent crimes linked to this gang. In March in Bedford County, Virginia, 17-year-old Raymond Wood of Lynchburg, Virginia was killed by suspected members of MS-13. Even more troubling is that one of the suspects had an outstanding warrant in connection with a murder in Montgomery County, Maryland. Additionally, Northern Virginia was shocked by the tragic murder of 15-year-old Damaris A. Reyes Rivas whose remains were found on February 11, 2017 after being reported missing in December. It was reported that her murder was filmed as video proof of the murder which was then sent back to MS-13 leaders in El Salvador. This murder was apparent revenge for Reyes Rivas’ alleged involvement in another MS-13 murder and demonstrates the endemic nature of the gang threat in our communities nationwide. Even more recently, news outlets reported that Douglas Alexander Herrera-Hernandez, an MS-13 gang member known by the gang moniker “Terror”, was arrested in Virginia. Reports indicate that Herrera-Hernandez is currently charged with two murders in Texas, including that of a 16-year-old who witnessed MS-13 crimes. It is also reported that Herrera-Hernandez is present in the United States illegally. These are but three examples and represent a small sampling of the pervasiveness of MS-13 activity in the United States. There are examples across this country that continue to underscore the deep roots that this gang has developed in the United States. Recently testifying in another committee in the House of Representatives, FBI Assistant Director in Charge, William F. Sweeney, Jr., estimated that there could be as many as 10,000 members of MS-13 living in the United States. This number does not include membership within other transnational criminal gangs such as 18th Street. We believe it is necessary for law enforcement to utilize all tools at its disposal, while affirming our strong commitments to the rule of law. It is incumbent upon Congress to provide sufficient tools to ensure that law enforcement can better target, apprehend, prosecute, and, where appropriate, deport violent criminals from the United States. To that end, we would welcome any legislative proposals you would recommend to give the Federal Bureau of Investigation and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement the additional tools necessary to carry out this critical mission. In the interim, we would respectfully request an update on how the FBI and ICE are working with state and local law enforcement to combat the crisis of transnational criminal gangs in our communities. We are particularly interested in the use of task force officers working within FBI and ICE as well as detailed agents working directly with state and local law enforcement to further develop those partnerships. In addition, please provide an update on what your respective agencies are currently doing to combat transnational criminal gang activity apart from the creation and staffing of task forces. Finally, please provide any information you have regarding the extent to which transnational criminal gangs have taken advantage of the influx of unaccompanied alien minors who are entering this country and are being released into communities nationwide for recruitment and other gang purposes. We look forward to opening a dialogue with you on this matter. Transnational criminal gangs pose a threat that can no longer be ignored. These murders are reprehensible and demand an immediate and decisive response. We must attack this problem from both the criminal justice and immigration standpoints to ensure that such vicious crimes are not repeated. Please respond to this letter by October 16, 2017. If you have any questions about this letter, please contact Joseph Edlow, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, House Judiciary Committee, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee Barbara Comstock Member of Congress
09.18.2017	Dr. Ron Carrier played a significant role in making James Madison University the institution that it is today. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the passing of Dr. Ronald E. Carrier, the fourth president of James Madison University: “Dr. Ron Carrier played a significant role in making James Madison University the institution that it is today. His legacy and vision lives on throughout campus and beyond. I’m honored to have known Dr. Carrier and worked with him closely over the years. My prayers are with his family and the entire JMU community as they mourn his passing.”
09.17.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte has issued the following statement on the 230th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution: "On September 17, 1787, after months of debate on how best to shape our new nation, the Founding Fathers met in Independence Hall to sign the Constitution of the United States. "They had no idea the technological and social advances that would happen in the centuries to come. They never rode in a Model T—let alone on an airplane. Many of them never dreamed of the communications possibilities that would emerge through the telegraph, the telephone, and eventually the internet. Yet the principles they enshrined in the Constitution continue to guide our nation today. "The Constitution is the gold standard for governments across the world. Why? Because it is based on the notion of individual freedom. It promises individual liberty for ‘We the People,’ and it promises to protect this liberty through a separation of powers. "As a Member of Congress and Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I am constantly reminded of the Constitution’s importance and the role it plays in the work I do. I hope everyone has an opportunity today to pause and reflect on our Constitution, and the protections it continues to provide to guard our God-given rights as Americans." Click here to watch the full video.
09.15.2017	Today’s announcement by Anthem is good news in the short term for Virginians. share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement regarding the announcement that Anthem has filed to revise its Individual health plan offerings for 2018 to include both on-and-off exchange Individual plans in 68 cities and counties in Virginia: “Today’s announcement by Anthem is good news in the short term for Virginians. However, the insurance exchanges created by Obamacare are collapsing. From the very beginning, many have said, I included, that this law is simply unworkable and the systems put into place by it will not adequately serve American families. Now, those chickens have come home to roost. “The House has already acted on legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare, and I urge the Senate to truly come to the table to keep the process going and work towards a solution. Now more than ever it is important that Congress deliver affordable health insurance options to the American people and put patients before big government mandates.”
09.14.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed by a vote of 233-175 the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act (H.R. 3697). This bill, introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), Congressman Peter King (R-N.Y.), Congressman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) combats gang violence by criminal aliens and enhances public safety. Goodlatte and Comstock praised today’s passage of the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act in the statements below. Chairman Goodlatte: “Gang violence is a threat to communities across our nation and we must provide law enforcement more tools to combat this public safety problem. Federal authorities have found that members of violent transnational gangs, like MS-13, are largely foreign born nationals. We must prevent our nation’s immigration system from being exploited by dangerous gang members seeking to bring crime and illicit activity into our neighborhoods. The Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act makes it clear that criminal alien gang members are not eligible to come to the United States and gives law enforcement tools to keep them off our streets. I applaud the House for passing this targeted bill to protect our communities and call on the Senate to pass it, as well as the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law, without delay.” Congresswoman Comstock: “I am pleased the House passed the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act, which I introduced, by a bipartisan vote today. The legislation will provide additional tools to our law enforcement to combat the transnational MS-13 street gang. It will ensure that when ICE positively identifies a known alien gang member, they may act immediately. This legislation identifies gang membership and participation in gang activity as grounds for inadmissibility and removability from the country. In Northern Virginia there have been at least eight brutal murders tied to the transnational MS-13 gang since last November. The Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force believes that 3-4,000 MS-13 gang members are in our region and, at a town festival in Herndon earlier this year, the gang task force estimated 200-300 suspected gang members were milling about among families attending the community event. This legislation will make our communities safer by helping to rid gang members from our communities. “I have also introduced H.R. 3249, the Project Safe Neighborhoods Grant Program Authorization Act, which would establish a grant program to provide resources to state and local entities to curb the rise in gang activity and violence. This legislation authorizes $70 million annually for FY2018 through FY2022. Twenty percent of the authorized $70 million will go directly to already-established gang task forces, like the Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force, who are experiencing elevated transnational gang activity from gangs such as MS-13. I am working with my colleagues to move this legislation as well.” Background: U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has found that membership of violent transnational gangs is comprised largely of foreign-born nationals. In Fiscal Year 2016, over 2,000 criminal aliens removed by ICE were classified as suspected or confirmed gang members. And from Fiscal Years 2016 through 2017, ICE Homeland Security Investigations agents made over 8,000 gang-related criminal arrests, leading to over 2,600 convictions. According to the Department of Justice, MS-13, a transnational gang that is notoriously violent and comprised of members mostly from Central America, has 10,000 members inside the United States and 40,000 members worldwide. MS-13 originated in Los Angeles in the 1980s and now engages in gang activities in at least 40 states and the District of Columbia. Communities in Boston, New York, Virginia, and the Washington, D.C. metro area have been particularly hard-hit by MS-13 violence. Currently, it is not possible to deport gang members until they are convicted of an independent crime. In order to protect Americans from these violent gangs, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act ensures that alien gang members are kept off our streets by barring them from coming to the United States and detaining and removing them if they are criminal gang members or participate in gang activity. Additionally, the bill ensures that criminal alien gang members are not eligible for immigration benefits, such as asylum, special immigrant juvenile status, and temporary protected status, which are reserved for those around the world most in need of protection.
09.08.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, recently signed on as a cosponsor of H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, introduced by Congressman Richard Hudson (R-NC). This bipartisan legislation falls under the jurisdiction of the House Judiciary Committee. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “Law-abiding citizens should not forfeit their Second Amendment rights simply by traveling to another state. The premise of H.R. 38 is simple – if you are eligible to carry a concealed firearm in your state of residence, you should be able to carry a concealed firearm in another state that allows individuals to do so. This bill does not impede upon or change the authority of state and local governments to decide where citizens may or may not carry firearms. Protecting our constitutional rights is the greatest responsibility of any Member of Congress, and this includes protecting the right of law-abiding citizens to legally carry firearms to ensure safety for themselves or their family. I look forward to working toward the passage of H.R. 38 in the House.” Background: H.R. 38 amends the federal criminal code to allow a qualified individual to carry a concealed handgun into or possess a concealed handgun in another state that allows individuals to carry concealed firearms. A qualified individual must: (1) be eligible to possess, transport, or receive a firearm under federal law; (2) carry a valid photo identification document; and (3) carry a valid concealed carry permit issued by, or be eligible to carry a concealed firearm in, his or her state of residence.
09.08.2017	Congresswoman Barbara Comstock (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congressman Peter King (R-N.Y.), and Congressman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) today introduced the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act (H.R. 3697) to combat gang violence by criminal aliens and enhance public safety. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has found that membership of violent transnational gangs is comprised largely of foreign-born nationals. In order to protect Americans from these violent gangs, the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act ensures that alien gang members are kept off our streets by barring them from coming to the United States and detaining and removing them if they are criminal gang members or participate in gang activity. Additionally, the bill ensures that criminal alien gang members are not eligible for immigration benefits, such as asylum, special immigrant juvenile status, and temporary protected status, which are reserved for those around the world most in need of protection. Goodlatte and Comstock issued the statements below on today’s introduction of the Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe. We must ensure our nation’s immigration laws are not exploited by dangerous gang members, like MS-13, seeking to bring crime and illicit activity to our communities. The Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act makes it clear that criminal alien gang members are not eligible to come to the United States and ensures that they are kept off our streets. I thank Representatives Comstock, King, and Labrador for introducing this targeted, common sense bill to protect our communities and look forward to its consideration on the House floor next week.” Congresswoman Comstock: “In Northern Virginia there have been at least eight brutal murders tied to the transnational MS-13 gang since last November. That is unacceptable, and this legislation will help get these violent gang members off our streets. MS-13 preys upon and intimidates those who have come to our country to seek a better life. The Criminal Alien Gang Member Removal Act will give important tools to law enforcement like the Northern Virginia Regional Gang Task Force so that they can effectively do their jobs to deport alien gang members. I look forward to working with my colleagues to see this important legislation passed so we are safer as a community, Commonwealth, and nation.” To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work to improve our nation’s immigration laws, click here.
09.07.2017	This evening, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Congressman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) amendment to H.R. 3354, the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, by a vote of 214-197. He was joined by Congressmen G.T. Thompson (R-Pa.), Bill Shuster (R-Ohio), and Scott Perry (R-Pa.) in introducing this amendment. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement on passage of the amendment: “Congress intended that implementation of the Clean Water Act be a collaborative approach between the states and federal government. Unfortunately, that hasn’t been the case. Through policies passed down by the EPA under the previous Administration, every state in the watershed has basically been given an ultimatum – either the state does exactly what the EPA says, or it faces the threat of an EPA takeover of its water quality programs. “My amendment stops the EPA from hijacking states’ water quality strategies. It removes the ability of the EPA to take retaliatory or ‘backstop’ actions against the six states located in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed if they do not meet EPA mandated goals. The Chesapeake Bay is a national treasure, and I support efforts to see it restored. But in order to achieve this goal, the states and the EPA must work together. The EPA cannot be allowed to railroad the states and micromanage the process. I am pleased that the House passed this amendment to stop this federal power grab.” Goodlatte spoke on the House floor in support of his amendment. Click here to watch.
09.05.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on President Trump’s decision to end former President Obama’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “Throughout President Obama’s time in office, he used his ‘pen and phone’ to overstep his authority and unilaterally rewrite our nation’s laws. Individuals who were brought to the U.S. illegally by their parents as children are in a very difficult position, but no president has the authority to change the law on his own terms. President Obama’s refusal to enforce our immigration laws and decision to unilaterally create immigration programs encouraged more illegal immigration and contributed to the surge of unaccompanied minors and families seeking to enter the U.S. illegally. His actions were wholly unconstitutional and compromised the integrity of the immigration system and the rule of law. “President Trump has done the right thing by ending this unlawfully-contrived program. In addition to working on immigration enforcement legislation, per the President’s request, I stand ready to work with the Trump Administration and my colleagues in Congress to address this problem the right way: through reasonable legislation passed by Congress, rather than by executive fiat.”
09.01.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that the Shenandoah Valley Regional Airport has been awarded a $737,412 federal grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation for taxiway rehabilitation. The grant will be utilized for paving the taxiway and making extensive maintenance repairs to the runway. Congressman Bob Goodlatte: “Ensuring the safety of passengers and quality service for customers is the critical mission of any airport. I am pleased that the Shenandoah Valley Regional Airport has won a competitive grant from the Department of Transportation to rehabilitate the airport’s taxiway and runway. I congratulate the Airport Commission on this success. Given today’s budgetary constraints, it is important that federal funds be used for projects that will benefit taxpayers. I know these funds are an important priority for Shenandoah Valley Regional Airport’s efforts to provide quality commercial flight service to Valley residents and maintain our local transportation infrastructure.” Gerald Garber, Chairman of the Airport Commission: “Securing these funds will allow the Airport Commission to move forward with this important infrastructure project to rehabilitate and maintain airfield pavements at SHD. We appreciate Congressman Goodlatte’s assistance and continued support of the Shenandoah Valley Regional Airport in its critical role supporting business, commerce, and economic development in the Shenandoah Valley.”
08.27.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement on the passing of former delegate Lacey E. Putney on Saturday: “Virginia has lost one of the great ones. Anyone who worked with Lacey knew that he was a true force. We represented many of the same communities over the years, and I was always impressed by his passion for serving his fellow Virginians. Lacey was a kind man and loyal to his Big Island roots. I am honored to have called him a friend. My prayers are with Carmela and his family during this difficult time. While he may be gone from this earth, there is no doubt that his legacy of service will live on.”
08.22.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on President Trump’s announcement last night on a new strategy for South Asia: “Saying that the situation in Afghanistan is complex is an understatement. Nevertheless, the United States must continue to defend our interests from ongoing terrorist threats. Last night, President Trump took a realistic look at the situation in the region and put forth a strong plan to root out terrorist threats in Afghanistan, including announcing that he will hold other nations in South Asia accountable for their actions, or inactions, as we battle violent Islamist extremism. I will continue to carefully monitor this strategy as it is implemented by our generals on the ground. I have the utmost faith and confidence in America’s military leaders and the men and women of the Armed Forces as they work to defeat terrorism and defend the United States.”
08.22.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman, today issued the following statement in advance of President Trump’s visit to the Border Patrol station in Yuma, Arizona: “President Trump has demonstrated his commitment to restoring the rule of law by directing his Administration to enforce our nation’s immigration laws. The President’s strong action has caused illegal immigration to drop significantly at the U.S.-Mexico border. In addition to this progress, we also need to improve our nation’s immigration laws and provide more tools to further reduce illegal immigration, drug trafficking, and human smuggling. “The House of Representatives recently passed the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law. These bills combat dangerous sanctuary policies that allow criminals to remain on our streets and punish felons who repeatedly enter the U.S. illegally, respectively. Both of these bills would dramatically improve public safety, and I call on the Senate again to pass them without delay. “The House Judiciary Committee has also approved a number of bills to strengthen the enforcement of our immigration laws within the interior of the United States, reform the refugee and asylum programs, and ensure unaccompanied minors who make the dangerous journey to the U.S. are safely returned home. The House must pass all of these bills to provide the Trump Administration the tools needed to secure the border and enforce our immigration laws, and to ensure that future administrations do not ignore immigration enforcement laws.” Background: To date, the House Judiciary Committee has approved four bills to improve the United States’ immigration system: • The Davis-Oliver Act (H.R. 2431) improves the enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws to enhance public safety. • The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 2826) reforms the refugee program and provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities. • The Protection of Children Act (H.R. 495) ensures that unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. • The Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act (H.R. 391) reforms our nation’s asylum laws to prevent fraud and abuse in the system and ensures that asylum is reserved for those truly fleeing persecution in their home countries. The House of Representatives has also approved the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) and Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004), both of which are components of the Davis-Oliver Act, to strengthen public safety by combating dangerous sanctuary policies that shield criminals from immigration enforcement and by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work to improve our nation’s immigration laws, click here.
08.19.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement upon the signing of the Rapid DNA Act of 2017 (H.R. 510) into law: “I am extremely proud to see the bipartisan Rapid DNA Act, a product of the House Judiciary Committee, signed into law. While once taking days or weeks, DNA testing can now be completed in a matter of hours. However, a decades-old law prevents the use of Rapid DNA technology in many circumstances, which has created a growing backlog. The Rapid DNA Act remedies this problem so that police stations across the United States can use Rapid DNA technology to quickly identify violent suspects and free the innocent. “I also want to thank Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner for his years of leadership on this important issue which is a significant component of the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing efforts on criminal justice reform." Background: The bipartisan Rapid DNA Act, authored by House Judiciary Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), updates current law to allow Rapid DNA analysis machines to be used at local police stations. Rapid DNA technology expedites DNA analysis for suspect identification purposes and allows local law enforcement to accurately identify a suspect in 90 minutes. Unfortunately, current law – which was passed in the mid-90’s before the advent of Rapid DNA technology – is outdated and requires DNA samples to be shipped off to a state lab for analysis and communication with the database known as the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). This results in delays of weeks in getting information that can be obtained in less than two hours with Rapid DNA machines. This unnecessary delay has created huge backlogs that impact all crime investigations using forensics, not just forensics used for identification purposes.
08.18.2017	Following a letter sent by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee Chairman Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) requesting that multiple federal agencies repudiate Operation Choke Point, the Department of Justice has announced that it has formally ended this Obama-era program. The Obama Administration initiated Operation Choke Point to discourage financial institutions from offering services to businesses that the Administration opposed—including firearms dealers. Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman Hensarling, Regulatory Reform Subcommittee Chairman Marino, Financial Institutions Subcommittee Chairman Luetkemeyer, and IP Subcommittee Chairman Issa praised the Justice Department’s decision in the joint statement below. “We applaud the Trump Justice Department for decisively ending Operation Choke Point. The Obama Administration created this ill-advised program to suffocate legitimate businesses to which it was ideologically opposed by intimidating financial institutions into denying banking services to those businesses. Targeted industries, such as firearms dealers, were presumed guilty by the Obama Justice Department until proven innocent, and many businesses are still facing the repercussions of this misguided program. This is no way for law enforcement to operate and runs counter to principles enshrined in our Constitution. By ending Operation Choke Point, the Trump Justice Department has restored the Department’s responsibility to pursue lawbreakers, not legitimate businesses.”
08.14.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte announced today that he will host a Vietnam Veterans Commemoration on Thursday, August 31, in Lexington to honor the men and women who served our country during the Vietnam Era: “On March 29, 1973, the last combat troops were withdrawn from Vietnam. Tragically, when they returned to the United States, these veterans, like many who returned earlier in the war, were greeted with a cold, and at times hostile, reception. Their stories remind us that most returning veterans were not even acknowledged for their sacrifice. While the nation has worked to correct this terrible mistake over the last few decades, there is more we can all do to honor Vietnam veterans. “In commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War, I am honored to host a Vietnam Veterans Commemoration to recognize, honor, and thank Vietnam veterans for their service and sacrifice. My staff will also be on hand assist veterans who may be having trouble dealing with the Department of Veterans Affairs or other federal agencies. If you, or a veteran you know, would like to be recognized, I encourage you to register online or call my Staunton office. Many brave men and women in the Sixth District selflessly served our country during this time, and I look forward to this special event.” Logistics/Registration Thursday, August 31, at 4:30PM Registration begins at 4PM Lexington National Guard Armory (behind Rockbridge County High School) 95 Hines Lane Lexington, Virginia 24450 Vietnam veterans are asked to register in advance by visiting Goodlatte.House.Gov/VietnamVeterans. For questions, or to register by phone, please call Congressman Goodlatte’s office at 540-885-3861. Additional Information The Vietnam Veterans Commemoration will honor veterans who served during the Vietnam Era from November 1, 1955 to May 15, 1975. Veterans wishing to participate in the commemoration must be residents of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia. All Vietnam veterans in attendance will receive a pin to honor their service. Constituent service staff will also be on hand to assist veterans with issues they may have with the Department of Veterans Affairs or other federal agencies. Family members and friends of Vietnam veterans are invited to attend; however, please understand that seating for veterans or those with disabilities will be prioritized. Congressman Goodlatte is a participant in the United States of America Vietnam War Commemorative Partner Program.
08.12.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement condemning the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia: “I am deeply saddened and revolted by the hate and violence taking place in Charlottesville, and am praying for the victim killed and others injured. The racist and anti-Semitic views embraced by white supremacists have no place in our nation and do not reflect core American values of equality and religious freedom. We are all created in the image of God, and I strongly condemn such detestable views against fellow human beings. I thank the many brave law enforcement officers responding to the violence today. I am also extremely saddened to hear that two were killed in a Virginia State Police helicopter crash in the Charlottesville area this afternoon. My prayers are with their families and the law enforcement community as they mourn this loss."
08.11.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the announcement from President Trump declaring the opioid crisis as a national emergency: “The opioid epidemic currently plaguing the United States is destroying lives, families, and communities across the United States and it shows no signs of stopping. We have all heard the grim statistics: 91 Americans die each day from an opioid overdose. That is more than 33,000 a year. These people are our neighbors, friends, and loved ones and need our help. “While Congress has taken action to combat the opioid epidemic through the historic Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, it’s clear that we need more tools to combat this ever-growing problem. I commend President Trump for declaring the opioid crisis as a national emergency. This will bring much needed public awareness to this epidemic. Additionally, the House Judiciary Committee will continue to review our nation’s laws to determine if more resources are needed to combat the opioid crisis.” Background: • In July 2016, Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524). It strengthens the enforcement of our nation’s drug laws, provides tools to combat addiction, offers appropriate treatment and care to addicts so that they can begin to reclaim and rebuild their lives, and leverages existing programs to accomplish these goals. • Building on the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017 (H.R. 2851) in July 2017. This bill updates current law to provide swifter action to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs, and gives law enforcement effective tools to help keep our communities safe.
08.10.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) completed a two-day “Ag Tour” in the Shenandoah Valley on Monday and Tuesday to hear from local farmers and producers about federal policies impacting their businesses as well as the upcoming reauthorization of the Farm Bill, which governs an array of agricultural and food programs. Congressman Goodlatte is the former Chair of the House Committee on Agriculture and currently serves as Chair of the House Judiciary Committee. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “Agriculture is strong in the Sixth District. However, there are still some farm sectors suffering from low prices. After making several stops up and down the Shenandoah Valley, it’s easy to see why this is the largest industry in Virginia. Modern agriculture isn’t just a traditional farm. Today’s farmers and agribusinesses are innovating. Ingleside Dairy Farm is using new technology to transform the dairy industry, and Shamrock Farms is hard at work to package more nutritious products and extend the shelf life of their milk products. At Appalachian Woods they are taking old lumber and turning it into beautiful, new flooring. Brix and Columns Vineyards is tapping into the booming agritourism market and helping to prove that Virginia wine can rival any other. The produce for sale at the Shenandoah Valley Produce Auction is proof that local farmers take great pride in their work, and the crowds on hand are a testament to the quality as well. Valley Pike Farm is a great example of the next generation of farmers stepping up to the plate, but also a reminder of why we must continue to teach today’s youth about the importance of agriculture. Lastly, the meat processing plant at Baker Farms is representative of how today’s farmers are changing and growing to meet the demands of the market. “As I spoke with producers about farm policy, agriculture immigration, and the upcoming reauthorization of the Farm Bill, I learned more about which federal programs are working well and which need reforms, what regulations are stifling and which are common sense, and how the federal government can best encourage a robust farm economy. I look forward to taking this information back to Washington as we craft the policies impacting American farms and agribusinesses.” Roundup of Ag Tour Stops Ingleside Dairy Farm in Rockbridge County was the first farm in Virginia to use automated milking machines. Roughly 330 cows are milked each day. The automated machines allow the cows to come and go on their own time frame, keep track of the cow’s health and output, and helps ensure the cleanliness of the cows and the milk. Ingleside Dairy Farm is owned and operated by Charlie and Linda Leech and their children. Appalachian Woods, LLC in Stuarts Draft has been operated by Jonas Hochstetler and his family for 20 years. Appalachian Woods is a leading manufacturer of wide plank traditional and reclaimed hardwood flooring. They give wood that you see in old barns or buildings, like wormy chestnut and hard pine, new life. Shamrock Farms in Verona processes and packages thousands of units of milk and milk products each day. The plant has only been operating in Augusta County for a few years, but they are already expanding to make room for new production lines and more employees. Much of the milk they use at the plant is sourced from the region. Brix and Columns Vineyards is one of the newest vineyards in Rockingham County. In addition to growing vines, the Pence family recently opened a new tasting room and also host weddings/special events onsite. This new operation is part of the Shenandoah Valley Wine Trail, a network of vineyards that spans much of the Sixth District. The Shenandoah Valley Produce Auction in Dayton is the largest wholesale auction of its kind in Virginia. From watermelons and hanging flower baskets to some of the largest tomatoes you have ever seen, farmers bring their produce to the auction to sell to local farm stands, restaurants, and individuals. Jeff Heatwole manages the auction. Matt and Beth Lohr are continuing a family tradition of selling sweet corn at Valley Pike Farm in Broadway. While most folks know it for the annual sweet corn crop, the Lohrs also maintain several poultry houses, raise feeder cattle, and harvest crops, like barley and soybeans. They have big plans to continue expanding the farm as the next generation takes over. Steve Baker, owner of Baker Farms in Shenandoah County, has raised hogs his whole life, but knew he would need to do more to keep his farm operational in today’s economy. In 2015, Mr. Baker opened a small pork processing plant where they are currently processing nine hogs per week. Baker Farms sells pork to farmer’s markets, schools, and restaurants across Virginia as part of the growing farm-to-table movement.
08.09.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today in response to recent news reports that the Roanoke Amtrak project could be in jeopardy due to the President’s proposed budget: “Amtrak is coming to Roanoke. News reports or rumors stating that the project is potentially in jeopardy are unfounded. First and foremost, I have been assured this week by Amtrak officials that there is no change in plans to bring Amtrak service to Roanoke. Additionally, I cannot stress enough that the President’s budget proposal is just that – a proposal. It is important to remember that it is ultimately the responsibility of Congress, not the President, to set our nation’s final budget and appropriate funds. I look forward to welcoming Amtrak to Roanoke in late October.”
08.02.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on Senators Tom Cotton (R-Ark.) and David Perdue’s (R-Ga.) introduction of the updated Reforming American Immigration for a Strong Economy (RAISE) Act: “The United States has the most generous legal immigration system in the world. However, we only select between 5-12 percent of immigrants on the basis of the education and skills they can bring to America. Other countries, such as Canada, the U.K., and Australia, select over 60 percent of immigrants based on skills. In order to remain competitive in the global economy, this must change. “Senators Cotton and Perdue have taken the lead in the Senate by introducing bold legislation to reform our immigration system. The RAISE Act will prioritize individuals with skills needed in the United States. In the House, Representatives Lamar Smith and Darrell Issa have worked for years to achieve this objective. I applaud all of these individuals for their leadership on this important issue, and I look forward to working on a bicameral basis with these and other key players to enact fundamental reform this Congress.”
08.01.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Christopher Wray as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI): “I commend the Senate for confirming Christopher Wray as the next Director of the FBI. The FBI is the premier law enforcement agency in the world, and it is critical to have a director who holds the trust of the American people. Mr. Wray received overwhelming bipartisan support throughout his confirmation process in the U.S. Senate. He has a long and distinguished legal career, including serving as Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division under President George W. Bush and Assistant U.S. Attorney in Georgia. Mr. Wray’s public and private sector service make him extremely well suited to lead the FBI, and I congratulate him on his new role as Director of the FBI. I look forward to working with him.”
07.28.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the status of health care legislation: “While the House delivered on our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare, I am extremely disappointed that the Senate failed to act. For years, the majority of my constituents have told me that Obamacare does not work for them. I do not see last night’s events in the Senate as the end of this debate. Obamacare is failing, and Congress must act. I will keep working towards a solution to increase access to care and deliver affordable health insurance options.”
07.28.2017	This week, leaders of both the Senate and House Judiciary Committees called on the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission to work with the U.S. Trade Representative to make strong competition provisions a central part of upcoming trade negotiations. House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Ia.) encouraged the federal antitrust agencies to include a competition chapter in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to establish a high standard for competition chapters in future trade negotiations. The letter states, in part: “While it may be difficult to bridge substantive differences in antitrust law in the short-term, American companies should be guaranteed the same high standard of procedural rights before a foreign antitrust agency that foreign firms are afforded before the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States. Securing a foundational understanding with regard to non-discrimination, transparency, and due process among antitrust agencies as part of a trade negotiation will help to ensure that antitrust enforcement remains apolitical and based on sound antitrust principles,” the chairmen said in the letter to the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission." Goodlatte and Grassley asserted that including competition chapters in trade agreements is increasingly important as antitrust agencies are becoming more prevalent in other nations, many of which operate in a less transparent manner and harbor protectionist objectives. Upcoming NAFTA negotiations provide an ideal opportunity for the United States to demonstrate strong leadership in promoting competition and fairness through transparency and due process. To read the full text of the letter, click here or read below: July 24, 2017 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 The Honorable Maureen K. Ohlhausen Acting Chairman Federal Trade Commission 600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20580 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Acting Chairman Ohlhausen: We write you to express our support for including competition chapters, consistent with U.S. law, in all United States trade agreements, and to urge you to work with the U.S. Trade Representative on creating a model competition chapter. We believe that the inclusion of such chapters in our trade agreements is increasingly important given the proliferation of antitrust agencies around the world. It is critical that the United States demonstrate strong leadership in this area and set a global standard through its trade negotiations to promote nondiscriminatory and transparent antitrust proceedings that are grounded in economic analysis in support of consumer welfare and conducted in a manner that provides procedural fairness and due process. We understand that foreign jurisdictions frequently operate in an opaque manner to the detriment of U.S. companies doing business abroad. Moreover, these jurisdictions often have significant substantive differences in antitrust law, which can include protectionist objectives. These issues are aggravated by procedural deficiencies in certain foreign antitrust proceedings, including in foreign antitrust investigation and decision-making processes. While it may be difficult to bridge substantive differences in antitrust law in the short-term, American companies should be guaranteed the same high standard of procedural rights before a foreign antitrust agency that foreign firms are afforded before the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States. Securing a foundational understanding with regard to non-discrimination, transparency, and due process among antitrust agencies as part of a trade negotiation will help to ensure that antitrust enforcement remains apolitical and based on sound antitrust principles. While competition chapters have been included in previous trade agreements, we believe that these commitments can be strengthened even further. The upcoming North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) negotiations present an opportunity to produce even more robust competition commitments given the relatively close alignment that our country enjoys with Canada and Mexico on antitrust policy and enforcement. A strong competition chapter in NAFTA would establish a precedent-setting high bar for future bilateral trade negotiations, and would help send a clear message to jurisdictions around the world which lack procedural and due process safeguards. We encourage the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission to work with the U.S. Trade Representative on the development of a high standard model competition chapter for NAFTA and other future trade agreements. We also encourage the Antitrust Division and the Federal Trade Commission to support the U.S. Trade Representative’s negotiations to ensure that such commitments are secured in any final agreement. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to receiving your response. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary cc: U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer
07.28.2017	Today, the bipartisan Industrial Hemp Farming Act of 2017 (H.R. 3530) was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives by Congressman James Comer (R-Ky.), Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Jared Polis (D-Colo.), and Thomas Massie (R-Ky.). The Industrial Hemp Farming Act removes industrial hemp from the Controlled Substance Act’s definition of marijuana and gives states the authority to carry out responsible hemp cultivation programs, should they so choose. It also permits increased research opportunities on hemp production at state departments of agriculture and universities. Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement: “Industrial hemp isn’t a new crop to the United States, but most Americans aren’t aware of the wide range of legitimate uses for it. Last year, I had the opportunity to visit the Rockingham County farm of a participant in Virginia’s industrial hemp research program to see firsthand how this crop is grown and harvested. “I’ve met many Virginia farmers who are ready to commercially produce and create a market for industrial hemp in the U.S., but outdated, though well-intentioned, federal restrictions on the cultivation and commercialization of this crop stand in the way. By removing industrial hemp from the definition of a controlled substance, the Industrial Hemp Farming Act will finally allow for responsible, commercial production of industrial hemp without fear of violating federal law. “This bipartisan bill is the product of many months of robust discussion with both lawmakers and stakeholders. I am pleased to see it introduced today, and I look forward to moving this legislation through the House.” Did you know? Hemp has played an important role in our nation’s history. Our Founding Fathers grew hemp and made use of its remarkable textile qualities as they built our nation. During World War II, the U.S. government created a “Hemp for Victory” campaign to encourage hemp cultivation so that hemp products could be utilized by the war effort. Hemp can be used in thousands of products, including fabrics, textiles, paper, auto parts, home furnishings, carpet, construction materials, hemp seed and oil, plant-based beverages, nutritional supplements, and cosmetics. Click here for additional comments from the original sponsors of the Industrial Hemp Farming Act.
07.27.2017	The third annual Congressional App Challenge is now live! share: f t Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today announcing the launch of the third annual Congressional App Challenge: “The third annual Congressional App Challenge is now live! This Challenge is a great opportunity to engage student’s creativity and encourage their participation in the STEM education fields that create jobs and fuel innovation in America. With new apps for electronic devices popping up every day, it’s time for our students to show what they can do. I look forward to seeing the talents of our Sixth District students take shape through technology.” Additional Information: Established by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives in 2013, the Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide event that allows students from across the country to compete by creating and exhibiting their software application, or app, for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. It is open to all middle and high school students in the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia, and students may participate individually or in teams of up to four. The deadline for all submissions is November 1, 2017. Winning apps may be eligible for display in the U.S. Capitol Building. Interested students, educators, or parents/guardians may contact Congressman Goodlatte’s office at (202) 225-5431 should they have any questions about the Challenge. More information about the Congressional App Challenge, including the official rules and entry guidelines, may be found at www.congressionalappchallenge.us.
07.27.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today delivered the following remarks during a full committee hearing on "The Need for the Balanced Budget Amendment." Chairman Goodlatte: March 2, 1995, was a pivotal day in the history of our country. On that day, the U.S. Senate failed by one vote to send a balanced budget constitutional amendment to the states for ratification. The amendment had passed the House by the required two-thirds majority and the Senate vote was the last legislative hurdle before ratification by the states. If Congress had listened to the American people and sent that amendment to the states for ratification, we would not be facing the fiscal crisis we are today. Rather, balancing the federal budget would have been the norm, instead of the exception over the past 20 years and we would have nothing like the annual deficits and skyrocketing debt we currently face. In 1995, when the balanced budget amendment came within one vote of passing, the gross federal debt stood at $4.9 trillion; today it stands at over $19.5 trillion. The federal debt held by the public is rising as well and is increasing rapidly as a percentage of the country’s economic output. Unlike the past, when the debt spiked to pay for wars of finite duration and then was reduced gradually after hostilities ended—more recently, the debt has risen as a result of having to pay for entitlement programs that are of indefinite duration and difficult to reduce over time. As the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office has observed, “such high and rising debt [will] have serious negative consequences . . . interest rates [will] increase considerably . . . productivity and wages [will be] lower . . . [and] high debt increases the risk of a financial crisis.” What is particularly troubling is that the debts we are incurring will burden multiple future generations. Indeed, a few years ago a cross-national study found that the United States ranked worst among 29 advanced countries in the degree to which it imposes unfair debt burdens on future generations. It’s time for Congress to stop saddling future generations with the burden of crushing debts to pay for current spending. We should not pass on to our children and grandchildren the bleak fiscal future that our unsustainable spending is creating. The only way to ensure that Congress acts with fiscal restraint over the long term is to pass a balanced budget amendment. Experience has proven time and again that Congress cannot for any significant length of time rein in excessive spending. Annual deficits and the resulting debt continue to grow due to political pressures that the Constitution’s structure no longer serves to restrain. In order for Congress to be able to consistently make the tough decisions necessary to sustain fiscal responsibility, Congress must have the external pressure of a balanced budget requirement to force it to do so. The Framers of the Constitution were familiar with the need for constitutional restrictions on deficit spending. When the Constitution was ratified, it was the states that had exhibited out-of-control fiscal mismanagement by issuing “bills of credit” to effectively print money to pay for projects and service debt. As a result of that lack of fiscal discipline, Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution specifically deprives states of the power to issue bills of credit. Over two hundred years later, it is the federal government that has proven its inability to adopt sound fiscal policies and thus it is now time to adopt a constitutional restraint on federal fiscal mismanagement. Several versions of the balanced budget amendment have been introduced this Congress, including two I introduced this Congress as I have every Congress for the last decade. H.J. Res. 2 is nearly identical to text that passed the House in 1995 and failed in the Senate by one vote. It requires that total annual outlays not exceed total annual receipts. It also requires a true majority of each chamber to pass tax increases and a three-fifths majority to raise the debt limit. H.J. Res. 1, which I also introduced, goes further. In addition to the provisions of H.J. Res. 2, it requires a three-fifths majority to raise taxes and imposes an annual cap on federal spending. While my preference is to pass the stronger version of the balanced budget amendment, the two-thirds majority requirement for passing a constitutional amendment demands that we achieve bipartisan support for any approach. Our extraordinary fiscal crisis demands an extraordinary solution. We must rise above partisanship and join together to send a balanced budget amendment to the states for ratification. We are at a crossroads. We can make the tough choices to control spending and pave the way for a return to surpluses and paying down the national debt, or we can continue further down the road of chronic deficits, leaving our children and grandchildren with crippling debt that is not of their own making. The choice is ours and the stakes are high. I look forward to hearing from our distinguished panels of witnesses today about this important issue. VIDEO: Goodlatte’s opening statement at the hearing on the need for the balanced budget amendment. VIDEO: Goodlatte questions hearing witnesses on policies to control federal spending.
07.27.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Judiciary Committee Republicans today sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein calling for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate unaddressed matters, some connected to the 2016 election and others, including many actions taken by Obama Administration officials like Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI Director James Comey, and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The letter follows yesterday’s House Judiciary Committee approval of H. Res. 446, as amended, to request documents pertaining to the FBI’s investigation of former Secretary Clinton. In their letter, the Judiciary Committee members express concern that the directive given to Special Counsel Robert Mueller is narrow in scope and many concerns arising out of the 2016 presidential election and its aftermath are not being investigated. The members call for the appointment of a second special counsel to investigate grave concerns such as former Attorney General Lynch’s directive to former FBI Director Comey to mislead the American people on the nature of the investigation into former Secretary Clinton; the FBI and Justice Department’s investigative decisions related to the Clinton email investigation, including the immunity deals given to potential co-conspirators; selected leaks of classified information that unmasked U.S. persons incidentally collected upon by the intelligence community; and the FBI’s reliance on “Fusion GPS” in its investigation of the Trump campaign, among many others issues. Full text of today’s letter is available here and below. July 27, 2017 Dear Attorney General Sessions and Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein: We are writing to you to request assistance in restoring public confidence in our nation’s justice system and its investigators, specifically the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). We need to enable these agencies to perform their necessary and important law enforcement and intelligence functions fully unhindered by politics. While we presume that the FBI’s investigation into Russian influence has been subsumed into Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation, we are not confident that other matters related to the 2016 election and aftermath are similarly under investigation by Special Counsel Mueller. The unbalanced, uncertain, and seemingly unlimited focus of the special counsel’s investigation has led many of our constituents to see a dual standard of justice that benefits only the powerful and politically well-connected. For this reason, we call on you to appoint a second special counsel to investigate a plethora of matters connected to the 2016 election and its aftermath, including actions taken by previously public figures like Attorney General Loretta Lynch, FBI Director James Comey, and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Many Democrats and members of the Washington media previously called for a “special prosecutor” to investigate Russian influence on the election and connections with the Trump campaign. Not surprisingly, once you actually made the decision to appoint a special counsel, the calls for further investigations by congressional committees continued, focused on allegations that have heretofore produced no evidence of criminality, despite the fact that over a year has passed since the opening of the original FBI investigation. Political gamesmanship continues to saturate anything and everything associated with reactions to President Trump’s executive decisions, and reveals the hypocrisy of those who refuse to allow the Special Counsel’s investigation to proceed without undue political influence. It is an unfortunate state of affairs. Your stated rationale for recommending Director Comey’s termination as FBI Director was his mishandling of former Secretary Clinton’s email investigation and associated public disclosures concerning the investigation’s findings. We believe this was the correct decision. It is clear that Director Comey contributed to the politicization of the FBI’s investigations by issuing his public statement, nominating himself as judge and jury, rather than permitting career DOJ prosecutors to make the final decision. But many other questions remain unanswered, due to Mr. Comey’s premature and inappropriate decision, as well as the Obama Justice Department’s refusal to respond to legitimate Congressional oversight. Last week, the Republican Members of this Committee sent a letter to the Justice Department, asking for responses to those unanswered inquiries. These questions cannot, for history’s sake and for the preservation of an impartial system of justice, be allowed to die on the vine. It is therefore incumbent on this Committee, in our oversight capacity, to ensure that the agencies we oversee are above reproach and that the Justice Department, in particular, remains immune to accusations of politicization. Many Congressional entities have been engaged in oversight of Russian influence on the election, but a comprehensive investigation into the 2016 Presidential campaign and its aftermath must, similarly, be free of even the suggestion of political interference. The very core of our justice system demands as much. A second, newly-appointed special counsel will not be encumbered by these considerations, and will provide real value to the American people in offering an independent perspective on these extremely sensitive matters. Our call for a special counsel is not made lightly. We have no interest in engendering more bad feelings and less confidence in the process or governmental institutions by the American people. Rather, our call is made on their behalf. It is meant to determine whether the criminal prosecution of any individual is warranted based on the solemn obligation to follow the facts wherever they lead and applying the law to those facts. As we referenced above, Democrats and the mainstream media called for a special counsel to be appointed to investigate any Russian influence on President Trump’s campaign. Their pleas were answered, but there are many questions that may be outside the scope of Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation. This was clear following Mr. Comey’s recent testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee on June 8, 2017, which ignited renewed scrutiny of former Attorney General Loretta Lynch, and the actions she took to mislead the public concerning the investigation into the Clinton email investigation. Last year, this Committee inquired repeatedly about the circumstances surrounding that and other matters, but our inquiries were largely ignored. During his testimony, Mr. Comey referenced a meeting on the Phoenix airport tarmac between Ms. Lynch and former President Bill Clinton. Mr. Comey raised concerns about Ms. Lynch’s conduct, and questioned her independence, stating: At one point, the attorney general had directed me not to call it an investigation, but instead to call it a matter, which confused me and concerned me. That was one of the bricks in the load that led me to conclude, ‘I have to step away from the department if we’re to close this case credibly.’ In addition, in preparing to testify in front of Congress for a September 2015 hearing, Mr. Comey asked Ms. Lynch at the time whether she was prepared to refer to the Clinton investigation as just that, an “investigation.” Mr. Comey testified that Ms. Lynch said, “Yes, but don’t call it that, call it a matter.” Mr. Comey retorted, “Why would I do that?” Ms. Lynch answered, “Just call it a matter.” Mr. Comey stated that he acquiesced, but it gave him “a queasy feeling,” since it gave him the “impression that the attorney general was trying to align how we describe our work” with how the Clinton campaign was talking about it. Notwithstanding the fact that the FBI is the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and not the Federal Bureau of Matters, one is hard-pressed to understand why Ms. Lynch directed then-Director Comey to call the Clinton investigation a “matter” unless she intended to use such deceptive language to help wrongly persuade the American people that former Secretary Clinton was not, in fact, the subject of a full-scale FBI investigation, or to otherwise undermine the integrity of the investigation. Following Director Comey’s Senate Intelligence Committee testimony, Senator Dianne Feinstein was asked about the testimony while appearing on CNN’s “State of the Union.” Senator Feinstein stated, “I would have a queasy feeling too, though, to be candid with you, I think we need to know more about that, and there’s only one way to know about it, and that’s to have the Judiciary Committee take a look at that.” We share Senator Feinstein’s and Mr. Comey’s concerns – specifically, that during the midst of a contentious Presidential election, which was already rife with scandal arising from Secretary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information, that our nation’s chief law enforcement officer would instruct the FBI Director, her subordinate, to mislead the American public about the nature of the investigation. Following Ms. Lynch’s directive to downplay the Clinton investigation as a “matter,” Director Comey infamously terminated the Clinton investigation, stating, “[a]lthough there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case.” Mr. Comey’s testimony has provided new evidence that Ms. Lynch may have used her position of authority to undermine the Clinton investigation. At any other point in history this accusation would entail a shock to the conscience of law abiding Americans who expect a DOJ free of political influence. We only have, however, an investigation into Russian influence on the 2016 election, including any ties to the Trump campaign. To limit our nation’s insight into just this this single component of the 2016 election will only cause the special counsel’s work to be derided as one-sided and incomplete. The special counsel’s work must begin and end unimpeded by political motivations on either side of the aisle. For these reasons, the following points must also be fully investigated – ideally, via a second special counsel. This is imperative to regain the cherished trust and confidence in our undoubtedly distressed law enforcement and political institutions. We call on a newly appointed special counsel to investigate, consistent with appropriate regulations, the following questions, many of which were previously posed by this Committee and remain unanswered: 1. Then-Attorney General Loretta Lynch directing Mr. Comey to mislead the American people on the nature of the Clinton investigation; 2. The shadow cast over our system of justice concerning Secretary Clinton and her involvement in mishandling classified information; 3. FBI and DOJ’s investigative decisions related to former Secretary Clinton’s email investigation, including the propriety and consequence of immunity deals given to potential Clinton co-conspirators Cheryl Mills, Heather Samuelson, John Bentel and possibly others; 4. The apparent failure of DOJ to empanel a grand jury to investigate allegations of mishandling of classified information by Hillary Clinton and her associates; 5. The Department of State and its employees’ involvement in determining which communications of Secretary Clinton’s and her associates to turn over for public scrutiny; 6. WikiLeaks disclosures concerning the Clinton Foundation and its potentially unlawful international dealings; 7. Connections between the Clinton campaign, or the Clinton Foundation, and foreign entities, including those from Russia and Ukraine; 8. Mr. Comey’s knowledge of the purchase of Uranium One by the company Rosatom, whether the approval of the sale was connected to any donations made to the Clinton Foundation, and what role Secretary Clinton played in the approval of that sale that had national security ramifications; 9. Disclosures arising from unlawful access to the Democratic National Committee’s (DNC) computer systems, including inappropriate collusion between the DNC and the Clinton campaign to undermine Senator Bernie Sanders’ presidential campaign; 10. Post-election accusations by the President that he was wiretapped by the previous Administration, and whether Mr. Comey and Ms. Lynch had any knowledge of efforts made by any federal agency to unlawfully monitor communications of then-candidate Trump or his associates; 11. Selected leaks of classified information related to the unmasking of U.S. person identities incidentally collected upon by the intelligence community, including an assessment of whether anyone in the Obama Administration, including Mr. Comey, Ms. Lynch, Ms. Susan Rice, Ms. Samantha Power, or others, had any knowledge about the “unmasking” of individuals on then candidate-Trump’s campaign team, transition team, or both; 12. Admitted leaks by Mr. Comey to Columbia University law professor, Daniel Richman, regarding conversations between Mr. Comey and President Trump, how the leaked information was purposefully released to lead to the appointment of a special counsel, and whether any classified information was included in the now infamous “Comey memos”; 13. Mr. Comey’s and the FBI’s apparent reliance on “Fusion GPS” in its investigation of the Trump campaign, including the company’s creation of a “dossier” of information about Mr. Trump, that dossier’s commission and dissemination in the months before and after the 2016 election, whether the FBI paid anyone connected to the dossier, and the intelligence sources of Fusion GPS or any person or company working for Fusion GPS and its affiliates; and 14. Any and all potential leaks originated by Mr. Comey and provide to author Michael Schmidt dating back to 1993. You have the ability now to right the ship for the American people so these investigations may proceed independently and impartially. The American public has a right to know the facts – all of them – surrounding the election and its aftermath. We urge you to appoint a second special counsel to ensure these troubling, unanswered questions are not relegated to the dustbin of history. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Jim Jordan Lamar Smith Matt Gaetz Tom Marino Steve Chabot Blake Farenthold Steve King Louis Gohmert Ted Poe Doug Collins Raul Labrador Ron DeSantis Andy Biggs Mike Johnson John Rutherford Martha Roby John Ratcliffe Trent Franks Karen Handel
07.26.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 19-11 legislation to reform the asylum system. The Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act (H.R. 391), originally introduced by Representative Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) and now sponsored by Representative Mike Johnson (R-La.), makes a number of improvements to our nation’s laws to prevent fraud and abuse in the asylum system and ensure that it is reserved for those truly fleeing persecution in their home countries. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on today’s Committee approval of the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “The recent surge of Central American unaccompanied alien minors and family units seeking to enter the U.S. illegally at our southern border put a strain on manpower and resources. It also exposed loopholes in our nation’s immigration laws that are being exploited by smugglers and others seeking to game the system. The Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act makes a number of changes to address these problems while also maintaining our country’s historic generosity toward those fleeing persecution in their home countries. I am pleased that the House Judiciary Committee has approved this bill and others to improve our nation’s immigration system and urge the House to take them up when Congress returns in a few weeks.” Key Components of the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act: Strengthens Asylum Process to Protect Legitimate Claims and Prevent Fraud: • Improves Credible Fear Standard: We must fix the very minimal standard under current law that allows an alien apprehended at the border to show a “credible fear of persecution” and then generally be released into our communities while their asylum claim goes through the very lengthy immigration court process. During Fiscal Years 2015 and 2016, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) approved 81% and 88% of credible fear claims, respectively – many of which were fraudulent and baseless. The result was an explosion of claims as word got out of the virtual rubberstamping of applications. The bill requires aliens to more clearly demonstrate a credible fear of persecution in order to curtail fraud and help ensure only legitimate claims are approved. • Terminates Asylum for Those Who Return Home: The bill requires termination of asylum status where an asylee returns to their home country from which they sought asylum, absent a change in country conditions. Reforms Immigration Parole Law to Prevent Executive Overreach: Under current law, DHS is able to bring into the U.S. otherwise inadmissible aliens and release detained aliens – but only in very narrow circumstances. The Obama Administration abused the parole program – going well beyond the intent of Congress – to admit entire classes of aliens and release large numbers of detained aliens. In order to prevent such abuses from happening again in the future, the bill specifies the precise instances in which parole can be used. Provides Asylum Seekers Ability to Apply for Benefits from Safe Third Countries: The bill grants DHS the power to remove asylum seekers to safe third countries where they would have access to a full and fair procedure for applying for asylum without the current necessity for bilateral agreements with those countries. This would allow the return of apprehended Central Americans to Mexico where they could apply for asylum. Protects Taxpayer Dollars: While the Immigration and Nationality Act has long prohibited taxpayer-funded attorneys for aliens in removal proceedings, the Obama Administration used taxpayer dollars to pay for lawyers for unaccompanied alien minors. The bill makes the prohibition more explicit so that no Administration can disregard the law and provide taxpayer-funded counsel to unlawful immigrants. To learn more about the Committee’s efforts to improve our immigration system, click here.
07.25.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the announcement from the Department of Justice that state and local governments obtaining federal law enforcement grant funding must comply with federal immigration enforcement efforts: “I applaud Attorney General Sessions for his commitment to combating dangerous sanctuary policies that needlessly jeopardize innocent lives. We are all too familiar with how these reckless policies have devastated families across the United States and today’s action by the Department of Justice is a good first step. It’s simply commonsense to require state and local governments to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement efforts if they are to receive federal law enforcement grants. We must also permanently strengthen the law to address this public safety problem by enacting the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act. Now that the House has passed this bill, it’s past time for the Senate to act.” Additional Background: Last month, the House of Representatives approved the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003), authored by Chairman Goodlatte, to strengthen public safety by combating dangerous sanctuary policies that permit criminals to go free. The legislation is now pending action by the Senate. More information on the bill can be found here.
07.21.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and all Judiciary Committee Republicans today sent a letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions requesting responses to the Committee’s unanswered oversight letters sent during the Obama Administration. The House Judiciary Committee has oversight over the U.S. Department of Justice and its components. During the Obama Administration, the Committee sought answers to a multitude of questions concerning various issues of interest stemming from Judiciary hearings and oversight responsibilities. However, many of these inquiries remain unanswered or inadequately answered. Full text of today’s letter, including an attachment of outstanding requests, is available here and below. July 21, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General Washington, D.C. Dear Attorney General Sessions, As you know, you lead a Department over which the House Judiciary Committee has primary oversight jurisdiction. Throughout the Obama Administration, the Judiciary Committee sent letters to your predecessors as Attorney General, and to individual DOJ components, requesting answers to a multitude of questions concerning various issues of interest stemming from Judiciary hearings and oversight responsibilities. Many of the inquiries remain unanswered, with some outstanding requests approaching two years overdue. Congressional oversight is not a responsibility that we take lightly, and our ability to provide this service for the American people is most effective when we work in cooperation with the Administration. Considering that the Obama Administration failed to respond to a host of requests over the years, we write now asking you to rectify this situation, by helping the Judiciary Committee obtain answers to outstanding oversight questions. To that end, we have attached a list of letters and/or questions that remain either unanswered or inadequately addressed by the previous Administration. Please review the attached list, and provide us with answers at your earliest convenience. Thank you for giving this request priority. We know that we share the common goals of identifying instances of waste, fraud, and abuse, rooting out such conduct, and implementing solutions necessary to help ensure they do not happen again in the future. I look forward to working with you on this effort. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Jim Sensenbrenner Lamar Smith Blake Farenthold Steve Chabot Darrell Issa Jim Jordan Louie Gohmert Raul Labrador Ron DeSantis Andy Biggs Ken Buck Matt Gaetz Mike Johnson Ted Poe Tom Marino Trent Franks Trey Gowdy Steve King Doug Collins John Rutherford John Ratcliffe Martha Roby Karen Handel Attachments enclosed.
07.12.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today passed a bipartisan, bicameral bill by voice vote to combat our nation’s synthetic drug epidemic, the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act of 2017 (H.R. 2851). The bill was introduced by Congressman John Katko (R-N.Y.). House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on today’s Committee approval of the bill: “The drug epidemic currently plaguing the United States is destroying lives, families, and communities across the United States. It affects rural and urban areas and grandparents, parents, and kids alike. While Congress has taken action to combat the opioid epidemic through the historic Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act, it’s clear that we need more tools to combat the ever-growing problem of synthetic drug abuse. “Today, the House Judiciary Committee has taken action to address this national crisis by passing the Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act. Criminals can figure out a way to change one molecule in a drug, but the resulting drug is just as dangerous, and often even more so. This bill closes this dangerous loophole by ensuring our laws keep pace with the creation of new, chemically-altered drugs and by providing law enforcement with the tools needed to keep these drugs off of our streets. I applaud Congressman Katko for introducing this bill and urge the House to take it up soon.” In 2015, over 52,000 Americans died from drug overdoses. Nearly 20 percent of these deaths resulted from an overdose of synthetic opioids like fentanyl, which can be as much as 100 times more powerful than painkillers such as morphine. Additionally, synthetic analogues with street names like K2, Spice, Bath Salts, or Molly are designed to mimic other street drugs like marijuana, LSD, and Ecstasy and can be more potent than the real thing and just as deadly. Criminal drug manufacturers, largely from China, work continuously to stay ahead of U.S. drug laws by altering the molecular structure of their drugs as soon as the government bans them. The Controlled Substances Act (CSA), which was signed into law over 40 years ago, was designed to protect the public from the dangers associated with drugs and drug use. However, the CSA was not designed to handle the magnitude and speed in which these new psychoactive substances have emerged in our communities. The Stop the Importation and Trafficking of Synthetic Analogues Act updates the CSA to provide swifter action to stop the unlawful importation and distribution of synthetic drugs, and gives law enforcement effective tools to help keep our communities safe. The House Judiciary Committee held a legislative hearing on this bill in June.
07.12.2017	The House of Representatives today approved by voice vote the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act (H.R. 2480). This bill, authored by Representative Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.) and a product of the House Judiciary Committee, ensures that state and local governments are able to obtain and use federal law enforcement grant funding for programs that combat human trafficking, including programs aimed at reducing demand for commercial sex. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program is the primary provider of federal criminal justice funding to state and local jurisdictions. The JAG Program currently provides states and units of local governments with critical funding necessary to support a range of program areas, including law enforcement; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections; drug treatment and enforcement; crime victim and witness initiatives; and mental health programs. Since fighting human trafficking is a top law enforcement priority, the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act adds a category for programs that combat human trafficking and address demand reduction. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on today’s House action to fight human trafficking: “Every person has inherent worth and value and ought to be treated with dignity. Human traffickers and their buyers dehumanize their victims for their own profit and pleasure, and we must do all we can to fight this heinous crime and bring perpetrators to justice. Today, the House has taken action to combat this crime by passing the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act to ensure that state and local law enforcement officials have access to additional tools needed to fight human trafficking in their communities. I applaud the House for approving this bill and urge the Senate to pass it quickly.” For more on the House Judiciary Committee’s work to combat child exploitation and human trafficking, click here. Click here to watch Goodlatte’s remarks in support of the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act. NOTE: Today, the House of Representatives approved three bills to combat human trafficking – the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act, the Enhancing Detection of Human Trafficking Act, and the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Act.
07.11.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved H.R. 954 by voice vote, legislation introduced by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) to lift deed use restrictions on one acre of National Park Service property used for the Plains Area Day Care Center in Broadway. Similar legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Tim Kaine (D-Va.). Congressman Goodlatte’s legislation previously passed the House in 2015, but the Senate did not act. Congressman Goodlatte spoke on the House Floor in support of his legislation. Click here for the video. Below are Goodlatte’s remarks, as prepared: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of H.R. 954. This bill simply removes twenty-year-old deed use restrictions on one acre of land in Rockingham County, Virginia. For over 25 years, a little over three acres of land and its associated buildings, previously wholly held by the federal government, have been maintained by Rockingham County and the Plains Area Day Care Center in the Sixth District of Virginia. In 1989, the federal government deeded these three acres of land, with restriction, to Rockingham County. However, even prior to this official declaration, Rockingham County had already been faithfully maintaining the property, no longer utilized by the federal government. The government transferred this land to Rockingham County in 1989 under the condition that this property was to be used for public purposes. The county then decided that the non-profit Plains Area Day Care Center in Broadway, Virginia, which provides childcare on a sliding scale to many families who otherwise could not afford such a service, would benefit from use of the old garage located on the property. Therefore in 1990, Congress enacted Public Law 101-479, which allowed the deed to be changed from public use to the particular use of the childcare center. Donations by the community totaling $75,000 turned the garage building into a nursery, daycare, and afterschool care facility. Additionally, the establishment of the day care center provided for the creation of a playground that the center supports and opens for public use. To be clear, the center and the playground are the sole reasons this previously abandoned government land is being used by the community. I have visited the Plains Area Day Care Center on many occasions and have seen the immeasurable investment this center is making in the community by providing high quality childcare. Since opening in 1991, the center has always been at capacity and is the only facility of its kind in the community. However, after two decades of consistent use, the facility is in desperate need of repairs. Unfortunately, because of the narrow way Public Law 101-479 was drafted and because of the terms of the deed, the day care center has been unable to obtain a loan to complete much-needed renovations. To solve this issue, my legislation would remove the deed’s use restrictions from the one acre of property on which the building resides. While I would like to have seen the entire three acres released, this legislation is the result of a compromise that has been endorsed by the National Park Service and Rockingham County. By passing this legislation and allowing Rockingham County, and in turn the Plains Area Day Care Center, more authority over the land, we will ensure that more children and more of the community will be served. Mr. Speaker, while my legislation today is simply a formality, it is of great importance to those being served by this day care center in the community. For 25 years, the land has been deeded to Rockingham County, but with overbearing restrictions. Since it is clear the federal government no longer has a vested interest in the land, it is time to lift those restrictions to allow the Plains Area Day Care Center to reach its full potential. Twenty years ago, Congress made its intention clear that a day care facility was to have use of the property, and I am pleased to lead the charge in fixing the law. I thank Chairman Bishop and his Committee for bringing this bill before the House. I also thank my Legislative Assistant, Angela Inglett, for her hard work on this legislation. I urge passage of H.R. 954 to simply remove the deed restrictions on one acre of land, so that the necessary upgrades may be made to the childcare center and this community investment may continue.
06.29.2017	Today, the House of Representatives will vote on two bills authored by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee – the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003) and Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004). In an op-ed in The Hill today, Congressman Goodlatte explains why the reforms contained in these two bills are needed now to save American lives. The House can bolster immigration enforcement by passing two bills The Hill By Rep. Bob Goodlatte | June 29, 2017 House Republicans are working diligently to deliver on our promises made to the American people. This week, we will take the first step in our commitment to strengthen immigration enforcement and secure the border by voting on two simple, straightforward bills in the House of Representatives. These bills, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law, target dangerous sanctuary city policies that permit criminals to go free and bolster public safety by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the U.S. These pieces of legislation are needed desperately. For years, the lack of immigration enforcement and the spread of dangerous sanctuary policies have failed the American people and cost too many lives, including Kate Steinle, Sarah Root and Grant Ronnebeck. Two years ago, Kate Steinle was taking a stroll with her father in San Francisco when Juan Francisco Sanchez-Lopez fired a stolen gun and struck and killed Kate. Sanchez-Lopez should have never been in the United States and he should not have been on the streets of San Francisco. He had already been deported five times and had multiple felony convictions. Despite his extensive rap sheet, he was released by San Francisco authorities prior to shooting Kate. In January 2016, Edwin Mejia, an unlawful immigrant driving drunk and street racing, struck Sarah Root’s car and subsequently killed her. She had just graduated from college with a 4.0 grade point average. To make matters worse, Mejia was released from state custody and is still on the loose. Sarah Root’s mom testified that the suspect’s bond was less than the cost of her daughter’s funeral. And in January 2015, Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old store clerk at a convenience store in Arizona, was shot and killed over a pack of cigarettes by a convicted felon, Apolinar Altamirano, who was free on bond while facing deportation. The deaths of innocent Americans like Kate, Sarah, Grant, and too many others, are tragic. Their deaths are especially devastating since they could have been prevented if our immigration laws had been enforced. We must take action to honor the memory of those who have lost their lives and prevent these senseless crimes from happening to others. To do just that, the House will vote on the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act. This bill strengthens the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Specifically, it clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority—the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails—by establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. By providing a rigorous standard for ICE to meet before placing the detainer, the bill both protects civil liberties and fortifies the legal sufficiency of detainers. The bill also protects jurisdictions that comply with detainers from being sued—a real problem that many cities, who in good faith are trying to follow the law, have faced. And it allows victims of crime to sue jurisdictions that refuse to comply and subsequently release criminal aliens onto the streets who then commit crimes that harm these victims. To further compel cities to comply with the law, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act withholds certain federal law enforcement and homeland security grants from jurisdictions that prohibit their officers from cooperating with ICE in violation of long-standing federal law. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act also contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, named after Sarah Root and Grant Ronnebeck. This provision ensures unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving or arrested for other dangerous crimes are detained during their removal proceedings. Additionally, the House will vote on Kate’s Law, named after Kate Steinle. Kate’s Law protects public safety by enhancing penalties for deported felons who illegally reenter the United States. It raises the maximum sentence for criminal aliens who come back to the United States after being removed, representing a true deterrent for criminals seeking to break the law yet again. We have much work to do to make our immigration system work better for America. For example, we need to enact the comprehensive reforms contained in the Davis-Oliver Act to further increase public safety, secure the border, strengthen national security, and restore the rule of law. But the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law are a good first step toward addressing urgent problems facing our nation. We owe it to the families of those who have lost loved ones to take action to prevent such horrible crimes. They have waited far too long. Representative Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) is Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over U.S. immigration law. He is also the sponsor of the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act and Kate’s Law. http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/judicial/339999-the-house-can-bolster-immigration-enforcement-by-passing-two
06.29.2017	The House of Representatives today approved Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004) by a vote of 257-167. Authored by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, this bill protects public safety by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. The bill is named after Kate Steinle, who was murdered in San Francisco by an unlawful immigrant who had previously been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies. Goodlatte praised House passage of Kate’s Law in the statement below: “The death of Kate Steinle and too many others are tragic. Her death is particularly devastating since it could have been prevented if our immigration laws had been enforced. The person responsible for her murder was a known felon who had been deported numerous times. There is no reason he should have been free to roam our streets and take away Kate’s life. “Kate’s Law is a simple, straightforward bill. It enhances the current maximum sentences for illegal reentry into the United States, serving as a strong deterrent for deported felons seeking to come back to the United States. I am pleased the House has acted on this commonsense bill and call on the Senate to pass it without delay. The Steinle family and other families who have lost loved ones to lax immigration enforcement have waited for far too long. This bill is a good step toward improving our immigration laws and I remain committed to reforming many aspects of the immigration system as well.” To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s efforts to improve our nation’s immigration laws, click here. WATCH: Congressman Goodlatte speaks on the House floor in support of Kate’s Law.
06.29.2017	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 228-195 a bill to strengthen public safety by combating dangerous sanctuary policies that permit criminals to go free. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Representatives Steve King (R-Iowa) and Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.) were the authors of the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003). Chairman Goodlatte applauded House passage of the bill: “Sanctuary cities needlessly jeopardize innocent lives. By refusing to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement authorities, sanctuary policies allow unlawful and criminal immigrants to be released onto the streets. We are all too familiar with how dangerous sanctuary policies have devastated families across the United States and we must strengthen the law to combat such recklessness. “The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act provides much needed tools to enhance public safety. It strengthens federal immigration enforcement officers’ ability to pick up criminal aliens from local jails. The bill also contains Sarah and Grant’s Law to ensure unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving, or arrested for other dangerous crimes, are detained during their removal proceedings. We have much work to do to improve our nation’s immigration laws, such as passing the Davis-Oliver Act and others, but this bill is a good first step. I applaud the House for approving this bill and call on the Senate to pass it immediately.” About the bill: The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act strengthens the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Specifically, the bill clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority—the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails—by establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. It also withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE. The bill protects jurisdictions that comply with detainers from being sued, while allowing victims of crime to sue jurisdictions that refuse to comply and subsequently release criminal aliens onto the streets. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act also contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving or arrested for other dangerous crimes are detained during their removal proceedings. This provision is named after Sarah Root and Grant Ronnebeck. In January 2016, an unlawful immigrant driving drunk struck Sarah Root’s car and subsequently killed her. She had just graduated from college. To make matters worse, the person responsible was released from custody and is still on the loose. And in January 2015, Grant Ronnebeck was murdered at a convenience store by a convicted felon who was free on bond while facing deportation. To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s efforts to improve our nation’s immigration laws, click here.
06.28.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act (H.R. 2480). This bill, authored by Representative Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), ensures that state and local governments are able to obtain and use federal law enforcement grant funding for programs that combat human trafficking, including programs aimed at reducing demand for commercial sex. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant (JAG) Program is the primary provider of federal criminal justice funding to state and local jurisdictions. The JAG Program currently provides states and units of local governments with critical funding necessary to support a range of program areas, including law enforcement; prosecution and court programs; prevention and education programs; corrections and community corrections; drug treatment and enforcement; crime victim and witness initiatives; and mental health programs. Since fighting human trafficking is a top law enforcement priority, the Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act adds a category for programs that combat human trafficking and address demand reduction. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va) issued the following statement on today’s Committee action to fight human trafficking: “Every life matters and has inherent worth, and we must do all we can to fight human trafficking. The Empowering Law Enforcement to Fight Sex Trafficking Demand Act ensures that state and local law enforcement officials have access to additional tools needed to fight this heinous crime in their communities. I thank Congresswoman Hartzler for her work to fight human trafficking and look forward to her bill being voted on by the House of Representatives in the coming weeks.” For more on the House Judiciary Committee’s work to combat child exploitation and human trafficking, click here. Click here to watch a video on the Committee’s work.
06.28.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 15-11 legislation to reform the refugee program. The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 2826), introduced by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below on today’s Committee approval of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: “The United States has been a beacon of hope and has provided a safe home to millions of people seeking refuge from persecution in their home countries. The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act maintains our nation’s generosity toward those fleeing persecution in their homeland and also makes a number of critical reforms to the refugee program to ensure it works in Americans’ best interest. Notably, the bill enhances screening and establishes thorough vetting procedures to identify fraud and potential security risks. Administration officials have stated that roughly 300 people who came to the U.S. as refugees are under active investigation by the FBI for potential terrorism-related offenses. We have an obligation to the American people to beef up vetting procedures for those seeking to come here. I thank Representative Labrador for his work on this bill and urge the House to take it up soon.” Key Components of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: Places the refugee ceiling in Congress’ hands—not the President’s: • The bill sets the refugee ceiling at 50,000 per year. It allows the President to recommend a revision of the ceiling number and Congress can choose to act on that recommendation. • The bill prevents the President from admitting additional refugees without Congress’ approval. Empowers state and local communities: • Currently, states or localities that do not want refugees resettled within their communities have no recourse. The bill remedies this issue and prevents the resettlement of refugees in any state or locality that takes legislative or executive action disapproving resettlement within their jurisdiction. Enhances integrity of refugee program and curbs fraud: • It requires that when processing refugee applications from countries listed as “Countries of Particular Concern” in the annual report of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, claims/applications that are based on religious persecution and are made by individuals who practice minority religions in such countries, are prioritized. • The bill requires termination of refugee status if a resettled refugee returns to the country from which they fled, absent a change in country conditions. • It requires the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to implement a fraudulent document detection program for refugee processing, including the placement of Fraud Detection and National Security officials at initial refugee screening locations, and the creation of a searchable database of scanned and categorized documents submitted by potential refugees at initial screening. • It provides for regular security vetting of each admitted refugee until the refugee adjusts immigration status to lawful permanent resident. • Within one year of the bill becoming law, all U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) interviews, performed during USCIS circuit rides and done with the assistance of an interpreter, are to be recorded and DHS must review a random selection of 20% of the recordings to ensure that the interpreter correctly interpreted the interview. If an interpreter is found to have incorrectly interpreted the interview, the interpreter cannot serve as an interpreter for immigration purposes. • The bill requires USCIS to review publicly available Internet postings, including social media, for each applicant. Strengthens public safety and national security: • The bill prevents the Secretary of DHS from unilaterally waiving most grounds of inadmissibility, including criminal convictions, for refugees. • It also prevents the DHS Secretary from waiving most grounds of inadmissibility and deportability, including criminal grounds, for refugees attempting to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident. • The bill requires the Government Accountability Office to issue a report on the security of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (including the screening and processing procedures); the number of refugees who have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses since 2006; and the use of federally-funded benefit programs by refugees resettled in the United States. To learn more about the Committee’s efforts to improve our immigration system, click here.
06.28.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement applauding House passage of the Protecting Access to Care Act (H.R. 1215) by a vote of 218-210. The Protecting Access to Care Act, a product of the House Judiciary Committee, reforms medical litigation laws in order to reduce the costly practice of defensive medicine, and save taxpayers billions of dollars while increasing access to healthcare. Goodlatte: “The endless amount of lawsuits brought against our nation’s doctors increases the cost of health care and limits the availability of doctors nationwide. “Today, House Republicans continue delivering on their promise to pass legislation aimed at making health care more affordable and more accessible for all Americans. “The Protecting Access to Care Act is much-needed, common sense, and cost-saving litigation reform that will increase health care accessibility for all, while ensuring injured patients have the access to justice that they rightly deserve.” Background: The Protecting Access to Care Act is modeled on California’s Medical Injury Compensation Reform Act (called MICRA), which has curbed California’s medical professional liability premiums and increased access to care. MICRAs reforms, which are included in the Protecting Access to Care Act, include a $250,000 cap on noneconomic damages; limits on the contingency fees lawyers can charge to maximize patient recovery; and a fair share rule, by which damages are allocated in direct proportion to fault. The Protecting Access to Care Act protects State laws regarding damages. Nothing in the bill interferes with the ability of states to enact their own caps on non-economic damages - whether significantly higher or lower than the cap in the legislation. Furthermore, the bill only applies to claims concerning the provision of goods/services for which coverage is provided in whole or in part via a Federal program, subsidy, or tax benefit, giving it a clear federal nexus. The Protecting Access to Care Act does not limit in any way an award of economic damages to injured victims. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the Protecting Access to Care Act would save $50 billion in federal taxpayers money. Watch: Congressman Goodlatte speaks on the House floor in support of the Protecting Access to Care Act.
06.27.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in support of the announcement today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers are proposing a rule to rescind the controversial 2015 Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule created under the Obama Administration: “Today, the EPA took a stand for common sense, personal liberty, and upholding constitutional governance. The federal government has an important role to play in supporting a healthy environment, but the WOTUS rule made little sense and flew in the face of both federalism and economic realities. Repeal of the WOTUS rule has been a long-fought effort that is good news for American farmers, businesses, and municipalities who would be most directly impacted by the far-reaching burdens of the original rule.” “At its core, WOTUS was an example of unworkable federal government overreach that dramatically expands the EPA’s authority over regulating waterways, including those on private property, and would place even more small streams and creeks under the agency’s control. Protecting America’s waterways is critical, but we need common sense policies that will protect water quality without limiting economic growth and unfairly over-regulating local agricultural producers and economies. I am pleased that the Trump Administration has taken action to undo this rule and get the EPA out of the business of micromanaging state and local water decisions.” Additional Information: In May, Congressman Goodlatte joined House Agriculture Committee Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas) in sending a letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions calling for a review of the legal theory underlying the Department of Justice’s decision to prosecute a California suit alleging violations under the Clean Water Act – directly related to both the statutory exemptions for farming and the Obama Administration’s WOTUS rule.
06.27.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) today sent a letter to Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats to renew their call for the number of U.S. persons included in Section 702 collections. The members also called for statistics on the methodologies used in developing the project as well as information on the resources that would need to be diverted in order to complete the project. On April 7, 2017, Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers wrote to Director Coats to request a public estimate of the number of communications involving U.S. persons incidentally swept up under FISA Section 702. On June 7, 2017, in testimony before the Senate, Director Coats stated that the production of that estimate would be “infeasible.” FISA Section 702, which targets the communications of non-U.S. persons outside of the United States in order to protect national security, reportedly contributes to more than a quarter of all National Security Agency surveillance and has been used on multiple occasions to detect and prevent horrific terrorist plots against our country. Although Congress designed this authority to target non-U.S. persons located outside of the United States, it is clear that Section 702 surveillance programs can and do incidentally collect information about U.S. persons when U.S. persons communicate with the foreign targets of Section 702 surveillance. Full text of today’s letter is available below. June 27, 2017 The Honorable Daniel Coats Director of National Intelligence Office of the Director of National Intelligence Washington, DC, 20511 Dear Director Coats: On April 7, 2017, we wrote to you to renew the request of several members of the House Committee on the Judiciary. Specifically, our colleagues had requested “a public estimate of the number of communications or transactions involving United States persons subject to Section 702 surveillance on an annual basis.” Over the course of more than a year, both your office and the National Security Agency worked with our staff to develop a methodology that would produce this information in a timely fashion. In our last letter, we were explicit about our expectations. You would provide us with this estimate “in time to inform the debate” on the reauthorization of Section 702. Unless you communicated otherwise, we would assume that this “understanding of the project—which is based on multiple briefings to our staff by ODNI and NSA—is still accurate.” We asked for an update on your progress no later than April 24, 2017. We are now in receipt of your June 13 response to our letter. You write, in pertinent part, that “after more than a year of studying the matter, it has become clear that NSA is unable to develop an accurate and meaningful methodology” to complete this project. Unfortunately, your response arrived several days after you announced this conclusion before the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence—and also several weeks after the deadline we had specified in our last letter to you. As you know, our Committee has primary jurisdiction over the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. In the ordinary course of business, we would be troubled by your decision to ignore our request for so long, without so much as an explanation for the delay. In this particular instance, our Members are actively debating the reauthorization of Section 702. Failing to tell us that you will not deliver on this project—or even provide us with any meaningful advance notice of your testimony—is simply unacceptable. We appreciate that this project presents several technical challenges, and that it may be “infeasible” to provide us with exact figures. Nevertheless, we request that you provide us with the following information, in classified form if necessary, no later than Friday, July 7, 2017: • ODNI and NSA proposed several different methodologies for completing this project. Please provide us with copies of any statistical analysis undertaken with respect to any of these methodologies. • You testified that completing this project would require a “diversion of critical resources.” How did you determine what resources would need to be diverted? Please provide us with copies of any analysis of the cost of completing this project. • To the extent that you have already attempted to implement one or more of these methodologies— even if you believe the results to be an inexact proxy for the exact number of U.S. persons swept into Section 702 collections—please provide us with copies of those results. We remind you that Section 702 will expire on December 31, 2017. Our ability to answer questions about its impact on U.S. persons is a critical facet of reauthorization discussions. We hope that you will help us answer those questions on a timely basis. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman Committee on the Judiciary John Conyers, Jr. Ranking Member Committee on the Judiciary
06.23.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced two bills to strengthen public safety by combating dangerous sanctuary policies that permit criminals to go free and by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. Goodlatte issued the statement below on the introduction of these bills: “For years, the lack of immigration enforcement and the spread of dangerous sanctuary policies have failed the American people and cost too many lives. The deaths of innocent Americans, such as Kate Steinle, Sarah Root, Grant Ronnebeck, and too many others, are tragic. Their deaths are especially devastating since they could have been prevented if our immigration laws had been enforced. “The House Judiciary Committee is working to improve our nation’s immigration laws and policy, and today I have introduced two, straightforward bills to enhance public safety. The bills crack down on dangerous sanctuary policies that needlessly put innocent lives at risk. They enhance penalties for deported felons who return to the United States and ensure unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving, or arrested for other dangerous crimes, are detained during their removal proceedings. We owe it to the families of those who lost loved ones to take action to prevent these horrible crimes. They have waited far too long.” First, the No Sanctuary for Criminals Act (H.R. 3003), introduced by Goodlatte and Representatives Steve King (R-Iowa) and Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.), strengthens the law to combat dangerous sanctuary policies that shield unlawful and criminal immigrants from federal immigration enforcement. Specifically, the bill clarifies U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer authority – the tool used by federal immigration enforcement officers to pick up criminal aliens from local jails – by establishing statutory probable cause standards to issue detainers for the first time. It also withholds certain federal grants from jurisdictions that violate federal law by prohibiting their officers from communicating with ICE. The bill protects jurisdictions that comply with detainers from being sued, while allowing victims of crime to sue jurisdictions that refuse to comply and subsequently release criminal aliens onto the streets. The No Sanctuary for Criminals Act also contains Sarah and Grant’s Law, which ensures unlawful immigrants convicted of drunk driving or arrested for other dangerous crimes are detained during their removal proceedings. This provision is named after Sarah Root and Grant Ronnebeck. In January 2016, an unlawful immigrant driving drunk struck Sarah Root’s car and subsequently killed her. She had just graduated from college. To make matters worse, the person responsible was released from custody and is still on the loose. And in January 2015, Grant Ronnebeck was murdered at a convenience store by a convicted felon who was free on bond while facing deportation. The second bill introduced today, Kate’s Law (H.R. 3004), protects public safety by enhancing penalties for deported felons who return to the United States. The bill is named after Kate Steinle, who was murdered in San Francisco by an unlawful immigrant who had previously been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies. In another tragic example, Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales – a criminal immigrant previously deported at least five times—is reportedly responsible for nearly a dozen sexual assaults. He allegedly kidnapped a woman and attempted to light her on fire using gasoline, and kidnapped and raped a 68-year old woman. To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work to improve our nation’s immigration laws, click here.
06.21.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 15-12 the Protection of Children Act (H.R. 495). This bill ensures that unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. During the Obama Administration, lax immigration policies encouraged hundreds of thousands of unaccompanied minors from Central America to make the dangerous trek to the United States. In fact, from 2012 through 2016, over 231,000 unaccompanied minors were apprehended at the border. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote to ensure minors crossing the border are protected and safely returned home: “The Obama Administration’s disastrous immigration policies created disorder at our nation’s southern border and jeopardized the lives of hundreds of thousands of unaccompanied minors from Central America making the unsafe journey to the United States. These children, often assisted by smugglers, face many dangerous situations as they travel through Mexico and then walk miles across a hostile border environment. Fortunately, the Trump Administration has reversed many of the policies that led to the border surge but changes to the law are needed in order to close loopholes that helped encourage these children to risk their lives and come to the United States unaccompanied and unlawfully. “The Protection of Children Act makes common sense changes to our laws to ensure minors who travel to the U.S. alone are returned home safely and quickly. It also contains preventative measures to protect kids who stay in the U.S. from being delivered into the hands of sponsors who may be criminals or child abusers. I thank Congressman Carter for introducing this legislation and urge the House of Representatives to act on it soon.” Key Components of the Protection of Children Act: • Expeditiously and Safely Returns Unaccompanied Alien Minors Home: Under current law, minors from contiguous countries, such as Mexico, can be immediately returned if they consent, have not been trafficked, and don’t have a credible fear of persecution. However, minors from other countries must be placed in very lengthy removal proceedings in immigration court, during which they are usually released into the United States, often to the very parents who attempted to smuggle them into the United States. The bill eliminates the conflicting rules and subjects all minors to expeditious return if they have not been trafficked and don’t have a credible fear of persecution. The bill also provides authority for the Secretary of State to negotiate agreements with foreign countries regarding unaccompanied alien minors, including protections for the safety of minors returned to their countries of nationality. • Provides Victims of Trafficking Prompt Access to Justice: The bill ensures that minors who are victims of severe forms of trafficking are afforded a hearing before an Immigration Judge within 14 days. • Protects Unaccompanied Minors from Criminals and Child Abusers: The bill provides for greater transparency and safety of minors by requiring the Department of Health and Human Services to provide the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) with biographical information regarding the sponsors or family members to whom the minors are released. Currently, there is no requirement to share sponsor or family information with DHS. Without this information, there is a danger these minors will be lost in the system, or worse, be inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. The bill also mandates that DHS follow up with the sponsors with whom the minors are placed to verify the sponsors’ immigration status and issue notices for the sponsors to appear in immigration court where appropriate. • Clarifies Congressional Intent Regarding Special Immigrant Juvenile Status: Due to a mistake in current law, juveniles are able to obtain legal status if they can simply show they have been abandoned by a single parent. The bill reaffirms the original intent of the law to only provide protected status to juveniles who have lost or been abandoned by both parents. • Strengthens the Integrity of the Asylum Process: The bill remedies a commonly exploited loophole that allows unaccompanied minors to get two bites of the apple with regard to review of their asylum applications. Specifically, the bill streamlines the asylum process for unaccompanied minors by providing the immigration court with primary jurisdiction to adjudicate the application in certain cases.
06.20.2017	The House of Representatives today approved the Mobile Workforce State Income Tax Simplification Act of 2017 (H.R. 1393) by voice vote. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement applauding the passage of this Committee product: “American small businesses should not face added regulatory burdens just because they must occasionally send their employees across state lines to conduct their business. When a small business owner is faced with additional compliance requirements for employees in different states, those costs can add up and ultimately hurt the growth of the business as a whole. “The Mobile Workforce State Income Tax Simplification Act eases the regulatory burdens on small businesses and their employees who work across state lines, while creating a fair balance with states wishing to collect taxes on income earned in the state.” Background: The Mobile Workforce State Income Tax Simplification Act of 2017 is a bipartisan measure, which provides a clear, uniform framework for when states may tax nonresident employees who travel to the taxing state to perform work. In particular, the bill prevents states from imposing income tax compliance burdens on nonresidents who work in a foreign state for fewer than 31 days in a year. This uniform standard would substantially simplify state income tax law compliance for both employers and employees. • Forty-three states and the District of Columbia levy a personal income tax on wages and partnership income. • The state tax laws that determine when a nonresident must pay the foreign state’s income tax, and when employers must withhold this tax, are numerous and varied. • The bill provides that an employee is not subject to income tax in a nonresident state unless the employee has worked for more than 30 days in that jurisdiction. • Similarly, an employer is not responsible for withholding on behalf of such an employee who is only temporarily present in the taxing state. VIDEO: Click here to watch Congressman Goodlatte’s remarks on the House floor in support of the Mobile Workforce State Income Tax Simplification Act.
06.16.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to rescind the Obama Administration’s unilaterally-created program allowing potentially millions of unlawful immigrants to remain in the United States, the “Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents.” “Secretary Kelly made the right decision to end the Obama Administration’s unconstitutional executive amnesty program, which has already been struck down by the federal courts. With his pen and phone, President Obama sought to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws on his own terms, ignoring the Constitution and the fact that it grants the power only to Congress to write our nation's laws. Rescinding this abuse of executive power is a win for the American people, the Constitution, and the rule of law. Our nation’s immigration laws need to be improved, but Congress has the sole authority – not the President – to listen to the American people and write the law.” Background: • Before taking executive action on immigration, President Obama stated 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own. On November 20, 2014, President Obama announced unilateral changes to the nation’s immigration laws, allowing potentially millions of unlawful immigrants to stay in the United States without a vote of Congress. • In December 2014, 26 states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte took the lead in getting more members of the House to sign an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. • On February 17, 2015, a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. • Following this decision, Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of United States v. Texas. • On November 10, 2015, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented. Following this decision, the Supreme Court announced that it would take up the case. • On March 17, 2016, the House, with Chairman Goodlatte’s support, approved H. Res. 639, a resolution allowing the Speaker to file a brief on behalf of the whole House of Representatives defending Congress’ Article I powers to write our nation’s laws. Click here to watch Goodlatte’s floor speech on H. Res. 639. The House filed its brief on April 4, 2016. • On June 23, 2016, the Supreme Court effectively blocked President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented for the remainder of the Obama Administration, allowing a lower court ruling to stand. • Click here to read Goodlatte’s November 2014 op-ed in the Wall Street Journal on the unconstitutionality of President Obama’s unilateral actions.
06.14.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released a statement following the incident earlier this morning in Alexandria: “This morning’s tragic incident has reverberated throughout the Capitol. My prayers are with Congressman Steve Scalise, a good friend, and all of those injured in this vicious attack. I ask that you also lift them up in your prayers. I thank the law enforcement officers who stand guard over the Capitol complex and protect Members of Congress, our staff, and visitors each day. I will continue to monitor this situation as more information comes available."
06.13.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved S. 1094, the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. This bipartisan legislation, which was recently passed by the Senate, now heads to President Trump’s desk for his signature. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of S. 1094: “Accountability at the VA is needed to ensure America’s veterans receive quality care. While the vast majority of VA employees are dedicated to serving America’s veterans, the misdeeds of a few bad actors continue to outshine their good work. Time and time again we’ve heard stories of veterans being turned away from care, waiting too long to see a doctor, or being a victim to negligence. Under a culture fostered by a lack of accountability, VA employees have come to work under the influence, misused government purchase cards, and committed armed robbery, but federal civil service protections have made it nearly impossible to remove them from their jobs. In some cases, employees who have engaged in concerning behavior have even received bonuses! “The legislation passed today gives Secretary Shulkin more flexibility to discipline or remove employees and executives who have failed to serve our veterans. It also strengthens whistleblower protections for those seeking to shine a light on abuses within the VA system. Similar legislation previously passed the House with my support, and I am pleased both the House and Senate have finally come together to send this legislation to President Trump’s desk to become law. Our American heroes deserve nothing short of excellence. We must continue our work to modernize the VA and ensure that America’s veterans receive the best care we can provide.”
06.08.2017	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on passage of the Financial CHOICE Act (H.R. 10) by the U.S. House of Representatives: “Virginia businesses need access to capital to grow and create jobs. For many folks, this means working with a small community bank or credit union. However, much of the red tape created by Dodd-Frank, the massive finance law put into place by the Obama Administration, is holding these financial institutions back. In fact, it is estimated that under Dodd-Frank the United States is losing, on average, one community bank or credit union each day. Instead of helping folks access the capital they need, Dodd-Frank has made it more difficult by piling on the red tape all while failing to hold Wall Street accountable and protect consumers. I’ve heard from small financial institutions in the Sixth District that Dodd-Frank’s policies only increase the cost of credit and that no one is helped by these rules – only hurt. “The Financial CHOICE Act puts Main Street first. This legislation levels the playing field by eliminating the onerous regulations that are holding back job creators and stifling access to credit and capital. Unlike Dodd-Frank, the CHOICE Act finally ends taxpayer-funded bailouts and ‘too big to fail.’ It also repeals the Department of Labor’s fiduciary rule that makes it harder for Americans to save for retirement. The CHOICE Act is just one more way that the House is working to grow America’s economy and create opportunity for hardworking Americans.”
06.08.2017	Today, Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 2826). The bill reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below on the introduction of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: “The United States has a generous refugee program that has provided millions of people fleeing persecution with a safe home. We must maintain our nation’s generosity but also need to improve the refugee program to prevent fraud and thwart terrorists from exploiting the system to gain entry to the United States. “The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act makes a number of reforms to the refugee program to curb fraud, strengthen national security and public safety, and restore integrity to the program. Notably, it enhances screening and establishes thorough vetting procedures to identify fraud and potential security risks. Administration officials have stated that roughly 300 people who came to the U.S. as refugees are under active investigation by the FBI for potential terrorism-related offenses. We have an obligation to the American people to beef up vetting procedures for those seeking to come here. I thank Representative Labrador for his work on this bill and look forward to moving it through the House Judiciary Committee soon.” Key Components of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: Places the refugee ceiling in Congress’ hands—not the President’s: • The bill sets the refugee ceiling at 50,000 per year. It allows the President to recommend a revision of the ceiling number and Congress can choose to act on that recommendation. • The bill prevents the President from admitting additional refugees without Congress’ approval. Empowers state and local communities: • Currently, states or localities that do not want refugees resettled within their communities have no recourse. The bill remedies this issue and prevents the resettlement of refugees in any state or locality that takes legislative or executive action disapproving resettlement within their jurisdiction. Enhances integrity of refugee program and curbs fraud: • It requires that when processing refugee applications from countries listed as “Countries of Particular Concern” in the annual report of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, claims/applications that are based on religious persecution and are made by individuals who practice minority religions in such countries, are prioritized. • The bill requires termination of refugee status if a resettled refugee returns to the country from which they fled, absent a change in country conditions. • It requires the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to implement a fraudulent document detection program for refugee processing, including the placement of Fraud Detection and National Security officials at initial refugee screening, and the creation of a searchable database of scanned and categorized documents submitted by potential refugees at initial screening. • It provides for regular security vetting of each admitted refugee until the refugee adjusts immigration status to lawful permanent resident. • Within one year of the bill becoming law, all U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) interviews, performed during USCIS circuit rides and done with the assistance of an interpreter, are to be recorded and DHS must review a random selection of 20% of the recordings to ensure that the interpreter correctly interpreted the interview. If an interpreter is found to have incorrectly interpreted the interview, the interpreter cannot serve as an interpreter for immigration purposes. • The bill requires USCIS to review publicly available Internet postings, including social media, for each applicant. Strengthens public safety and national security: • The bill prevents the Secretary of DHS from unilaterally waiving most grounds of inadmissibility, including criminal convictions, for refugees. • It also prevents the DHS Secretary from waiving most grounds of inadmissibility and deportability, including criminal grounds, for refugees attempting to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident. • The bill requires the Government Accountability Office to issue a report on the security of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (including the screening and processing procedures); the number of refugees who have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses since 2006; and the use of federally-funded benefit programs by refugees resettled in the United States.
06.07.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement praising the Department of Justice’s decision to prohibit the use of third party settlements: “Over the last few years, the House Judiciary Committee has conducted an extensive investigation into the Obama Administration’s mortgage lending settlements. We have found that the Department of Justice was systematically subverting Congress’s spending power by requiring settling parties to donate money to activist groups. “The practice is wrong no matter which party is in power. Attorney General Session’s integrity stands in stark contrast to the behavior of Obama Administration officials who used their position to funnel billions of settlement dollars to their political allies. The Committee is examining stunning evidence showing that contrary to its sworn testimony, the Obama Justice Department went out of its way to keep settlement funds from going to conservative non-profits. “I am proud of the work the House Judiciary Committee has done to shine a bright light on this troubling practice and I commend Attorney General Sessions for his commitment to restoring accountability to the Department of Justice.” Background: Earlier this year, Chairman Goodlatte introduced the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2017 (H.R. 732).This bill bars the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other government agencies, from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of their settlement agreements with the federal government. The legislation passed the House Judiciary Committee on February 7, 2017, by a vote of 17-8 and is the same legislation that passed the House of Representatives in the 114th Congress. Here are additional details on the Committee’s investigation: • An investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees revealed that, in approximately just two years, the Obama Administration’s DOJ used mandatory donations to direct nearly a billion dollars to activist groups. • These payments occurred entirely outside of the Congressional appropriations and oversight process. • The House Judiciary Committee held two hearings, in February 2015 and May 2015, to question DOJ officials regarding these troubling settlement practices. • The Committees also sent multiple oversight letters including two to DOJ (in November 2014 and May 2015) seeking documents and answers. • The information provided confirms that activist groups which stood to gain from mandatory donation provisions were involved in placing those provisions in the settlements. • This bill is identical to the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016. A legislative hearing on that bill was held on May 28, 2016 within the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law. • The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063) passed the House by a vote of 241-174 on September 9, 2016. • The House Judiciary Committee sent a letter to the DOJ on January 11, 2017, requesting a preservation of all documents related to DOJ’s settlement practices. • The investigation is ongoing.
06.07.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved, by voice vote, Congressman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) resolution, H. Con. Res. 33, to congressionally designate the George C. Marshall Museum and the George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Va., as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library. H. Con. Res. 33 is co-sponsored by the entire Virginia delegation in the House of Representatives. The resolution was also introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Tim Kaine. Congressman Bob Goodlatte: “It is only fitting that the House pass this resolution on the week of the 70th anniversary of Marshall’s speech at Harvard University where he proposed the comprehensive foreign assistance program that would later be coined as the Marshall Plan. General Marshall’s leadership changed the world, and without his service and contributions the United States, and for that fact the world, would surely be a different place. His legacy is well-known in the Sixth Congressional District and the City of Lexington – home to his alma mater, Virginia Military Institute. I am pleased that the House passed this resolution, and I urge the Senate to take up this resolution as well and officially recognize General Marshall’s place in history.” Dr. Rob Havers, President of the George C. Marshall Foundation: “We are delighted to be recognized as the ‘national’ Marshall Museum and Library, a recognition that underscores our position as the home of Marshall’s legacy and also serves to affirm that Marshall continues to serve as an inspiration for the 21st century more than 50 years after his death.” Background: H. Con. Res. 33 is an honorary designation and will result in no cost to American taxpayers. The George C. Marshall Foundation was established in 1953 and officially opened in 1964 on the post of Virginia Military Institute, General Marshall’s alma mater. Since 1964, the Foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the important contributions of General Marshall through its Museum and Research Library. Similar legislation introduced by Congressman Goodlatte, H. Con. Res. 138, was passed in the 114th Congress by the House of Representatives. Congressman Goodlatte spoke on the House Floor in support of the resolution. Click here for the video. Below are Goodlatte’s remarks, as prepared: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of H. Con. Res. 33. This resolution would designate the George C. Marshall Museum and the George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library. It is only fitting that we consider this resolution on the week of the 70th anniversary of George C. Marshall’s speech at Harvard University—where he proposed a comprehensive foreign assistance program, later coined as the Marshall Plan, to help rebuild the war-torn and devastated economies in Western Europe after World War II. General George Catlett Marshall dedicated his life to public service – serving honorably in the United States Army, as Army Chief of Staff during World War II, Special Ambassador to China, Secretary of State, and Secretary of Defense. From his allied plan to storm the beaches of Normandy to the Marshall Plan, his leadership changed the world. The history of the United States and the global community would be a different place if not for the contributions of General Marshall. At the recommendation of former President Harry Truman, the Marshall Foundation was established in 1953. On May 23, 1964, the Marshall Museum and Library was dedicated on the post of the Virginia Military Institute – General Marshall’s alma mater. For over 50 years, the Marshall Foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the important contributions of General Marshall. The museum has five extensive exhibits and houses General Marshall’s 1953 Nobel Peace Prize. The Research Library collects, preserves, and shares the largest collection of documents pertaining to General Marshall’s life. Just last year, the Marshall Foundation reached a huge milestone with the completion of the Papers of George Catlett Marshall. This project began in 1977 with the goal to create a published record of every document that General Marshall produced. The final project consists of seven volumes and includes 4,260 documents spanning over 5,666 pages. In addition to its extensive research work, the Marshall Foundation provides educational opportunities for college students and future military leaders. The Marshall Undergraduate Scholars Program sends college history students to the Marshall Foundation to conduct primary research in the library’s archives. The Marshall Army ROTC Award Seminar also provides the top ROTC cadet at each college in the United States the opportunity to participate in a national security conference with fellow award recipients and current army leaders. The Marshall-Arnold Air Force ROTC Award Seminar provides a similar opportunity to top senior cadets at each college with an Air Force ROTC program. Two years ago, the Marshall Foundation began the Marshall Legacy Series. This multi-year series of exhibits, lectures, and events to showcase General Marshall’s contributions during the 20th century and connects those contributions to today’s world. This is just a snapshot of the important work the Marshall Foundation conducts to honor and preserve the legacy of General Marshall. I am honored to have such a distinguished institution in my district, the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia. General Marshall once said, “Sincerity, integrity and tolerance are, to my mind, the first requirements of many to a fine, strong character.” I applaud the Marshall Foundation’s work in sharing Marshall’s vision and character with a new generation of Americans. I urge passage of this resolution to honor one of America’s most sincere and distinguished public servants by congressionally designating the museum and library in Lexington, Virginia as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library.
06.01.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after the announcement today by President Donald J. Trump that the United States will withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement: “Today’s decision to exit the Paris Climate Agreement was the right move. I have had concerns from the beginning that this agreement was never ratified by the Senate, failing to get the scrutiny of the People’s elected representatives and flouting our constitutional treaty approval process. Additionally, the agreement puts significant burdens on the United States while we have already taken substantial steps in reducing CO2 emissions in our country. We all want a healthy environment to pass down to the next generation, and we should continue to work toward this goal on the international front in a way that preserves both the American economy and the environment.”
05.26.2017	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Agriculture Committee Chairman K. Michael Conaway (R-Texas) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions calling for a review of the legal theory underlying the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) decision to prosecute a California court case alleging violations under the Clean Water Act (CWA) – directly related to both the statutory exemptions for farming and the Obama Administration’s waters of the U.S. (WOTUS) rule. The letter requests information about DOJ’s process for prosecuting violations of the CWA, citing specific concerns about the case of Duarte Nursery v. Army Corps of Engineers. In the letter, the chairmen note Congressional concerns that the theory underlying the prosecution is “not consistent with legislative intent behind the farming exemptions under the CWA.” The letter also seeks to clarify whether a legislative fix is required to protect farmers, such as California farmer John Duarte, from similar prosecution in the future. Chairman Goodlatte: “The regulatory overreach of the previous administration is having a negative impact on the lives of hardworking Americans. Congress made its intentions of how the Clean Water Act was to be applied for the health and safety of Americans, but the Obama Administration has twisted law to serve a political agenda. We will work with President Trump and the new administration to reverse Obama-era regulations that are hurting American farmers, as well as other industries, and private citizens alike.” Chairman Conaway: “Mr. Duarte’s case clearly highlights the need to keep the federal government out of America’s backyards, fields and ditches. Little-by-little we watched the previous administration chip away at the rights of land and property-owners, aiming to expand its authority through broad new rules under WOTUS, all while providing little clarity to farmers and ranchers about what qualifies for exemptions. Our letter aims to work with the new administration to better define current interpretations of both WOTUS and farming exemptions so we can begin to set new rules of the road that will protect our farmers and ranchers from onerous fines, penalties and regulations.” Background: Mr. Duarte’s case stems from a February 2013 U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the Corps) allegation that the vernal pools on Mr. Duarte’s land are considered WOTUS, thus subject to CWA authority. The Corps argued that based on inconsistent agriculture production patterns on Mr. Duarte’s land prior to his purchase in 2012 he did not qualify for farming exemptions and had violated the CWA when he plowed his field in late 2012. Full text of the letter is available below. May 26, 2017 The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions: As Chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture and Chairman of the House Committee on the Judiciary (“Committees”), we have been following the case of Duarte Nursery v. Army Corps of Engineers very closely. As you may know, the interpretations of the Clean Water Act (CWA) and its farming exemptions are critical to farmers and ranchers across the nation and, thus, are of particular interest to the Agriculture Committee, especially given the Committee’s jurisdiction over agriculture generally. The Judiciary Committee’s oversight responsibilities include ensuring that the Justice Department enforces the law as Congress intended. The prosecution of Mr. Duarte raises concerns that the Congressional intent behind the farming exemptions in the statute is misunderstood. Specifically, it is the Agriculture Committee’s view that even occasional farm activities, including grazing, qualify as “normal” farming under the statutory exemption, and also are part of an established operation for purposes of the exemption. Further, it is the Committee’s view that the activity at issue in this case constitute plowing for the purposes of the exemption. To better understand the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) process for prosecuting potential violations of the CWA and in order to determine whether or not legislation is required to correct potential misinterpretations of the law, the Committees request the following information: • What does the DOJ consider in determining whether or not to prosecute a violation of the CWA? • Is it appropriate to seek reduced penalties where the alleged violation is based on a novel or strained interpretation of the underlying statutory authority? • Have there been any cases where DOJ has entered into contingent settlements pending an appeal of a CWA case? If so, please describe the circumstances of those cases. • Has DOJ ever declined on appeal to advance CWA arguments that were successful at the district court level? If so, please describe the circumstances of those cases.
05.25.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued a letter today urging the Department of Justice (DOJ) to address misuse of the Judgment Fund by the Obama Administration. The letter to Attorney General Jeff Sessions cites a New York Times exposé detailing how the previous administration funneled over one billion dollars from the Judgment Fund to special interest groups aligned with the political priorities of the Obama White House. A recent ruling by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit has created an opportunity for Attorney General Sessions to “claw back $380 million for taxpayers” and reverse what was an Obama Administration “engineered windfall for special interests masquerading as a settlement,” and paid for out of the Judgment Fund. Funded by taxpayer dollars, the Judgment Fund was originally set up to provide an efficient mechanism for the federal government to settle its “just debts” to injured parties. However, as an open-ended appropriation, the fund is ripe for misuse. Chairman Goodlatte called the misuse of hard-earned taxpayer dollars to funnel money to third-party groups “an abuse of the discretion that Congress granted DOJ in creating the Judgment Fund.” Click here to read the full text: The Honorable Jeff Sessions Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Sessions, In 2013, a shocking New York Times exposé revealed that the Obama Administration bilked over a billion dollars from the taxpayer-funded Judgment Fund and handed it to special interests. Now, the Trump Administration may have an opportunity to claw back $380 million for taxpayers, but it must act fast. The vehicles for this giveaway were parallel, weak cases alleging bias by the Department of Agriculture. As told by the Times, in 2010, after a decade of fighting a discrimination class action, “Justice Department lawyers seemed to have victory within their grasp.” A “succession of courts — and finally the Supreme Court” had rebuffed the plaintiffs. But then, “political appointees . . . engineered a stunning turnabout: they committed $1.33 billion to compensate . . . thousands of Hispanic and female farmers who had never claimed bias in court.” According to the Times investigation, the deal “was fashioned in White House meetings despite the vehement objections . . . of career lawyers . . . who had argued that there was no credible evidence of widespread discrimination.” The government’s statistical expert from UC Berkeley told the Times regarding the parallel Keepseagle case, “[i]f they had gone to trial, the government would have prevailed . . . . It was just a joke . . . . I was so disgusted. It was simply buying the support of the Native-Americans.” The plaintiffs’ lawyers in Keepseagle were compensated based on the size of the purported settling class. The plaintiffs’ lawyers self-servingly estimated that there were 19,000 claimants; the government predicted 5,300. Nevertheless, the government entered into a settlement based on the estimate of the plaintiffs’ lawyers. As a result, plaintiffs’ attorneys collected $60.8 million in fees. Just a year before, the lead plaintiffs’ attorney, Joseph Sellers, had served on President Obama’s 2008 transition team. In the end, there were just 4,400 claimants – fewer than even the government had estimated – and $380 million left over. This was taxpayer money, but instead of demanding it back, DOJ agreed to direct it to non-victim third-parties. This troubled the presiding judge: $380,000,000 of taxpayer funds is set to be distributed inefficiently to third-party groups that had no legal claim against the government. Although a $380,000,000 donation by the federal government to charities . . . might well be in the public interest, the Court doubts that the judgment fund from which this money came was intended to serve such a purpose. The public would do well to ask why $380,000,000 is being spent in such a manner. In a May 16, 2017 decision, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected a private party’s challenge to this payment. However, in a dissent, one of the judges provided a roadmap for the Trump Administration to recover the money: [T]he Justice Department should consider a motion under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b)(4) to strike the cy pres provisions within the settlement agreement as void. . . . [The motion] is not subject to the finite time constraints restricting other Rule 60(b) motions. . . . This should not affect the settlement agreement’s applicability between the class members and the United States . . . . The Justice Department can argue . . . that the Executive Branch lacked the constitutional and statutory authority to enter into these cy pres provisions. It cannot be required to continue to ask the judiciary to approve and police a cy pres distribution scheme that violates the Appropriations Clause and Article III limitations. The opinion closed with the observation that the “conduct of those in this case proves how little the Constitution will matter when good character ceases to be informed by adherence to one’s oath of office, and is primarily defined by how generous you are willing to be with someone else’s money.” These settlements were an abuse of the discretion that Congress granted DOJ in creating the Judgment Fund. The Obama Justice Department disrespected millions of American taxpayers by blithely spending their hard-earned dollars on a Department-engineered windfall for special interests masquerading as a settlement. I ask that you consider whether the Keepseagle case presents an opportunity to reverse some of the damage wrought by your predecessors.
05.25.2017	This week, the House of Representatives passed eight bills to fight child abuse and exploitation and bring perpetrators to justice. These bills are products of the House Judiciary Committee and enjoy broad bipartisan support. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the House of Representatives’ action to protect our nation’s children: “I applaud the House of Representatives for taking strong, bipartisan action to protect our nation’s children. Every child deserves to have a safe childhood, but sadly this is not the case for too many of our nation’s kids. Children are among the most innocent and vulnerable among us and merit the highest protection of the law. The bills approved by the House this week will provide law enforcement the tools they need to prevent child abuse and bring those who harm these little ones to justice. I thank the many Members who worked hard on these bills and urge the Senate to take them up without delay.” Below is a summary of the bills approved by the House this week. The Child Protection Improvements Act (H.R. 695): Introduced by Representatives Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.) and approved by voice vote, this bill ensures that youth-serving organizations have access to national background checks on prospective staff and volunteers through the FBI’s database. Currently, many youth-serving organizations only have access to state-level background check systems. The Targeting Child Predators Act (H.R. 883): This bill, authored by Representative Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) and approved by voice vote, helps protect valuable information used to prosecute and convict child predators. Under current law, law enforcement is able to obtain the IP address of a suspected child predator and then subpoena Internet Service Providers (ISPs) for the user information attached to the IP address. However, the provider then may notify the user of the law enforcement inquiry, allowing the alleged child predator to destroy critical evidence. Under H.R. 883, ISPs must wait 180 days before notifying customers in child predator cases, where law enforcement has certified that such notification would endanger a person, cause the destruction of or tampering with evidence, cause flight from prosecution, or cause the intimidation of a potential witness. The bill also allows ISPs to challenge a nondisclosure requirement in court. The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act (H.R. 1188): This bill, authored by Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and approved by voice vote, reauthorizes the two primary programs of the Adam Walsh Act—the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act and the Sex Offender Management Assistance Program—for five years and makes targeted changes to make the system more efficient and just. These programs help prevent child abuse by ensuring the public has access to information on known sex offenders who may live in their neighborhoods. The Strengthening Children’s Safety Act (H.R. 1842): Authored by Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) and approved by a vote of 371-30, this bill makes communities safer by enhancing penalties for sex offenders who fail to register in the national sex offender registry and then commit a crime of violence. It also ensures enhanced penalties for child exploitation crimes apply equally to all dangerous sex offenders by assuring those convicted of certain sex offenses under the Uniform Code of Military Justice are subject to the enhanced penalties applicable to recidivists under current law. The Global Child Protection Act (H.R. 1862): Authored by Representative Martha Roby (R-Ala.) and approved by a vote of 372-30, the legislation combats global sex tourism by closing loopholes that allow child predators to go unpunished for their abuse of children overseas. Specifically, the bill expands the conduct covered for child sexual exploitation cases that involve abuse occurring abroad to include sexual contact. It also broadens the offenses covered in the recidivist enhancement provisions in current law to protect the youngest of child victims. The Put Trafficking Victims First Act (H.R. 2473): There is an important need across the country to ensure that trafficking victims are perceived and treated as victims of crime, and afforded the same justice, rights, protections, and dignity that other crime victims receive. Authored by Representative Ann Wagner (R-Mo.) and approved by voice vote, the Put Trafficking Victims First Act, among other purposes, provides training to prosecutors on investigating and processing cases with a trauma-informed and victim-centered approach, and encourages states to provide appropriate services to victims of trafficking. The bill also calls for reports on the implementation of state safe harbor provisions and on how to improve mandatory restitution procedures for victims of trafficking in federal courts. The Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act (H.R. 1761): Authored by Representative Mike Johnson (R-La.) and approved by a vote of 368-51, the bill protects child pornography victims by remedying a federal court ruling in United States v. Palomino-Coronado. This decision allowed a defendant to walk free from production of child pornography charges, despite photographic evidence that he had engaged in sexual abuse of a seven-year-old child, because the court found that he lacked the specific intent to produce child pornography prior to abusing the child. To address this loophole in the law, the Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act adds additional bases of liability to the crime of child pornography production to prevent this heinous crime and bring criminals to justice. The Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act (H.R 1973): Sponsored by Representative Susan Brooks (R-Ind.) and approved by a vote of 415-3, this legislation requires prompt reporting of suspected cases of abuse, mandatory training, and implementation of policies and procedures for preventing, reporting, and addressing allegations of sexual abuse at amateur athletic governing bodies. It responds to recent allegations of sexual abuse made against personnel involved with USA Gymnastics, USA Swimming, and USA Taekwondo. For more on the House Judiciary Committee’s work to combat child abuse and exploitation, click here.
05.24.2017	The House Judiciary Committee today approved the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 2431) by a vote of 19-13. This bill, introduced by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), strengthens immigration enforcement, enhances public safety, protects national security, and ensures the rule of law. The Davis-Oliver Act, named after Placer County Detective Michael Davis, Jr. and Sacramento County Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver who were murdered by an unlawful immigrant in October 2014, improves the enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws to enhance public safety. The bill provides tools to crack down on dangerous sanctuary city policies and contains much needed changes to protect American communities from unlawful immigrants who commit crimes in the United States. The Davis-Oliver Act also protects national security by improving our nation’s first line of defense, the visa issuance process. It provides thorough screening of foreign nationals seeking to enter the United States in order to prevent terrorists from entering the United States. The bill also ensures the rule of law and removes the ability of any President to unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement by granting states and localities the authority to enforce their own immigration laws consistent with federal practices. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below on today’s Committee approval of the Davis-Oliver Act: “The Davis-Oliver Act delivers on our responsibility to ensure that immigration reform starts with enforcement. Enforcing our laws now will deter future illegal immigration. Furthermore, while most unlawful immigrants come to the U.S. seeking a better life for themselves and their families, there are too many others who commit crimes against Americans. Many families across the United States who have lost loved ones due to lax immigration enforcement – such as the Steinle, Root, and Wilkerson families – have testified before the House Judiciary Committee. We have a duty to them and to all Americans to provide the tools necessary to strengthen public safety and the rule of law. “While the Trump Administration has made great progress in enforcing our nation’s immigration laws, a number of statutory changes are needed. The Davis-Oliver Act contains many tools to enhance the safety of our communities, such as cracking down on sanctuary jurisdictions that needlessly jeopardize Americans’ lives. It also ensures that no future administration can unilaterally stop the enforcement of our immigration laws. I thank Representative Labrador for introducing this much needed bill and urge House Leadership to bring it up for a vote soon.” A summary of the Davis-Oliver Act can be found here.
05.23.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that Katy Simmons, a 2017 graduate of Buffalo Gap High School, is the winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Her acrylic painting, Katy’s Ride, will be featured in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of a display of artwork by high school artists from across the nation. Katy resides in Mt. Solon and is the daughter of Carlton and Kathy Simmons. She plans to attend Eastern Mennonite University in the fall and will play softball. Katy’s art teacher at Buffalo Gap High School was Elizabeth Williams. Goodlatte: “The talent of young artists in the Sixth District has always impressed me, and this year’s entries were another great representation of creativity and skill. I am pleased to announce that Katy Simmons, a recent graduate of Buffalo Gap High School, is the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition winner! Katy’s artwork captures something simple from her everyday life and turns it into a work of art using beautiful colors and her own unique point of view. I look forward to this painting representing our part of Virginia in the U.S. Capitol. Congratulations, Katy! Thank you to every student who participated in the Congressional Art Competition as well as the teachers and parents encouraging them to learn more about art and test out their own talents.” The 2017 runners-up are Caleb Jones, a student at Ridgeview Christian School in Stuarts Draft; Nora Florio, a student at E.C. Glass High School in Lynchburg; and, Tingjia Tao, a student at Massanutten Military Academy in Woodstock. Their artwork will be on display in the Staunton, Lynchburg, and Harrisonburg offices respectively.
05.23.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) today introduced the United States Secret Service Reauthorization Act of 2017 (H.R. 2605) to provide the agency the tools it needs for its critical mission of protecting the President, other protectees, and the White House complex. It also enhances Secret Service agents’ training and improves transparency and accountability at the agency. This bill will be marked up by the House Judiciary Committee on Wednesday, May 24, 2017. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below on the introduction of the Secret Service Reauthorization Act: “The Secret Service is comprised of many outstanding and upstanding men and women who do excellent work every day. However, the Secret Service has faced a number of challenges in recent years. Newly-appointed Secret Service Director Alles is bringing the leadership and experience needed to reform the agency, but it is also clear that statutory changes are needed to improve the agency and deliver necessary resources. “The Secret Service Reauthorization Act provides a number of critical tools to ensure the Secret Service has the resources needed to keep the President and other protectees safe from harm. It also enhances agents’ training at the Secret Service in order to meet the growing demands placed on the agency. I look forward to taking this bill up in the House Judiciary Committee this week.” Key Components of the Secret Service Reauthorization Act of 2017 Strengthens Security • Clarifies that it is a federal crime to knowingly cause, with the intent to impede or disrupt the orderly conduct of Government business or official functions, any object to enter restricted buildings or grounds, including the White House and the Vice President’s residence. • Permits Secret Service agents to protect presidential candidates at polling places. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate the use of additional weaponry, including non-lethal weapons. • Amends current law to permit the Secret Service to investigate threats against former Vice Presidents. • Requires the Secret Service to devise and implement procedures for evaluating threats to the White House and its protectees, including threats from drones and explosives, and to report to Congress its findings. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate its technology at the White House, including ways that technology can be used to improve safety at the White House. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate how it retains evidence and to report its findings to Congress. • Amends the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 by enabling the Secret Service to make necessary security upgrades to secondary residences by eliminating the $200,000 cumulative cap previously imposed on spending to secure a protectee’s secondary residences, and requires notification to the Committees on Appropriations of any security enhancements made to secondary residences in lieu of a bicameral resolution. Enhances Agents’ Training • Directs the Secret Service to increase the number of hours spent training, and directs it to provide joint training between Uniformed Division officers and Special Agents. Improves Transparency and Accountability • Requires the Director of the U.S. Secret Service to be Senate confirmed. • Contains a Sense of Congress that determinations by the Department of Homeland Security or the Secret Service regarding changes to the White House itself for protection reasons should be given significant deference with the many entities that have a role in approving such changes, including the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts.
05.22.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in the TC Heartland v. Kraft Foods Group Brands case: “I applaud the Supreme Court’s unanimous decision to restore reasonable limits on where patent lawsuits can be brought. This decision will help rein in abusive forum shopping, and restores our nation’s patent venue laws to ensure that cases are brought in judicial districts that have a reasonable connection to the dispute. “Following today’s decision, I look forward to continuing discussions with stakeholders on other aspects of abusive patent litigation and how we keep our patent laws up to date to ensure a well-functioning patent system.” Background: The House Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over patents. In past Congresses, Congressman Goodlatte has introduced the Innovation Act to address the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation.
05.19.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Probation Officer Protection Act of 2017 (H.R. 1039), introduced by Congressman David Reichert (R-Wash.), by a vote of 229-177. This bill, which is a product of the House Judiciary Committee, protects public safety by giving probation officers the authority, while in the performance of their official duties, to arrest a person if there is probable cause to believe that the person has forcibly assaulted, resisted, opposed, impeded, intimidated, or interfered with the probation officer, or a fellow probation officer, in the performance of his or her duties. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on today’s House vote: “Probation officers have an inherently dangerous job as they carry out their responsibilities every day. The Probation Officer Protection Act is a common sense bill to ensure that these dedicated men and women have the necessary authorities to undertake their duties safely and effectively. Congressman Reichert should be commended for his leadership on this legislation, and I urge the Senate to take up this bill so that we enhance the safety of both the public and probation officers.”
05.18.2017	Today, the House of Representatives passed the Thin Blue Line Act (H.R. 115), authored by Representative Vern Buchanan (R-Fla.), by a vote of 271-143. This legislation adds the murder of a state or local police officer as an aggravating factor for a jury to consider in deciding whether to impose the death penalty in federal capital cases. The murder of a federal law enforcement officer is already an aggravating factor under current law. The legislation sends a simple message that the stalking and killing of law enforcement officers must not and will not be tolerated. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on today’s House vote: “Every day, federal, state, and local law enforcement officers around the country protect their fellow citizens from harm, keep the peace, and carry out justice. They serve every day, often with little to no recognition or support. From Seattle to Dallas to New York City, in recent years, police officers have laid down their lives in the service of their communities. Sadly, 50 police officers have died in the line of duty already this year. “As our nation’s police officers serve and protect us every day, we have a duty to honor their sacrifices and ensure those who harm them are brought to justice. The Thin Blue Line Act accomplishes this, and I thank Congressman Buchanan for his work on this important bill.” For Goodlatte’s floor remarks on the Thin Blue Line Act, click here.
05.18.2017	Adding to the House Judiciary Committee’s work to protect children from exploitation and abuse, the Committee today approved two bills to protect young athletes from sexual abuse and provide victim-centered support to survivors of human trafficking. Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee approval of these two bills: “The federal government’s most important duties are to keep Americans safe and carry out justice. Children are the most innocent and vulnerable among us and warrant the strongest protection of the law. The bills approved by the House Judiciary Committee today provide a number of tools to prevent and combat sexual abuse of young athletes and fight the ongoing scourge of human trafficking. I thank Congresswomen Brooks and Wagner for their work on these bills and look forward to the House voting on these bills and others soon.” The Committee first approved the Protecting Young Victims from Sexual Abuse Act (H.R 1973), sponsored by Representative Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), by voice vote. This legislation requires prompt reporting of suspected cases of abuse, mandatory training, and implementation of policies and procedures for preventing, reporting, and addressing allegations of sexual abuse at amateur athletic governing bodies. It responds to recent allegations of sexual abuse made against personnel involved with USA Gymnastics, USA Swimming, and USA Taekwondo. “As a former U.S. Attorney, I worked on cases dealing with child exploitation and abuse, and I know first-hand how absolutely necessary it is that our laws protect the most vulnerable,” said Representative Brooks. “Unfortunately, current law neglects to properly protect young athletes from abuse, but this legislation ensures that amateur athletic governing bodies promptly report allegations of sexual abuse and assault. I thank Chairman Goodlatte for bringing this bill before the Judiciary Committee, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senator Feinstein to pass this bill in to law.” The Committee also approved the Put Trafficking Victims First Act (H.R. 2473), authored by Representative Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), by voice vote. There is an important need across the country to ensure that trafficking victims are perceived and treated as victims of crime, and afforded the same justice, rights, protections, and dignity that other crime victims receive. The legislation approved by the Committee today, among other purposes, provides training to prosecutors on investigating and processing cases with a trauma-informed and victim-centered approach, and encourages states to provide appropriate services to victims of trafficking. The bill also calls for reports on the implementation of state safe harbor provisions and on how to improve mandatory restitution procedures for victims of trafficking in federal courts. “I’ve met with countless victims of human trafficking and listened to their painful stories,” said Representative Wagner. “They need help to rebuild their lives and that’s what the Put Trafficking Victims First Act of 2017 does – improves support, identification, and services for victims of this horrific crime. “Additionally, this bill will enhance training for law enforcement, prosecutors and government agencies so they can better pursue justice and trauma-informed care for victims,” added Representative Wagner. “By better protecting children and survivors from being re-victimized and increasing education and awareness, we are putting victims first and helping them access the justice they need.”
05.17.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 984, the Thomasina E. Jordan Indian Tribes of Virginia Federal Recognition Act of 2017. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in support of H.R. 984: “The heritage and culture of Virginia’s Indian Tribes is an important piece of America’s history. One of these tribes, the Monacan Indian Nation, is headquartered in Amherst County, and the Tribe’s members have contributed greatly to the community. I am pleased that the House has taken action to extend federal recognition to these Tribes. “In considering this legislation, it was important to me to ensure that provisions within the bill cannot open the door to gambling on tribal lands in Virginia, and I am confident that H.R. 984 will prohibit these activities. I thank Congressman Rob Wittman for bringing this bipartisan bill before the House. I urge the Senate to take up this bill and extend long overdue federal recognition to these Tribes, including the Monacan Indian Nation.” Background: H.R. 984 will extend federal recognition to the Chickahominy Tribe, the Eastern Chickahominy Tribe, the Upper Mattaponi Tribe, the Rappahannock Tribe, the Monacan Indian Nation, and the Nansemond Indian Tribe. Bear Mountain in Amherst County is the tribal headquarters of the Monacan Indian Nation. While the Commonwealth of Virginia has officially recognized these Tribes since 1983, the federal government has not yet extended this recognition.
05.17.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the announcement that Former FBI Director Robert Mueller has been named as special counsel to oversee the FBI’s investigation of Russia’s efforts to influence the U.S. election: “Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein made the right decision by appointing a special counsel to oversee the FBI’s investigation of Russia’s efforts to influence our nation’s 2016 presidential election. Former Director Mueller is a well-respected law enforcement professional who served the FBI for a dozen years under both Democratic and Republican presidents. I am confident that he will serve with integrity and professionalism, and will conduct a thorough and fair investigation. “I applaud the Trump Administration for taking this important step that the previous Administration repeatedly declined to do in other matters, ensuring an independent and thorough investigation is conducted to unearth all the facts. This decision will help instill much needed public confidence in the investigation."
05.16.2017	Today, House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced a robust immigration enforcement bill to enhance public safety, protect national security, and ensure the rule of law. This bill, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 2431), will be marked up by the House Judiciary Committee on Thursday, May 18, 2017. The Davis-Oliver Act, named after Placer County Detective Michael Davis, Jr. and Sacramento County Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver who were murdered by an unlawful immigrant in October 2014, improves the enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws to enhance public safety. The bill provides tools to crack down on dangerous sanctuary city policies and contains much needed changes to protect American communities from unlawful immigrants who commit crimes in the United States. The Davis-Oliver Act also protects national security by improving our nation’s first line of defense, the visa issuance process. It provides thorough screening of foreign nationals seeking to enter the United States in order to prevent terrorists from entering the United States. The bill also ensures the rule of law and removes the ability of any President to unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement by granting states and localities the authority to enforce their own immigration laws consistent with federal practices. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement on the introduction of the Davis-Oliver Act: “Any immigration reform must start with enforcement. While most unlawful immigrants come to the U.S. seeking a better life for themselves and their families, there are too many others who commit crimes against Americans. Many families across the United States who have lost loved ones due to lax immigration enforcement have testified before the House Judiciary Committee. We have a duty to them and to all Americans to provide the tools necessary to strengthen public safety and the rule of law. “While the Trump Administration has made great progress in enforcing our nation’s immigration laws, a number of statutory changes are needed. The Davis-Oliver Act contains many tools to enhance the safety of our communities, such as cracking down on sanctuary jurisdictions that needlessly jeopardize Americans’ lives. It also ensures that no future administration can unilaterally stop the enforcement of our immigration laws. I thank Representative Labrador for introducing this much needed bill and look forward to taking it up in the House Judiciary Committee this week.” A summary of the Davis-Oliver Act can be found here. Bill text can be found here.
05.11.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today introduced two bills to authorize and reauthorize key immigration component agencies at the Department of Homeland Security to ensure our nation’s immigration laws are enforced, and maintain the generosity and integrity of America’s legal immigration system. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Authorization Act (H.R. 2406) authorizes ICE for the first time in law and ensures its core mission is the enforcement of our nation’s immigration laws. Notably, the bill makes targeted reforms to both Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) and Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) within ICE to maximize their efficiency and effectiveness. It also codifies the Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement Office (VOICE), an office created by the Trump Administration to provide access to information and resources to victims of crimes committed by removable aliens as well as to the families of victims. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2407) reauthorizes the agency, which is tasked with processing immigrant and nonimmigrant benefits petitions for those seeking temporary visas, lawful permanent residence, international adoption, and others. USCIS also adjudicates naturalization applications and manages the E-Verify system. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the following statement on the introduction of these bills. “The United States has a generous immigration system and has become home for millions of people seeking to live the American dream, grow our economy, and flee persecution. We have a duty to ensure our immigration laws are enforced, operate efficiently, and work in the national interest. Immigration and Customs Enforcement has never been authorized in the law, and it’s past time that we do so. My bill ensures a core mission of ICE is to enforce our immigration laws in order to protect public safety and national security, and to maintain the integrity of our immigration system. Additionally, the USCIS Reauthorization Act reauthorizes the agency and improves the agency’s mission. “In addition to reauthorizing these two agencies, we also need to make a number of changes to our laws to improve immigration enforcement and prevent fraud and abuse in the system. I look forward to bringing the ICE Authorization Act and the USCIS Reauthorization Act before the House Judiciary Committee in the coming weeks.” A summary of the ICE Authorization Act can be found here. Additionally, a summary of the USCIS Reauthorization Act can be found here.
05.09.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement regarding President Donald J. Trump’s dismissal of FBI Director James Comey: “The FBI is the premier law enforcement agency in the world and it is critical to have a director who holds the trust of the American people. It is clearly the President's prerogative to remove the FBI Director, as was recommended by the top two officials at the Department of Justice. “I would like to thank Director Comey for his many years of faithful service, and I look forward to working closely with the White House to identify a suitable successor as quickly as possible.”
05.04.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement regarding President Donald J. Trump’s executive order to protect First Amendment rights and liberties: “The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution ensures that we have the right to express our views and religious beliefs. Congress and the courts have made clear that the federal government must provide religious accommodations in our laws and protect our freedom of speech, and it is time for the federal government to enforce these protections. “Unfortunately, we’ve seen unprecedented discrimination by the federal bureaucracy in recent years against Americans who wish to live their lives according to their faith. Today’s executive order by President Trump on the National Day of Prayer is a welcomed step in the right direction to dismantle these unfair burdens. No American should live in fear of reprisal from the federal government based on what they believe.”
05.04.2017	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1628, the American Health Care Act (AHCA), by a vote of 217-213. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of the AHCA: “Obamacare is collapsing. Just yesterday, Aetna announced that it will leave Virginia’s Obamacare insurance marketplace, leaving 27 counties with only one insurer to pick from in 2018. Iowans are on the verge of having no insurers participating in the marketplace next year at all. In Arizona, insurance premiums are set to increase by more than 100 percent. From dwindling choices and higher premiums and deductibles to the loss of access to doctors, it’s easy to see why this mess of big government mandates and regulations has failed so many families. “The time to act is now. The American Health Care Act is Congress’ opportunity to fix the health insurance system and put patients back in charge of their health care. The AHCA expands health savings accounts, giving patients more options of how to spend and save their hard-earned money. This bill also protects life by blocking funding for Planned Parenthood and directing that funding instead to Community Health Centers, like the ones serving many communities in the Sixth District. And most importantly, despite what you’ve read online or heard on the news, under the AHCA no one can be denied coverage because of a pre-existing condition. In fact, new protections are included in the AHCA for these individuals. “The status quo cannot continue when we know that we as a nation can do better. I told my constituents that I would stand for them to repeal Obamacare, and I intend to keep that promise. Passing the American Health Care Act is the first step in repealing Obamacare and ensuring Americans have access to affordable health care.”
05.04.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General’s report on “DHS Tracking of Visa Overstays is Hindered by Insufficient Technology”: “Today’s report confirms once again that the issue of visa overstays is a problem and it has been for years. The fact is that visa overstays cannot be fully tracked without a biometric exit system. Visa security is a matter of national security, and it is imperative that we know who is coming to our country and when they leave so that we protect American citizens and our interests. To strengthen both national security and the integrity of our immigration system, Congress mandated a biometric entry-exit system over 20 years ago but administrations of both parties have failed to fully implement it. Fortunately, President Trump and his administration are fully committed to swiftly completing this much needed tracking system. I look forward to working with Secretary Kelly to ensure he has the tools needed to complete this long overdue system.” Background: President Trump’s executive order issued on March 6, 2017, “Protecting The Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into The United States,” directs to Secretary of Homeland Security to expedite the completion and implementation of a biometric entry-exit tracking system.
05.03.2017	Adding to the House Judiciary Committee’s work to protect children from exploitation and abuse, the Committee today approved a bill to combat child pornography and bring perpetrators to justice. The Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act (H.R. 1761), authored by Representative Mike Johnson (R-La.), was approved by voice vote. The bill protects child pornography victims by remedying a federal court ruling in United States v. Palomino-Coronado. This decision allowed a defendant to walk free from production of child pornography charges, despite photographic evidence that he had engaged in sexual abuse of a seven-year-old child, because the court found that he lacked the specific intent to produce child pornography prior to abusing the child. To address this loophole in the law, the Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act adds additional bases of liability to the crime of child pornography production to prevent this heinous crime and bring criminals to justice. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote: “Perpetrators who prey upon and exploit innocent children should be brought to justice for their monstrous crimes. Representative Mike Johnson’s bill ensures that criminals who produce child pornography are not able to escape the law. I thank him for his tireless work to protect our nation’s kids. The House Judiciary Committee has approved a series of bills to combat child abuse and exploitation, and I urge House Leadership to bring them up for a vote so that we have more tools to combat these horrific crimes.” Background: In addition to the approval of the Protecting Against Child Exploitation Act, the House Judiciary Committee has also approved the following bills at two separate markups. The Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act of 2017 (H.R. 1188): This bill, authored by Representative Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), reauthorizes the two primary programs of the Adam Walsh Act—the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act and Sex Offender Management Assistance Program—for five years and makes targeted changes to make the system more efficient and just. These programs help prevent child abuse by ensuring the public has access to information on known sex offenders who may live in their neighborhood. The Child Protection Improvements Act of 2017 (H.R. 695): Introduced by Representatives Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.), this bill ensures that youth-serving organizations have access to national background checks on prospective staff and volunteers through the FBI’s database. Currently, many youth-serving organizations only have access to state-level background check systems. The Targeting Child Predators Act of 2017 (H.R. 883): This bill, authored by Representative Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), helps protect valuable information used to prosecute and convict child predators. Under current law, law enforcement is able to obtain the IP address of a suspected child predator and then subpoena Internet Service Providers for the user information attached to the IP address. The provider then may notify the user of the law enforcement inquiry, allowing the alleged child predator to destroy critical evidence. Under H.R. 883, Internet Service Providers must wait 180 days before notifying customers in child predator cases, where law enforcement has certified that such notification would endanger a person, cause the destruction of or tampering with evidence, cause flight from prosecution, or cause the intimidation of a potential witness. The Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 (H.R. 1842): Authored by Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), this bill makes communities safer by enhancing penalties for sex offenders who fail to register in the national sex offender registry when they have a prior state conviction for a violent crime. It also ensures enhanced penalties for child exploitation crimes apply equally to all dangerous sex offenders. The Global Child Protection Act (H.R. 1862): Authored by Representative Martha Roby (R-Ala.), the legislation combats global sex tourism by closing loopholes that allow child predators to go unpunished for their abuse of children overseas. Specifically, the bill expands the conduct covered for child sexual exploitation cases that involve abuse occurring abroad to include sexual contact. It also broadens the offenses covered in the recidivist enhancement provisions in current law to protect the youngest of child victims.
04.26.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the opening of the new Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement Office (VOICE) at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement: “Decades of lax enforcement have wreaked havoc on American communities and innocent Americans from coast to coast have lost their lives at the hands of unlawful immigrants. Several of these victims’ family members have testified before the House Judiciary Committee and have spoken out about how the lack of enforcement has devastated their families. Under the Obama Administration, these victims’ voices were not acknowledged. “President Trump and his administration are reversing many of the Obama Administration’s disastrous immigration policies and are consistently enforcing the law. And through the creation of the Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement Office, the Trump Administration is committed to providing accurate and timely information to victims as their perpetrators face justice and are removed from the United States. I commend President Trump, Secretary Kelly, and Acting Director Homan for their commitment to helping victims of crimes committed by removable aliens and for giving them a voice in their government.” Background: Under Chairman Goodlatte’s leadership, the House Judiciary Committee has highlighted how illegal immigration is not a victimless crime and has repeatedly sought information on unlawful immigrants who have committed crimes in the United States. On April 19, 2016, two moms whose children were murdered by unlawful immigrants testified before the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee. They also spoke out in a video, calling for more immigration enforcement to protect Americans.
04.26.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement marking World Intellectual Property (IP) Day: “World Intellectual Property Day is a day to recognize the valuable contribution that intellectual property has brought to our nation. “Intellectual property industries are one of America’s chief job creators and competitive advantages in the global marketplace, creating millions of high-skilled, high-paying U.S. jobs and contributing billions to our economy. “As a steadfast guardian of intellectual property protections, the House Judiciary Committee continues to focus on protecting American innovation and creativity in an effort to create jobs, restore economic prosperity to America, and encourage the production of the books, songs, movies, and other works that enhance the quality of our daily lives. “With these goals in mind, the House Judiciary Committee is in the process of conducting a multi-year comprehensive review of U.S. copyright law to determine whether the laws are still working in the digital age. As technology continues to rapidly advance, we must ensure that our copyright system can keep pace. “Today the House is poised to pass the first legislative step resulting from the Committee’s copyright review. The bipartisan Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act makes important changes to the selection process for the head of the U.S. Copyright Office, known as the Register of Copyrights. “Following House passage of this legislation, we intend to turn to the other Copyright Office reforms contained in our first policy proposal. As our copyright review continues, we remained fully committed to working with all Members and stakeholders to ensure that these laws are working in the digital age to reward creativity and protect the rights of authors, artists, and creators.” Background: April 26, 2017 marks the 17th Annual World IP Day. This day was designated by the member nations of the World Intellectual Property Organization in order to raise awareness about how patents, copyrights, and trademarks impact daily life, to raise understanding of how protecting IP rights helps promote creativity and innovation, to celebrate the contributions of creators and innovators to societies around the world, and to encourage respect for the IP rights of others.
04.26.2017	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 378-48 the Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act (H.R. 1695). This bipartisan bill – introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) -- makes important changes to the selection process for the head of the U.S. Copyright Office, known as the Register of Copyrights. Specifically, the Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act creates a selection panel made up of Members of Congress and the Librarian of Congress. This panel would be tasked with submitting a list of at least three qualified individuals to the President for his or her consideration. The President would nominate an individual from the selection panel’s list and that individual would be subject to confirmation by the U.S. Senate. The legislation also limits the Register to a 10-year term which is renewable by another Presidential nomination and Senate confirmation. Goodlatte and Conyers praised today’s approval of the bill: “The Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act is one product of the House Judiciary Committee’s multi-year comprehensive review of our copyright laws. This bipartisan review, which began under the tenure of the former Librarian of Congress in April 2013, has been focused on ensuring our copyright laws keep pace in the digital age and has included much discussion on the merits of giving the Copyright Office more autonomy with respect to the Library of Congress. “While this legislation represents an important first step in the Committee’s efforts to update our nation’s copyright laws, we remain committed to working with all members and stakeholders to take additional steps to ensure the U.S Copyright Office is modernized so that it functions efficiently and effectively for all Americans.” Background: Goodlatte first announced the House Judiciary Committee’s intention to undertake a comprehensive review of U.S. copyright law on April 24, 2013, in a speech before the World Intellectual Property Day celebration at the Library of Congress. As part of the copyright review, the House Judiciary Committee held 20 hearings which included testimony from 100 witnesses. Following these hearings, Goodlatte and Conyers invited all prior witnesses of the Committee’s copyright review hearings and other interested stakeholders to meet with Committee staff and provide additional input on copyright policy issues. In addition, the House Judiciary Committee conducted a listening tour with stops in Nashville, Silicon Valley, and Los Angeles where they heard from a wide range of creators, innovators, technology professionals, and users of copyrighted works. In December 2016, Goodlatte and Conyers released the first policy proposal to come out of the Committee’s review of U.S. copyright law. Additional policy proposals will be released.
04.25.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the appointment of Randolph D. Alles, a retired Marine Corps general and Acting Deputy Commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, to lead the United States Secret Service: “Randy Alles is an excellent choice to lead the Secret Service. He has an outstanding record of public service and strong leadership, serving our country in top posts in the Marine Corps and at Customs and Border Protection. He is known by his colleagues, friends, and family to be a man of integrity and of his word. The Secret Service has faced a number of challenges in recent years and I am confident that Mr. Alles will bring the leadership and changes needed to improve the agency. I look forward to working with him in his new role as Director of the United States Secret Service to make necessary reforms and to ensure the agency has the tools needed to keep the President, White House grounds, and other protectees safe from harm.”
04.21.2017	The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) presented Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA-06) the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at an event hosted by Altec Industries in Daleville, Virginia. “Manufacturing is critical and foundational to improving economic growth and job opportunities in the U.S.,” said Lee Styslinger III, Altec Chairman and CEO. “We are proud to help recognize congressional representatives like Congressman Bob Goodlatte for their outstanding voting record on key legislation that helps to benefit U.S. workers.” “Manufacturing is at the heart of the Sixth District’s economy, and I’m proud to be a strong supporter of this job-creating engine,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. “Congress must work to help ensure that the United States is a nation in which manufacturing and innovation can thrive by advancing legislation that protects free markets and encourages job creation, while also reforming our tax code so that businesses are able to compete in the global economy. I am pleased that the House has already acted on several bills this year to roll back burdensome red tape, and I will keep working to reform federal regulations that often stand in the way of economic growth. I thank the National Association of Manufacturers for today’s honor and Altec Industries for their continued dedication to employing Virginians.” “Manufacturers in Virginia and across the country are changing lives for the better—through the jobs we create and the products we make. Manufacturing is about improving the human condition, one innovation at a time,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Rep. Goodlatte is helping to make our success possible by standing with manufacturers when it matters and casting the right votes. “Manufacturers employ over 12 million men and women in the U.S., who are making everything from lifesaving medicines to the most cutting edge technology. The strength of manufacturing in America is responsible for the success of America in the world. When manufacturing succeeds, America succeeds, so Rep. Goodlatte’s consistent support for manufacturing means he is supporting a better future for all Americans.” Key votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM’s Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here.
04.19.2017	Bipartisan, bicameral Judiciary Committee leaders today reaffirmed their commitment to reform the troubled EB-5 investor visa program ahead of its scheduled expiration on April 28, or to let the flawed program expire if reforms are not possible. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and Senator Patrick Leahy, along with House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Ranking Member John Conyers, reiterated requirements of any meaningful negotiation as they continue to search for a compromise on EB-5 reform. The program has longstanding, well-documented fraud, abuse and national security concerns, and has drifted away from Congress’ original intent: spurring job creation in rural and economically depressed areas. “Despite the well-documented and rampant abuse of the EB-5 Regional Center Program that we have exposed in recent years, we remain committed to working in good faith with our colleagues and industry stakeholders to bring about much needed reforms to this troubled program. However, as we have made clear time and time again, any reforms must contain genuine and sincere changes to allow rural and distressed urban areas, the very communities this program is supposed to benefit, to compete for investment dollars. In addition, any reforms must address the many national security and fraud concerns by containing – without loopholes – compliance measures, background checks, and transparency provisions,” the lawmakers said. “Just a few weeks ago, we were encouraged by a reasonable proposal offered by IIUSA, the nation’s largest EB-5 industry trade association, containing significant reforms to the program. The proposal was a good faith effort to address our concerns and provide long-term stability to the program, and could have served as a basis for reform negotiations. “As we have in the past, we remain willing to work with our colleagues and industry groups to produce meaningful reform. This must include strong transparency and anti-fraud measures, meaningful investment differentials, adjustments of the investment amounts to appropriately account for inflation, adequate set asides for both rural and urban distressed areas, and an end to the program’s abusive gerrymandering practices.” In a recent letter to congressional leadership, the lawmakers, along with Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein, stated that the program should expire absent these reforms.
04.18.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s Buy American, Hire American Executive Order, which includes important reforms to the H-1B Visa program: “I applaud President Trump for his efforts to spur job creation, economic growth, and American competitiveness by improving our country’s high-skilled immigration programs. “The President’s Buy American, Hire American Executive Order directs the Secretaries of the appropriate agencies to examine the H-1B Visa program and identify reforms that will root out fraud and abuse to ultimately make the program more workable for American businesses while protecting American workers. “I look forward to working with the Administration to ensure that our country’s immigration policies bolster job growth for U.S. workers and do not undermine or take jobs away from them while ensuring American businesses have access to the workers they need.” Background: The H-1B Visa program allows U.S. employers to hire foreign specialty workers in technical and highly-skilled fields, like engineering, medicine, mathematics, and science. These workers receive a nonimmigrant visa that can last as long as six years. The Buy American, Hire American Executive Order directs the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to suggest reforms to help ensure that H-1B visas are awarded to the most-skilled or highest-paid petition beneficiaries.
04.07.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement upon the Senate’s confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to be the next associate justice to the Supreme Court of the United States: “Judge Neil Gorsuch has proven himself to be one of the most qualified jurists to be nominated to the Supreme Court, and it is a pleasure to see him confirmed to the highest court in the land. “Throughout the long and daunting confirmation process, Judge Gorsuch has demonstrated his faithfulness to the rule of law and the original meaning of the Constitution, as well as his ability to keep politics out of the work of the court. “President Trump made an excellent nomination to fill the seat of the late Justice Antonin Scalia, and I have no doubt that Judge Gorsuch will serve the Court admirably as the next associate justice.”
04.05.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement calling on the U.S. Senate to confirm Secretary of Agriculture nominee, Governor Sonny Perdue: “Agriculture is the lifeblood of our nation and the economic backbone of Virginia’s Sixth District. As a senior member of the House Committee on Agriculture, and a former Chairman, I urge my Senate colleagues to swiftly confirm Governor Sonny Perdue prior to the upcoming district work period. Our farmers and producers need a strong and steady hand to lead the Department, and I can think of no one better than Sonny Perdue. Whether it is the threat of avian flu, the economic challenges facing dairy producers and poultry farmers, the desire of the Trump Administration to refocus international trade agreements, or finding ways to advance the next Farm Bill with our leadership in Congress, American farmers need an advocate for rural America in office today. It’s time to make hay while the sun shines and confirm Sonny Perdue as the next Secretary of Agriculture.”
04.05.2017	Adding to the House Judiciary Committee’s work to protect children from exploitation and abuse, the Committee today approved two additional bills to strengthen penalties for child predators and fight abuse of children abroad by U.S. citizens. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on today’s Committee approval of these bills: “When it comes to protecting children, we must ensure our laws are airtight to prevent predators from facing no consequences for their cruel abuse and exploitation of kids. The bills approved by the House Judiciary Committee today close several loopholes in current law in order to combat global sex tourism and keep our kids safe from dangerous sex offenders. I applaud Representatives Ratcliffe and Roby for their good work on these bills and urge the House to take action on them quickly.” The Committee first approved the Strengthening Children’s Safety Act of 2017 (H.R. 1842), authored by Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), by voice vote. The bill makes communities safer by enhancing penalties for sex offenders who fail to register in the national sex offender registry when they have a prior state conviction for a violent crime. It also ensures enhanced penalties for child exploitation crimes apply equally to all dangerous sex offenders. The Committee also approved the Global Child Protection Act (H.R. 1862) authored by Representative Martha Roby (R-Ala.), by voice vote. The legislation combats global sex tourism by closing loopholes that allow child predators to go unpunished for their abuse of children overseas. Specifically, the bill expands the conduct covered for child sexual exploitation cases that involve abuse occurring abroad to include sexual contact. It also broadens the offenses covered in the recidivist enhancement provisions in current law to protect the youngest of child victims. In addition to the bills approved today, the House Judiciary Committee recently passed the Adam Walsh Reauthorization Act, the Child Protection Improvements Act, and the Targeting Child Predators Act. These bills ensure youth-serving organizations have access to background checks for prospective staff and volunteers, investigators have efficient access to critical evidence needed to stop child predators, and reauthorize and improve critical programs to track sex offenders. More information on today’s markup can be found here.
04.04.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today asked Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly to provide information on the suspects who allegedly murdered a teen boy from Lynchburg, Virginia. According to press reports, Jose Coreas-Ventura, Lisandro Posado-Vasquez, and Victor Rodas have each been charged with second degree murder for their alleged roles in murdering 17-year-old Raymond Wood in Bedford County, Virginia. Media reports indicate that these suspects are affiliated with MS-13, one of the most violent and rapidly growing transnational street gangs. One of the suspects, Coreas-Ventura, has an outstanding warrant in Montgomery County, Maryland and is charged with first degree murder there stemming from a June 2016 murder. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte commends Secretary Kelly and Bedford Country Sheriff Mike Brown for working together as the investigation unfolds and calls on the Department of Homeland Security to provide the suspects’ immigration and criminal histories to the House Judiciary Committee. Goodlatte also requests that Secretary Kelly provide an update on agency efforts to protect Americans from gang activity in the United States. Below is the text of the letter. The signed letter can be found here. April 4, 2017 The Honorable John F. Kelly Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly: I write to request information regarding the individuals allegedly responsible for the murder of my constituent, a 17-year-old boy from Lynchburg, Virginia. According to press reports, Jose Coreas-Ventura, Lisandro Posado-Vasquez, and Victor Rodas have each been charged with second degree murder for their alleged roles in this vicious crime. Even more troubling is that Coreas-Ventura has an outstanding warrant in Montgomery County, Maryland and is charged with first degree murder there stemming from a June 2016 murder. Press reports further indicate that the Department of Homeland Security is working with the Bedford County Sheriff’s Office as this investigation continues to unfold. I remain proud of the hard work done by Sheriff Mike Brown and the entire law enforcement community in Bedford County and Lynchburg and their commitment to working with federal partners including ICE. Please provide case history information regarding Jose Coreas-Ventura, Lisandro Posado-Vasquez, and Victor Rodas, including but not limited to: 1. The complete alien file (A-file), including any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all reports or notifications generated by DHS or in its possession about these individuals, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history or immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek their removal from the United States. 2. Each and every date on which the individuals were encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which they were released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did each individual enter the United States? Was each ever served with a Notice to Appear? If so, was it filed with an immigration court? Please explain. 4. Were any of the individuals processed as unaccompanied alien minors? If so, which ones and who were they released to? 5. Did any of the individuals ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that they may have submitted, whether or not adjudicated. 6. Has either individual been removed previously? If so, when? 7. Has ICE issued a detainer or request for notification to any entity regarding any of the individuals? Please explain. 8. Are any of the individuals a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. As you know, Privacy Act protections do not apply to this request made in my capacity as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. This murder allegedly is tied to gang activity. Media reports indicate that these suspects were affiliated with MS-13, the invidious transnational criminal street gang. The threat posed by immigrant criminal gangs is becoming more and more severe. ICE has stated that these gangs “have grown to become a serious threat in American communities across the nation – not only in cities, but increasingly in suburban and even rural areas. As ICE has found, “[e]ntire neighborhoods and sometimes communities are held hostage by and subjected to the violence of street gangs. ICE has found that “membership of these violent transnational gangs [is] comprised largely of foreign-born nationals.” ICE believes that MS-13 is “one of the most violent and rapidly growing transnational street gangs.” The most effective mechanism to protect Americans from these gangs is to remove their members. ICE can currently remove alien gang members who are unlawful aliens without having to wait for them to be convicted of crimes. However, it cannot do so for legally present gang members. In addition, those unlawful aliens who have received asylum or temporary protected status (TPS) cannot be removed until conviction. Thus, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act, which the Judiciary Committee has approved in the 113th and 114th Congresses, and will take up this year, makes aliens inadmissible and deportable on the basis of criminal gang membership and ineligible for asylum or TPS. I am encouraged that the interdiction and dismantling of criminal street gangs are a priority for this Administration, please update me on what the Department of Homeland Security is currently doing to accomplish this critical mission. I appreciate your coordination with the law enforcement entities in Virginia responsible for this investigation, and will remain in close contact with Sheriff Brown as the investigation continues to unfold. As you know, the House Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over enforcement of the immigration law. I look forward to working with you to ensure that your agency has the resources, both fiscal and legislative, to ensure you can remove dangerous aliens. Had the prior Administration had your commitment to the safety of the American public, a 17-year-old Lynchburg boy might still be alive today. Please respond to this request by April 17, 2017. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Joseph Edlow, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, House Judiciary Committee, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
03.29.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that the Congressional Art Competition for high school students throughout the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia is now underway: “Capturing the beauty of nature in paint, sketching a scene from the past, or snapping a photo of life today – these are just some of the many ways art can tell a story. The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity for students to showcase their talents and share their story with visitors to the U.S. Capitol. I am always impressed by the skills of young artists in the Sixth Congressional District, and I look forward to reviewing this year’s submissions. I encourage all interested students to submit their artwork and ask others to help pass information about this opportunity along.” Background: The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students who reside in the Sixth Congressional District. The winner of the Sixth District’s competition will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. on Thursday, May 4, 2017. The format for the Sixth District’s Congressional Art Competition is as follows: • Students or instructors may deliver their artwork in-person to one of Congressman Goodlatte’s Sixth District offices located in Roanoke, Lynchburg, Staunton, and Harrisonburg. • Students or instructors may also arrange for a member of Congressman Goodlatte's district staff to pick up the artwork at a designated location. • Students or instructors may take a digital photograph(s) of the artwork and send it via e-mail to Michael Ambrose at Michael.Ambrose@mail.house.gov. To review the official rules and guidelines for the 2017 Congressional Art Competition and access the student release form, please visit Goodlatte.House.Gov. Submissions that do not adhere to the Competition guidelines will not be considered.
03.29.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General report, “Review of the Department’s Oversight of Cash Seizure and Forfeiture Activities.” The report found that the Justice Department does not measure how its asset seizure and forfeiture activities advance criminal investigations and does not require its state and local task force officers to receive training on federal asset seizure and forfeiture laws prior to conducting federal seizures. Additionally, the report found that the Drug Enforcement Administration conducts cash seizures that may not advance or relate to criminal investigations, and may pose risks to civil liberties. Goodlatte: “Today’s report by the Inspector General makes it clear that asset forfeiture is in desperate need of reform. While asset forfeiture is a useful law enforcement tool to fight crime, the current lack of oversight and training poses dangers to Americans’ civil liberties. The Justice Department should implement the recommendations made by the Inspector General and Congress must also improve the law. As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan work on criminal justice reform, the Committee approved the Due Process Act last year to strengthen protections for Americans’ property through civil asset forfeiture reform. I remain committed to criminal justice reform and plan to address this matter and others in the 115th Congress.” Background: As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, last Congress the Committee approved H.R. 5283, the Deterring Undue Enforcement by Protecting Rights of Citizens from Excessive Searches and Seizures Act of 2016 (Due Process Act) to strengthen protections for Americans’ property through civil asset forfeiture reform. The Due Process Act raises the standard of proof law enforcement must show before depriving an individual of his or her property, increases accountability and oversight of seizures and forfeitures, and strengthens protections for Americans whose property has been seized by law enforcement agencies.
03.28.2017	Last night, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, joined Tucker Carlson Tonight on Fox News to discuss the impacts of lax immigration enforcement on communities throughout the United States. Today, at 10:30 a.m., the House Judiciary Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee will hold a hearing to examine the need for immigration enforcement. The hearing will be broadcast live at judiciary.house.gov. Click here to watch the full interview on Tucker Carlson Tonight. Congressman Goodlatte: “This is a totally preventable crime that occurred in Maryland and it happens all over the country and it happens very frequently. It is the result of sending the message to the world: you come to our border, we are going to release you in the interior of the country. This is now changing under this new administration.” Background: Last week, Congressman Goodlatte asked Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly for information on the two suspects who allegedly raped a young girl at Rockville High School in Rockville, Maryland. Jose Montano, 17, from El Salvador, and Henry Sanchez-Milian, 18, from Guatemala, allegedly forced a 14-year-old female student into a restroom at her school and subsequently raped and sodomized her. DHS has confirmed to the House Judiciary Committee that both suspects entered the U.S. at the Rio Grande Valley sector last year as unaccompanied minors.
03.28.2017	Today, President Trump signed an executive order that will strengthen the nation’s energy security and directs the Environmental Protection Agency to re-evaluate the Obama Administration’s so-called “Clean Power Plan.” Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in support: “America needs access to affordable energy. Despite a lack of constitutional authority or direction from Congress, the Obama Administration attempted to circumvent the legislative branch to unfairly regulate American energy and enact a cap-and-trade agenda through the so-called Clean Power Plan. This Plan would limit our domestic energy potential, threaten the jobs of those in the energy sector and beyond, and force more of Americans’ hard-earned income toward paying the electric bill. Re-evaluating this Plan and lifting other restrictions on American energy is the right approach, and I applaud President Trump and Secretary Pruitt for their actions today. A sound all-of-the-above energy policy that encourages exploration, innovation, and conservation is critical to a strong economy. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues in Congress to cut through red tape that is holding back energy production. It’s time we put ourselves on a clear path to energy independence and power our economy for the future.”
03.28.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement upon the signing of the Vietnam War Veterans Recognition Act of 2017 (S. 305) into law by President Donald J. Trump: “Our country’s veterans deserve our gratitude and respect for the sacrifices they made in defense of democracy. “Displaying the American flag on National Vietnam War Veterans Day is something we all can do to show our Vietnam veterans our appreciation for their service. These veterans were willing to fight in defense of their flag in a far off part of the world, and it is fitting we show our support for them here at home in this manner. “On March 29th this year and every year, I hope that all Americans fly the flag and take time to remember the Americans who fought in the Vietnam War.” Background: Passed unanimously in the House and Senate, the bill designates that citizens should be encouraged to fly the American flag on National Vietnam War Veterans Day celebrated on March 29th every year, which is the date in 1973 when the last combat troops were withdrawn from Vietnam.
03.24.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Louie Gohmert (R-Texas) today pressed key intelligence agencies about leaks of classified information and the impact they have on the American people’s trust in vital national security programs. In a letter to the leaders of the Department of Justice, Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Federal Bureau of Investigation, National Security Agency, and the Central Intelligence Agency, Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy, and Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Gohmert express deep concern about leaks of classified information from unnamed sources to the media and the continuous repercussions of prior unauthorized and damaging disclosures about national security programs. These leaks are especially damaging as the House Judiciary Committee seeks to reauthorize and reform FISA Section 702 later this year. This program, which targets the communications of non-U.S. persons outside of the United States in order to protect national security, reportedly encompasses more than a quarter of all NSA surveillance and has been used on multiple occasions to detect and prevent horrific terrorist plots against our country. All leaks of classified information have the potential to erode the American people’s trust in their government’s ability to protect both the security of our country and privacy of U.S. persons. Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy, and Subcommittee Vice Chairman Gohmert call on the intelligence community to openly dispel any false accusations of widespread illegal surveillance. Moreover, it is vital for the intelligence community to publicly describe the value of FISA Section 702 in thwarting terrorist plots. Finally, the members request a briefing on efforts made by the agencies to weed out any leakers of classified information and bring them to justice. Below is the text of the letter. The signed letter can be found here. March 24, 2017 Dear Attorney General Sessions, Director Coats, Director Comey, Admiral Rogers and Director Pompeo: The American people’s trust in the intelligence community and the surveillance programs authorized by law is vital to our national security. These programs prevent terrorist attacks and save American lives. The unlawful dissemination of classified information undercuts the integrity of these programs and jeopardizes their continued existence. This and other unauthorized and felonious disclosures – past and present – are increasingly casting a pall over not only our country’s intelligence apparatus but also the American people’s trust in the efficacy and integrity of the intelligence community and the programs utilized. While the House and Senate Intelligence Committees do conduct oversight of the intelligence community, the House and Senate Judiciary Committees have primary oversight of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), the important national security statute at the center of many of the recent allegations. As you know, the most important foreign intelligence tool in our nation’s anti-terrorism arsenal, Section 702 of FISA (“Section 702”), is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2017. The fact is Section 702 authorizes surveillance that reportedly encompasses more than a quarter of all NSA surveillance, and it has been used on multiple occasions to detect and prevent potentially calamitous terrorist plots against our country. Because of the aforementioned unauthorized disclosures, many Members of Congress are distrustful of these capabilities and fear the consequences if wrongdoers within the government continue to disseminate information feloniously. Our Committee seeks several results with this letter. First, we ask you to openly dispel, if inaccurate or false, accusations of widespread illegal surveillance. Second, we encourage you to publicly describe the value of Section 702 in thwarting terrorist plots. Members of Congress and the public need to fully understand the utility of the program as well as the procedures in place to ensure Section 702 operates within the confines of the law and the Constitution. Finally, we ask you brief us on any efforts made by your agencies to identify those who feloniously disseminate classified or otherwise legally protected information and bring them to justice. “Unnamed government sources” leaking confidential information, whether the information is accurate or not, is detrimental to our national security and cannot be tolerated. Congress, as the People’s representative body, has the responsibility to ensure proper measures are being taken to prevent any unauthorized disclosures of classified information. Thank you for your attention to these important matters. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee Trey Gowdy Chairman Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, & Investigations Louie Gohmert Vice-Chairman Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, & Investigations
03.23.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) today introduced the Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act, which is the product of months of bicameral, bipartisan discussions led by Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), and Senate Judiciary Committee Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.). The Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act makes important changes to the selection process for the head of the U.S. Copyright Office, known as the Register of Copyrights. Specifically, the legislation requires the Register to be nominated by the President of the United States and subject to confirmation by the U.S. Senate. It would also limit the Register to a ten year term which is renewable by another Presidential nomination and Senate confirmation. Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, Chairman Grassley, Ranking Member Feinstein, and Senator Leahy released the following joint statement upon introduction of the Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act: “We are pleased to join together in a bipartisan, bicameral effort to make important and necessary improvements to the selection process for the position of Register of Copyrights. We remain absolutely committed to working on modernizing the Copyright Office. Reforms being considered include public advisory committees, improvements to Copyright Office systems for data inputs and outputs, and copyright ownership transparency. However, time is of the essence when it comes to the selection process for a new Register of Copyrights. “America’s creativity is the envy of the world and the Copyright Office is at the center of it. With the current Register serving only on an acting basis, now is the time to make changes to ensure that future Registers are transparent and accountable to Congress. We must ensure that any new Register is a good manager and fully qualified to lead and make this office more operationally effective as he or she continues to directly advise Congress on copyrights. The next Register of Copyrights should be dedicated to serving all stakeholders in the copyright ecosystem.” The Register of Copyrights Selection and Accountability Act was introduced with 29 bipartisan cosponsors.
03.22.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued this statement following House passage of the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 (H.R. 372) by a vote of 416-7: “Hardworking Americans are hurting because of the failures of Obamacare. Since Obamacare was signed into law seven years ago this week, the health care marketplace has been collapsing and consolidating because of this poorly designed law. As a result, Americans are left with fewer affordable health care options in their states and skyrocketing premiums. “The American people are asking Congress to fix the mistakes of Obamacare, and create real reforms to stop the rising costs of health care. The repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson antitrust exemption for the health insurance industry is a vital step in the larger goal of restoring competition to the health care industry. “We must still repeal and replace Obamacare, but reforms like the repeal of McCarran-Ferguson are also important elements to creating a health care system that is affordable and available to all Americans in the long term.” Background: In 1945, Congress passed the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempts the business of insurance from federal antitrust regulation. The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act would repeal the McCarran-Ferguson Act’s federal antitrust exemption for health insurance. The McCarran-Ferguson Act would remain in effect for other types of insurance, thus maintaining a narrowly tailored federal antitrust exemption for certain practices relating to the provision of those types of services.
03.22.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today asked Department of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly to provide information on the two suspects who allegedly raped a young girl at Rockville High School in Rockville, Maryland. Last Thursday, Jose Montano, 17, from El Salvador, and Henry Sanchez-Milian, 18, from Guatemala, allegedly forced a 14-year-old female student into a restroom at her school and subsequently raped and sodomized her. It is reported that Border Patrol agents encountered Sanchez-Milian entering the United States illegally though the Rio Grande Valley sector in August 2016 and that he was issued a notice to appear in immigration court but the hearing date had not been set. Sanchez-Milian’s entrance into the United States coincides with the surge of unaccompanied minors from Central America that flooded the Southwest border during the Obama Administration seeking to benefit from lax immigration enforcement. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte commends Secretary Kelly for his commitment to enforcing immigration laws and calls on the Department of Homeland Security to provide the immigration and criminal histories of Montano and Sanchez-Milian. Goodlatte also calls on Secretary Kelly to provide any legislative changes needed to better enforce immigration laws and protect Americans from unlawful immigrants who commit crimes in the United States. Below is the text of the letter. The signed letter can be found here. March 22, 2017 The Honorable John F. Kelly Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Kelly: I write to request information surrounding the horrific sexual assault that reportedly occurred at Rockville High School in Rockville, MD, last Thursday. According to press reports, Jose O. Montano, 17, from El Salvador, and Henry E. Sanchez-Milian, 18, from Guatemala, forced a 14-year-old female student into a restroom at the school and subsequently raped and sodomized her. And those same reports have noted that the Department of Homeland Security has acknowledged that Border Patrol agents encountered Sanchez-Milian entering the United States illegally in August 2016, through the Rio Grande Valley. Apparently he was issued a notice to appear in immigration court, but no hearing date had yet been set. Once again, we have an example of how the Obama Administration’s lax immigration enforcement policies resulted in a life being seriously harmed – in this case, the life of an innocent 14 year-old-girl who was simply attending school. There is no doubt that such heinous crimes by illegal immigrants who were encountered by the Obama Administration, not removed by the Obama Administration, and instead actually set free in American communities by the Obama Administration, will continue to occur until sufficient enforcement has occurred. You have continuously stated your commitment to such enforcement, and I appreciate that commitment. Systematic and steady immigration enforcement is key to protecting American communities from dangerous criminals entering the country and committing crimes, and to ensuring that all foreign nationals understand that if they choose to put themselves in danger to make the long, and many times expensive, journey to the U.S., they will no longer be assured of being able to stay. Systematic and steady enforcement is the best deterrent to illegal immigration. As proof, we need look no further than the success your policy changes are already having at the Southwest border. I was happy to see, per your press release last month, that border apprehensions were down 40 percent. And I was even more pleased when President Trump updated that number yesterday to 61 percent. Again – this is proof that enforcement is a deterrent to illegal immigration. I commend you for your commitment to enforcing the law and for your progress thus far to deter illegal immigration. Perhaps if Sanchez-Milian had known he would likely be deported, he would not have come to the U.S. and the 14-year-old high school student would not have been assaulted. That said, please provide case history information regarding Jose O. Montano and Henry E. Sanchez-Milian, including but not limited to: 1. The complete alien file (A-file), including any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all reports or notifications generated by DHS or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history or immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. Each and every date on which the individuals were encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which he was released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did each individual enter the United States? Was each ever served with a Notice to Appear? If so, was it filed with an immigration court? Please explain. 4. Did either individual ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that they may have submitted, whether or not adjudicated. 5. Has either individual been removed previously? If so, when? 6. Has ICE issued a detainer or request for notification to any entity regarding either individual? Please explain. 7. Is either individual a member of, or associated with, any criminal gang? Please explain. As you know, Privacy Act protections do not apply to this request made in my capacity as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. In addition, please explain what steps you are currently taking to prevent individuals like Montano and Sanchez-Milian from victimizing the American public. Lastly, as Chairman of the Committee of jurisdiction over immigration enforcement, my agenda includes providing legislative and other resources that would aid your mission to enforce immigration laws and prevent criminal aliens from having access to our communities, including our schools. In that vein, please provide me any such legislative changes that your Department would like to see to current immigration law. Please respond to this request by April 5, 2017. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Andrea Loving, Counsel for the House Judiciary Committee, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
03.20.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Declined Detainer Outcome Report issued by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which found that numerous jurisdictions declined dozens of detainers for criminal aliens from January 28, 2017 to February 3, 2017: “I applaud President Trump and Secretary Kelly for their commitment to end dangerous sanctuary policies and for their efforts to show the American people the recklessness of these policies. Sanctuary cities needlessly jeopardize public safety by refusing to cooperate with federal immigration authorities. Too often, these policies result in preventable tragedies, such as the murder of Kate Steinle. Under the Obama Administration, sanctuary cities were allowed to flaunt their irresponsible policies and faced no consequences. “But unlike his predecessor, President Trump is shining the spotlight on sanctuary cities to expose the danger they pose to American communities. The Trump Administration has revealed that in one week alone, dozens of detainers for criminal aliens were declined—including those convicted of sexual assault, domestic violence, assault, and driving under the influence of alcohol. Local officials allowing their communities to protect criminal aliens from federal immigration enforcement should be ashamed of themselves. They are putting the interests of criminals first and those of the American people last. As the American people learn more about the dangers posed by sanctuary cities, I am hopeful it will put more pressure on rogue local communities to comply with federal immigration enforcement efforts.” Background: The Declined Detainer Outcome Report is a requirement of President Trump’s executive order, “Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States.” The report is to be issued on a weekly basis in order to better inform the American people about the public safety threats associated with sanctuary jurisdictions.
03.20.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte announced today that he will host a Vietnam Veterans Commemoration on Thursday, March 30, in Staunton to honor the men and women who served our country during the Vietnam Era: “On March 29, 1973, the last combat troops were withdrawn from Vietnam. Tragically, when they returned to the United States, these veterans, like many who returned earlier in the war, were greeted with a cold, and at times hostile, reception. Their stories remind us that most returning veterans were not even acknowledged for their sacrifice. While the nation has worked to correct this terrible mistake over the last few decades, there is more we can all do to honor Vietnam veterans. “In commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the Vietnam War and in remembrance of Vietnam Veterans Day on March 29, I am honored to host a Vietnam Veterans Commemoration to recognize, honor, and thank Vietnam veterans for their service and sacrifice. If you, or a veteran you know, would like to be recognized, I encourage you to register online or call my Staunton office. Many brave men and women in the Sixth District selflessly served our country during this time, and I look forward to this special event.” Logistics/Registration Thursday, March 30 at 4:30PM Thomas D. Howie Memorial Armory 101 116th Regimental Road (in Gypsy Hill Park) Staunton, Virginia 24401 Vietnam veterans are asked to register in advance by visiting Goodlatte.House.Gov/VietnamVeterans. For questions, or to register by phone, please call Congressman Goodlatte’s office at 540-885-3861. Additional Information The Vietnam Veterans Commemoration will honor veterans who served during the Vietnam Era from November 1, 1955 to May 15, 1975. Veterans wishing to participate in the commemoration must be residents of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia. All Vietnam veterans in attendance will receive a pin to honor their service. Constituent service staff will also be on hand to assist veterans with issues they may have with the Department of Veterans Affairs or other federal agencies. Family members and friends of Vietnam veterans are invited to attend; however, please understand that seating for veterans or those with disabilities will be prioritized. Congressman Goodlatte is a participant in the United States of America Vietnam War Commemorative Partner Program.
03.16.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement upon House Judiciary Committee approval of the Vietnam War Veterans Recognition Act of 2017 (S. 305) by voice vote: “Our Vietnam veterans sacrificed so much for the cause of freedom, and they deserve recognition for their service. The American flag is one of the greatest symbols of liberty and democracy around the world, and displaying the flag from our homes, businesses, and government buildings is one important way to honor those who served in the Vietnam War. “Vietnam veterans deserve our respect and gratitude, and I hope all Americans take time to remember their service on March 29 this year and every year.” Background: Passed by the U.S. Senate, the bill designates that citizens should be encouraged to fly the American flag on National Vietnam War Veterans Day, which is celebrated on March 29 – the date in 1973 when the last combat troops were withdrawn from Vietnam.
03.16.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) made the following statement on the release today of President Trump’s budget blueprint for Fiscal Year 2018 (FY18): “President Trump ran on a platform of stronger national defense, reprioritizing domestic spending, and strengthening our nation’s borders. That is exactly what his budget blueprint released today does – he told America what he would do, and now he is following through on his promises. While I am still reviewing President Trump’s proposal and its impacts on the Sixth District specifically, this bold set of priorities is a strong step forward in reducing bureaucratic waste and ensuring a strong national defense. As a matter of policy, however, the President’s budget is just one plan of many that Congress will consider as it crafts the FY18 budget and individual appropriations bills. I look forward to working with leaders in the House to pass a fiscally responsible budget that balances, ensures that taxpayer dollars are spent effectively, keeps us safe from terrorist threats, protects our individual freedoms and liberties, and sets the stage for a healthier American economy.”
03.15.2017	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senator Tim Kaine (D-Va.) introduced resolutions in both the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to congressionally designate the George C. Marshall Foundation’s museum and library located in Lexington as the “National George C. Marshall Museum and Library.” These resolutions are cosponsored by the entire Virginia delegation in both the House and Senate. “General George C. Marshall’s leadership changed the world,” Goodlatte said. “From engineering the Allied plan to storm the beaches of Normandy to formulating the Marshall Plan for Europe’s economic recovery in the aftermath of World War II, the history of the United States, and for that fact, the world, would be a different place if not for his contributions. General Marshall dedicated his life to public service as a soldier and statesman. His legacy is well-known in the Sixth Congressional District and the City of Lexington – home to his alma mater, Virginia Military Institute. With the resolution introduced today, Congress will officially recognize these contributions and General Marshall’s place in history.” “George C. Marshall is an American hero – a military and diplomatic leader who embodied the maxim that the power of America’s example is as great as the example of its power,” Kaine said. “General Marshall was a VMI graduate and Leesburg resident with deep roots in the Commonwealth. It is altogether fitting that Congress recognize the foremost museum and library dedicated to his life.” Background: These resolutions would grant an honorary designation and will result in no cost to American taxpayers. The George C. Marshall Foundation was established in 1953 and officially opened in 1964 on the post of Virginia Military Institute, General Marshall’s alma mater. Since 1964, the Foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the important contributions of General Marshall through its Museum and Research Library. The Museum Research Library preserves a large collection of documents pertaining to General Marshall’s life and modern military history as well as housing several exhibits and General Marshall’s 1953 Nobel Peace Prize. Similar legislation introduced by Congressman Goodlatte, H. Con. Res. 138, was passed in the 114th Congress by the House of Representatives.
03.10.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on House passage of the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act (LARA) of 2017 (H.R. 720) by a vote of 230-188: “Lawyers who flood our federal courts with frivolous suits have no place in our civil justice system. Baseless suits brought against hardworking Americans, as well as businesses large and small, have a real cost that ultimately hurt the economy. Judges need to have the tools necessary to combat unscrupulous lawyers, and Congress is answering their calls for reform. “Our civil justice system was created to serve Americans who brings legitimate claims to court, and the reforms in LARA allow for the doors of justice to stay open, while ensuring attorneys are held accountable for filing lawsuits with no basis in law or fact.” Background: LARA restores accountability to our legal system by penalizing lawyers for filing baseless lawsuits. The bill specifically ensures that judges impose monetary sanctions against lawyers who file frivolous lawsuits, including the attorney’s fees and costs incurred by the victim of the frivolous lawsuit; and reverses the 1993 amendments to Rule 11 that allow parties and their attorneys to avoid sanctions for making frivolous claims by withdrawing them within 21 days. Additionally, LARA passed the House during the 114th Congress.
03.09.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the news that illegal border crossings at the Southwest border dropped 40 percent in January and February: “Enforcing the law works. President Trump has sent the strong message that our immigration laws will be enforced and unlawful immigration will not be tolerated. Through his policies, President Trump has empowered Border Patrol and immigration enforcement agents to do their jobs. Because of the President's actions, we are already seeing results. Illegal border crossings are down 40 percent at the Southwest border. This is not happenstance; it’s a direct result of strong enforcement of the law. I applaud President Trump and Secretary Kelly for their commitment to restoring the rule of law and strengthening the integrity of our immigration system.”
03.09.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement upon House passage of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act (FICALA) of 2017 (H.R. 985) by a vote of 220-201. “Class action lawsuits were created so Americans could have strength in numbers when they took their legitimate disputes to court. These suits were supposed to provide a level playing field for both consumers and businesses, so their issues could be settled in a just and fair system. “Sadly, because of abuses by unscrupulous trial lawyers, many Americans now see class action lawsuits as a television commercial, a hotline, and a cottage industry where lawyers win and victims lose. “I authored the Class Action Fairness Act over ten years ago to curb the number of baseless claims that come into our courts, and protect groups who use our civil litigation system as a way to have their grievances resolved. But since President George W. Bush signed that bill into law, unscrupulous attorneys have been exploiting loopholes at the expense of their own clients, and the American consumer. “FICALA will keep the doors to justice open for the American consumer, while holding businesses large and small accountable. Additionally, we are giving judges the tools they need to keep abusive practices out of our courts, and to prevent further exploitation of victims by trial lawyers who wish to line their pockets.” Background: Introduced by Goodlatte, provisions of FICALA seek to maximize recoveries for deserving victims, and weed out unmeritorious claims that would otherwise siphon resources away from innocent parties. Among the legislation’s reforms, the bill requires that classes consist of members with the same type and scope of injury. Under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury. The bill also contains additional provisions to: • Prohibit judges from approving class actions in which the lawyer representing the class is a relative of a party in the class action suit. • Require that class action lawyers only get paid after the victims get paid. • Order any third-party funding agreement be disclosed to the district court. The bill also contains provisions of the Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency (FACT) Act (H.R. 906), which was introduced by Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Vice-Chairman Blake Farenthold. The FACT Act reduces fraud in the asbestos bankruptcy trust system through increased transparency measures. These measures ensure that asbestos bankruptcy trusts have the tools to combat fraud, which limits funds available for deserving asbestos victims. The FACT Act is a measured approach that strikes the proper balance between achieving transparency and protecting victims’ privacy.
03.08.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee today sent a letter to Director James Comey calling on the FBI to follow all legitimate investigative leads regarding Russia’s alleged interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, as well as leads regarding the mishandling of classified information. Members signing the letter also renewed their request for a briefing on these matters and allegations made by the President over the weekend that he and his associates were under surveillance during the presidential election. Members signing the letter are: Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Crime Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) and Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner, Jr. (R-Wis.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Raúl Labrador (R-Idaho), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Martha Roby (R-Ala.), Matt Gaetz (R-Fla.), Mike Johnson (R-La.), and Andy Biggs (R-Ariz.). Below is the text of the letter. The signed letter can be found here. March 8, 2017 The Honorable James B. Comey Director Federal Bureau of Investigation Washington, D.C. Dear Director Comey: Over the past several days, there have been reports containing significant surveillance and cyber-related allegations, including that the government of the Russian Federation attempted to interfere with the 2016 U.S. presidential election as part of a broader cyberattack on our country and the fundamentals of our democracy. It also appears information classified at the highest level, including methodologies of surveillance, has made its way into the public domain. Moreover, we now see allegations from the President himself that he and his associates were placed under surveillance during the 2016 campaign. An independent FBI and Justice Department are essential to a functioning Republic. Our fellow citizens must have confidence in the thoroughness and evenhandedness of our investigatory and prosecutorial agencies. In the past, some of the undersigned have lamented the appearance of a multitrack justice system. The same laws must apply to each of us. We believe both the Legislative Branch and the Executive Branch have unique but distinct investigatory functions. The Executive Branch uniquely investigates allegations of criminal wrongdoing, and it should do so without impermissible interference from the other Branches. If criminal activity is discovered, it should be investigated and prosecuted with the utmost rigor of the law. The Legislative Branch has a distinct constitutional role as well, in that it exercises oversight of the functions of the Executive Branch. This Committee will, of course, continue to engage in oversight within our jurisdiction. To these ends, we again request a briefing regarding Russia’s alleged interference in the U.S. election, and additionally, on the very serious allegations that the President and/or his associates were or are under surveillance. These briefings must also, necessarily, address why information on any of these matters – which is presumably classified – continues to leak. The Judiciary Committee is the primary House committee of jurisdiction over the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and the Wiretap Act, laws heavily implicated by recent claims. We, therefore, will not waiver in our commitment to ensuring that our nation’s most powerful intelligence tools and agencies operate with the trust and confidence of the American people. We know you understand that the FBI must keep total fidelity to the laws and the Constitution of the United States. We therefore urge you to follow all legitimate investigative leads in these matters and any other matter affecting the national security of the United States. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Trey Gowdy Jim Sensenbrenner Steve Chabot Darrell Issa Steve King Trent Franks Ted Poe Tom Marino Raúl Labrador Doug Collins Ken Buck John Ratcliffe Martha Roby Mike Johnson Andy Biggs Ron DeSantis Blake Farenthold Jason Chaffetz Matt Gaetz Lamar Smith Jim Jordan
03.07.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued a series of letters today urging state bar associations to help curb misleading and even dangerous attorney advertisements regarding lawsuit centered around pharmaceuticals. Specifically, the letter urges implementation of a “requirement that attorney commercials which may cause patients to discontinue medically necessary medications have appropriate warnings that patients should not discontinue medications without seeking the advice of their physician.” Over 50 letters were sent, including a letter to the American Bar Association (ABA), a letter to each state bar, and the bar for the District of Columbia. In a recent report, the American Medical Association (AMA) found that patients were more likely to discontinue the use of prescribed FDA approved pharmaceuticals after seeing television advertisements that “emphasize side effects while ignoring the benefits or the fact that the medication is FDA approved.” The AMA believes that such advertisements are “designed to frighten patients” and “jeopardize patient care”. An additional letter also calls on groups that air such advertisements to answer questions regarding their practices, and what is being done with the information gathered from potential clients. Chairman Goodlatte noted that the “legal profession, which prides itself on the ability to self-regulate” should take action to promote better practices when airing such advertisements because lives depend on the of patients continuing to follow the advice of their physicians.
03.06.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s revised executive order, “Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States.” Goodlatte: “I applaud President Trump for remaining committed to protecting our nation from foreign terrorists. The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe. We know that terrorists seek to exploit our immigration system in order to harm Americans. We should maintain a generous immigration system but it’s sensible to hit pause on admitting foreign nationals and refugees from countries where adequate screening cannot occur. The Ninth Circuit was wrong on the first executive order, but I am pleased that President Trump is moving forward with a revised plan to keep Americans safe.”
03.02.2017	Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Steve Womack (R-Ark.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) released the following statement today after reintroducing the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) Reform Act (H.R. 1315): “The Renewable Fuel Standard is a well-intentioned flop. After a decade of this policy, it’s clearer than ever that the federal government’s creation of an artificial market for the ethanol industry has resulted in a domino effect that is hurting people across the country. The misguided RFS failed to lower prices at the pump all while creating an artificial market for ethanol that is having unintended and profound effects on consumers, energy producers, livestock producers, retailers, our food supply, and even the environment. Congress must reform the RFS and provide Americans relief. Leaders in the House have signaled that there is a real appetite to reform the ethanol mandate this year, and we urge our colleagues to consider the RFS Reform Act as a vehicle to guide this debate and reform process. Not only does this bill have bipartisan backing in the House, but it also has the support of a diverse coalition of organizations representing folks from every corner of the United States. Congress cannot continue to stick with the status quo when it comes to the ethanol mandate. We do not need any more delays – now is the time to act on RFS reform.” Background: The RFS Reform Act eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels, and decreases the total volume of renewable fuel that must be contained in gasoline sold or introduced into commerce for years 2017-2022. At the time of introduction, the RFS Reform Act had 42 bipartisan cosponsors.
03.02.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ announcement that he will recuse himself from any matters arising from the campaigns for President of the United States: “Attorney General Sessions did the right thing by recusing himself. Attorney General Sessions is an honorable man who believes in preserving the integrity of the justice system. I applaud his decision to avoid even the appearance of impropriety in order to ensure the American people have confidence in our justice system. “Attorney General Sessions’ admirable decision stands in stark contrast to his predecessor, who met with former President Bill Clinton, the husband of the target of an FBI investigation, while the investigation was ongoing. Attorney General Sessions should be commended for his commitment to ensuring the Justice Department is above reproach.”
03.02.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today after introducing two bills to alter the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), the RFS Elimination Act (H.R. 1314) and the RFS Reform Act (H.R. 1315): “It’s time the ethanol mandate became a thing of the past. While well-intentioned from the start, after a decade of this policy it couldn’t be more obvious that the RFS is a flop. The RFS Elimination Act would completely repeal this mandate and force ethanol to compete in the free market. The impacts of the ethanol mandate are real. They can be felt at the pump, by livestock and food producers, and by the hardworking families facing higher prices for goods. Even environmental groups have serious concerns about this policy! Folks in the Sixth District and across the country need relief from this failed mandate. “While I would ultimately prefer to eliminate this mandate, I have also introduced the RFS Reform Act to help curb some of its most harmful effects. Leaders in the House of Representatives have signaled that there is a real appetite to reform the ethanol mandate this year. I urge my colleagues to consider the RFS Reform Act as a vehicle to guide this debate and the reform process. Not only does this bill have bipartisan backing in the House, it also has the support of a diverse coalition of organizations representing folks from every corner of the United States. As we continue to work towards full repeal, the RFS Reform Act is a common sense solution to help ease the impacts of the ethanol mandate.” Background: The RFS Elimination Act has the support of 60 cosponsors. The RFS Reform Act, which has the support of 42 bipartisan cosponsors, eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels, and decreases the total volume of renewable fuel that must be contained in gasoline sold or introduced into commerce for years 2017-2022. The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) mandates that 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels be part of our nation’s fuel supply by 2022. Almost all of this is currently being fulfilled by corn ethanol. Both the RFS Elimination Act and the RFS Reform Act will be referred to the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
02.28.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) issued the following statement praising the House Judiciary Committee’s approval of the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act of 2017 (H.R. 372) by voice vote. “Obamacare is collapsing, and hardworking Americans are the ones who are suffering because of this poorly designed law. The American people are asking Congress to take action to stop the rising costs of healthcare in the wake of Obamacare’s failure, and today’s action by the House Judiciary Committee is one of the first steps to fixing the healthcare marketplace after the disasters of the previous administration. “Repealing the McCarran-Ferguson antitrust exemption for the business of health insurance will assist in Congress’s larger goal of restoring competition to the healthcare industry and reversing the trend of rising payments and market consolidation. However, this repeal must be coupled with larger changes to the existing regulatory scheme.” Background: In 1945, Congress passed the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempts the business of insurance from federal antitrust regulation to a limited extent. The Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act would have the effect of altering the McCarran-Ferguson Act’s federal antitrust exemption so that it no longer applies to the business of health insurance. The McCarran-Ferguson Act would remain in effect for other types of insurance (e.g., car insurance or property insurance), thus maintaining a narrowly tailored federal antitrust exemption for certain practices relating to the provision of those types of services.
02.28.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in support of President Trump’s Executive Order that would set the course for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers to rescind the controversial Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule: “Rolling back red tape is key to getting America’s economic engine running again. The EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule is simply unworkable federal government overreach. The costly impacts of this rule would be far-reaching, hitting farmers, small businesses, municipalities, and local economies squarely in the pocketbook. Protecting America’s waterways is critical, but this should be a collaborative approach. We need common sense policies that will protect water quality without limiting economic growth and unfairly over-regulating local agricultural producers and economies, like those in the Sixth District of Virginia. Today’s executive action by President Trump sets the course to stop this rule in its tracks and get the EPA out of the business of micromanaging state and local water decisions.”
02.28.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued this statement following President Donald J. Trump’s first Joint Address to Congress: “Tonight, President Trump brought his message to the American people during a joint session of Congress. He articulated in very frank terms the challenges that our nation is currently facing, both at home and abroad. But he also put forth a list of bold initiatives designed to tackle these challenges and make America more competitive, make our streets safe and enhance our national security, restart America’s job creation engine, and strengthen American families. “President Trump outlined the progress that has already been made in the first weeks of his presidency. From acting to secure our borders to taking steps to start cutting through red tape by reining in the regulatory state, he has kept his word to the American people that he will advance policies to strengthen America. This is just the start – Congress now has the unique opportunity to come together to reform the tax system, enact patient-centered health care solutions, support our veterans and military, restore the rule of law, and make the immigration system work better for our country. I am focused on working with my colleagues in Congress and President Trump to advance this agenda for the people of Virginia’s Sixth District and the nation.”
02.24.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement regarding President Trump’s latest Executive Order to roll back red tape: “For years, hardworking Americans have been asking Washington to lift the burdens of red tape, and now they are finally seeing action from a unified Republican government. “The Executive Order signed by President Trump calls for greater transparency and accountability of our federal agencies, which have turned into a runaway regulatory state. By holding our regulators accountable, we are ensuring that new regulations are made smarter, and not to the detriment of American families and workers. “Already, the House has passed critical legislation to cut red tape, and it is reassuring that the Trump Administration is doing what it can as we work to pass permanent legislation to fix our regulatory system for the benefit of the American people.” Background: The Executive Order signed by President Trump will promote greater accountability and enforcement of needed regulatory reform. Measures within the Executive Order include: • Each agency will establish a regulatory reform taskforce to identify and recommend the elimination or modification of regulations that inhibit job creation, are redundant, or unnecessarily expensive. • Each taskforce is responsible for reviewing all regulations on the books within that agency. • Agencies will regularly report on their progress. • Each agency will create a regulatory reform officer (RRO). • The RRO is responsible for leading the comprehensive review within the agency and they will be looking for cost, effectiveness, necessity, and transparency. Click here to learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work to reduce the burden of government regulations.
02.21.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security’s plan to implement President Trump’s executive orders on border security and immigration enforcement: “I applaud President Trump and Secretary Kelly for taking the actions needed to help end the surge of illegal immigration at the Southwest border and restore the integrity of our immigration system. For the past eight years, the Obama Administration refused to enforce our laws and enacted policies that encouraged more illegal immigration. These actions were catastrophic: hundreds of thousands of unaccompanied minors and families attempted to illegally enter the United States, criminal aliens were allowed to roam our neighborhoods, and the rule of law was undermined. The Trump Administration has begun work to end the Obama Administration’s disastrous policies in order to ensure our immigration laws are actually enforced. I look forward to working with President Trump and Secretary Kelly to ensure they have the necessary tools to do this work and to take legislative action to make reforms permanent so that future administrations must also enforce our immigration laws.”
02.15.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement after the Senate passed a joint resolution to repeal an Obama Administration rule that restricted Americans’ right to bear arms and due process under the law. The joint resolution is now headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Goodlatte: “I applaud the Senate for joining the House in swiftly repealing an egregious Obama-era rule in order to restore Americans’ constitutional rights. The Obama Administration’s rule allows bureaucrats at the Social Security Administration to deprive disabled Americans of due process and their Second Amendment right. The rule is flat out discriminatory and denies rights that are protected by the Constitution. I thank Congressman Sam Johnson and Senator Chuck Grassley for their good work on this resolution and look forward to President Trump signing it into law.” Background: In the final days of the Obama Administration, the Social Security Administration issued a rule requiring bureaucrats to forward the names of beneficiaries who have been deemed unable to manage their financial affairs to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), which would prohibit them from purchasing a firearm. The rule covers people receiving Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income benefits and who need a representative payee to manage their financial affairs. The people affected by this rule are not given the option to appeal the removal of their names from the database until after they’ve already lost their Second Amendment right. When the rule was proposed, it received over 91,000 comments, most of them in opposition. The National Council on Disability, an independent federal agency making recommendations to the President and Congress to enhance the quality of life for all Americans with disabilities, has called on Congress to utilize the Congressional Review Act to repeal this rule. The House passed H.J. Res. 40 on February 2, 2017. The resolution is bipartisan and is supported by over 20 groups.
02.15.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement upon the House Judiciary Committee’s approval of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2017 (H.R. 985) by a vote of 19-12: “Class action suits were designed to address legitimate claims. These suits were supposed to level the playing field for consumers and businesses alike to have access to a fair and just system to address their grievances. “Today, the class action litigation system has morphed into an expensive enterprise where lawyers are often the only winners, and American businesses and consumers are the losers. Frivolous class action lawsuits are costing parties millions of dollars, and trial lawyers often profit at the expense of deserving victims. “Over ten years ago, I authored the Class Action Fairness Act, which was signed into law to curb abuses in the class action litigation system. Since then, lawyers have been able to find loopholes in the law, and new measures are required to protect innocent individuals and businesses who have become the victims of frivolous suits. “When baseless claims come into our courtrooms, the real losers are hardworking Americans. Today’s action addresses the abuses within our class action litigation system, and keeps baseless class action suits away from innocent parties, while still keeping the doors to justice open for parties with real and legitimate claims.” Background: Introduced by Chairman Goodlatte, provisions of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act (FICALA) seek to maximize recoveries by deserving victims, and weed out unmeritorious claims that would otherwise siphon resources away from innocent parties. Among the legislation’s reforms, the bill requires that classes consist of members with the same type and scope of injury. Under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury. The bill also contains additional provisions to: Prohibit judges from approving class actions in which the lawyer representing the class is a relative of a party in the class action suit. Require that class action lawyers should only get paid after the victims get paid. Order any third-party funding agreement be disclosed to the district court.
02.14.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the announcement that U.S. Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy plans to retire in March: “Director Clancy has served our nation honorably for decades by protecting several Presidents, their families, and the White House complex from harm. Under Director Clancy’s leadership, the Secret Service did a stellar job protecting presidential candidates during the 2016 election. He also helped restore professionalism at the agency after a series of security lapses and incidents of misconduct over the past few years. I have the utmost respect for Director Clancy and his leadership, and I wish him all the best as he leaves the Secret Service.”
02.10.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement upon the introduction of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2017 (H.R. 985): “Due to the complexity and costs associated with our legal system, a lawsuit has become a dirty word in America. Our courts were founded on the principle that any American could have access to a just and fair outlet to solve their problems under the law. “The current state of class action litigation has become an expensive business, and one easily gamed by trial lawyers to their own advantages. Frivolous lawsuits can cost parties millions of dollars. When baseless class action suits come before our courts, it not only impacts companies, but it has an impact on the American consumer who gets less, while lawyers get more. “I was pleased to author the Class Action Fairness Act, which was signed into law over 10 years ago, and since then, I have been proposing new measures to protect innocent individuals and small businesses who have become the targets of frivolous suits by attorneys who have found loopholes in our civil litigation system. Now, we have an opportunity to close those loopholes, and make our justice system work in a fair and honest manner for everyone. “The reforms introduced today will keep baseless class action suits away from innocent parties, while still keeping the doors to justice open for parties with real and legitimate claims, and maximizing their recoveries.” Background: Provisions of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act seek to maximize recoveries by deserving victims, and weed out unmeritorious claims that would otherwise siphon resources away from innocent parties. Among the legislation’s reforms, the bill requires that classes consist of members with the same type and scope of injury. Under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury. The bill also contains additional provisions to: • Prohibit judges from approving class actions in which the lawyer representing the class is a relative of a party in the class action suit. • Require that class action lawyers should only get paid after the victims get paid. • Order any third-party funding agreement be disclosed to the district court.
02.09.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive action to protect law enforcement, strengthen public safety, fight crime, and dismantle drug cartels: “Our nation continues to face a number of public safety threats, and I applaud President Trump for taking action to improve the security of our communities. Over the past year, we’ve witnessed an increase in attacks on law enforcement officers, a rise in violent crime in our nation’s cities, and a continued flow of illicit and dangerous drugs pouring into the United States. These threats to the rule of law and public safety must be addressed so that we protect Americans and police officers from harm. President Trump’s executive orders are a good first step toward restoring law and order, and I look forward to working with the President, Attorney General Sessions, and Secretary Kelly on other measures to increase the safety of our citizens and security of our nation.”
02.08.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General for the U.S. Department of Justice: “I commend the Senate for confirming Senator Jeff Sessions as the next Attorney General. Our nation’s top law enforcement officer has a solemn duty to ensure the rule of law and protect the American people by executing our laws impartially and fully. Senator Sessions is a man of integrity and is committed to enforcing our nation’s laws. His dedication to constitutional principles will help restore the integrity of the Department of Justice and ensure liberty and justice for all Americans. I congratulate Senator Sessions on his new role as Attorney General and look forward to working with him.”
02.07.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement upon the House Judiciary Committee’s approval of the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2017 (H.R. 732) by a vote of 17-8: “Congress must permanently end the abuses Obama’s Justice Department exploited to use settlements to funnel money to their liberal friends. DOJ has failed to listen to the legislative branch’s warnings and now Congress must end DOJ’s practice of funding pet projects with taxpayer funds.” Background: This bill bars the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other government agencies, from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of their settlement agreements with the federal government. Need for this legislation arose after an extended House Judiciary Committee investigation found that the previous administration’s DOJ had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of systematically subverting Congress’ budget authority by using settlements from financial institutions to funnel money to left-wing activist groups. This bill would permanently end this practice and restore accountability to the appropriations process. Here are additional details on the Committee’s investigation: • An investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees revealed that, in approximately just the last two years, the Obama Administration’s DOJ used mandatory donations to direct nearly a billion dollars to activist groups. • These payments occurred entirely outside of the Congressional appropriations and oversight process. • The House Judiciary Committee held two hearings, in February 2015 and May 2015, to question DOJ officials regarding these troubling settlement practices. • The Committees also sent multiple oversight letters including two to DOJ (in November 2014 and May 2015) seeking documents and answers. • The information provided confirms that activist groups which stood to gain from mandatory donation provisions were involved in placing those provisions in the settlements. • This bill is identical to the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016. A legislative hearing on that bill was held on May 28, 2016 within the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law. • The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063) passed the House by a vote of 241-174. • The House Judiciary Committee sent a letter to the DOJ on January 11, 2017, requesting a preservation of all documents related to DOJ’s settlement practices. • The investigation is ongoing.
02.07.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senator Tim Kaine (D-Va.) released the following statements after introducing legislation today in both the United States House of Representatives and Senate to lift deed use restrictions on property used for the Plains Area Day Care Center in Rockingham County: “By removing overbearing restrictions on the acre of land that the Plains Area Day Care Center is situated on, the center will be able to make much-needed upgrades to help ensure this community investment continues to thrive,” Goodlatte said. “This simple, bipartisan bill would have a significant impact on the families and children served by the non-profit day care center in Rockingham County.” “The Plains Area Day Care Center has provided high-quality and affordable child care to families in Rockingham County for more than two decades,” Kaine said. “This bill would allow the day care center to continue offering this important service to the community by making a small fix to a land-use issue impacting the center’s ability to conduct routine building repairs. This bill is bipartisan and commonsense.” Background: In 1989, the federal government deeded, with restriction, three acres of land to Rockingham County. Following that land transfer, Congress enacted Public Law 101-479 in 1990 to slightly amend those use restrictions and allow a portion of the land to house a non-profit day care center. Unfortunately, because of the narrow focus of that 1990 law as well as the terms of the deed, the day care center has been unable to secure a loan to complete much-needed renovations. This legislation introduced by Goodlatte and Kaine would remove the deed use restrictions from the one acre of property on which the building resides, allowing the day care center and Rockingham County to make needed upgrades. This legislation (H.R. 2288) was previously approved in on November 30, 2015, in the House of Representatives by a vote of 407-0.
02.06.2017	The House of Representatives today approved by voice vote the Email Privacy Act (H.R. 387) to protect Americans’ privacy and public safety in the digital age. Below is a statement from Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, applauding passage of the bill: “The U.S. Constitution protects Americans’ property from unreasonable searches and seizures and we must ensure that this principle continues to thrive in the digital age. Current law governing law enforcement’s access to electronic communications was enacted in 1986 – when mail was sent through the U.S. Postal Service, a search engine was called a library, tweets were the sounds made by birds in the trees, and clouds were found only in the sky. “As technology has far-outpaced the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986, the Email Privacy Act modernizes this decades-old law to establish a uniform warrant requirement to acquire stored electronic communications in criminal investigations. These updates to the law will better safeguard Americans’ constitutional rights while also protecting law enforcement’s ability to fight crime. As the House again has overwhelmingly approved this bill, it’s time for the Senate to take up this bipartisan legislation and send it to the President’s desk to become law.” Background: Nearly 30 years ago, Congress passed the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 to provide a fair balance between the privacy expectations of American citizens and the legitimate needs of law enforcement agencies. The law sets forth a system to protect the privacy rights of customers and subscribers of computer network service providers and governs requests to obtain stored content, records, or other information, which includes stored emails, text or instant messages, documents, videos, or sound recordings stored in the cloud. ECPA applies not only to federal criminal investigations and prosecutions, but to state and local investigations and prosecutions, public safety requests, and civil investigations in which stored communications of these types of information are sought. There is broad consensus that ECPA is outdated and contains insufficient protections for Americans’ privacy. The Email Privacy Act, sponsored by Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.), modernizes ECPA to protect Americans’ privacy and provide law enforcement with tools needed for its investigations. Last year, the House passed the bill unanimously by a vote of 419-0 but the Senate failed to act. VIDEO: Here's Why ECPA Needs Updating --> Goodlatte Speaks in Support of the Email Privacy Act Key Provisions of the Email Privacy Act: Warrant Requirement: The bill creates a uniform warrant standard for law enforcement to obtain the content of communications in criminal investigations. ECPA warrants will continue to be executed with the provider since, as with any other third-party custodian, the information is stored with them. It allows the provider to notify its customers of receipt of a warrant, court order, or subpoena, unless the provider is court ordered to delay such notification. Remote Computing Services: The bill maintains current law that delineates which remote computing service providers – or cloud providers – are subject to the warrant requirement for content in a criminal investigation. ECPA has traditionally imposed heightened legal process and procedures to obtain information for which the customer has a reasonable expectation of privacy, namely emails, texts, photos, videos, and documents stored in the cloud. Allows Law Enforcement to Access Public Information: ECPA currently makes no distinction between content disclosed to the public, like an advertisement on a website, versus content disclosed only to one or a handful of persons, like an email or text message. The result is that law enforcement would be required to obtain a warrant even for publicly-disclosed content. The bill clarifies that commercial public content can be obtained with a process other than a warrant. Maintains Congress’s Investigative Power: The bill clarifies that nothing in the law limits Congress’s authority to subpoena information from third parties in furtherance of congressional oversight.
02.02.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on House passage of a resolution (H.J. Res. 40) to repeal an Obama Administration rule in order to protect Americans’ right to bear arms and due process under the law: “The Obama Administration’s rule is discriminatory and deprives law-abiding Americans of their constitutional rights. There is no evidence suggesting that those receiving disability benefits from the Social Security Administration are a threat to public safety. Once an unelected bureaucrat unfairly adds these folks to the federal background check system, they are no longer able to exercise their Second Amendment right and face a cumbersome appeals process to remove their names from the system. “I am pleased that the House of Representatives acted swiftly to repeal this egregious rule to send the strong message that we will protect Americans’ constitutional rights. I thank Congressman Sam Johnson for his good work on this resolution and urge the Senate to pass it without delay.” Background: In the final days of the Obama Administration, the Social Security Administration issued a rule requiring bureaucrats to forward the names of beneficiaries who have been deemed unable to manage their own affairs to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS), which would prohibit them from purchasing a firearm. The rule covers people receiving Disability Insurance or Supplemental Security Income benefits and who need a representative payee to manage their affairs. The people affected by this rule are not given the option to appeal the removal of their names from the database until after they’ve already lost their Second Amendment right. When the rule was proposed, it received over 91,000 comments, most of them in opposition. The National Council on Disability, an independent federal agency making recommendations to the President and Congress to enhance the quality of life for all Americans with disabilities, has called on Congress to utilize the Congressional Review Act to repeal this rule.
02.01.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today announced his agenda for the 115th Congress in a speech before the Federalist Society at the National Press Club. Below are Chairman Goodlatte’s prepared remarks. Chairman Goodlatte: Good afternoon. It’s a pleasure to be here with you today. I find that my work as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee is a pursuit similar to the work here at the Federalist Society. For over three decades, the Federalist Society has been devoted to the preservation of our Constitutional Republic and the principles of individual liberty, the separation of powers, and the rule of law. As Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I am equally committed to safeguarding and promoting these core values. It’s both fitting and a privilege to lay out the Committee’s agenda before you today. The Judiciary Committee plays a particularly critical role in advancing pro-growth policies for hardworking Americans, ensuring that America’s laws are efficient, fair, and enforced, and guarding against the consequences of executive overreach. Under my leadership, the Judiciary Committee will continue to advance an agenda that is focused on making America more competitive and free. Our nation’s capitalist system was designed to reward innovation, efficiency, and persistence so that hardworking Americans would be uniquely situated to succeed both domestically and internationally. When the American economy is thriving, there are more job opportunities, higher wages, and lower prices for Americans. However, for far too long, our federal government has continued to pile unnecessarily complicated new burdens and red tape on American businesses, which have effectively tied the hands behind the backs of our nation’s small businesses and entrepreneurs. Viewed from another angle, these burdens on U.S. businesses subsidize our foreign competitors. It’s long past time to untie these binds and unleash American ingenuity. As House Judiciary Committee chairman, I will seek to restore accountability for and provide relief from excessive regulation for our nation’s small businesses and job creators. Federal regulations now impose an estimated burden of nearly two trillion dollars. That equals roughly $15,000 per U.S. household, over 10% of America’s GDP, and more than the GDP of all but eight countries in the world. Unfortunately, over the last eight years the Obama Administration doubled down on its determination to create a regulatory state by adding tens of thousands of regulations – including many within the last months of his presidency that could have far reaching effects for years to come. The problem with excessive regulation is that it hurts all Americans. It leads to higher prices, lower wages, fewer jobs, less economic growth, and a less competitive America. But it’s a new day in the United States. While I have been calling for these reforms for years, we now have a President, a Senate, and a House focused on enacting laws to reduce the regulatory burdens that our nation’s small businesses are facing, to get more Americans back to work, and to help grow our economy. Last month, the House approved a series of bills to rein in unnecessary red tape, create transparency within the rulemaking process, and restore power back to the American people. Given our commitment to curbing the regulatory state, it’s no surprise that optimism among America’s small businesses has soared by the most since 1980. To make America more competitive again we must also make our legal system more efficient and fair. America’s legal system is considered the costliest in the world. In fact, one study found that liability costs in the United States are more than 2.5 times that of Eurozone countries. While we must protect the ability of Americans to seek redress through the courts when they are truly damaged or injured, there are measures we can take to reduce the wasteful burden that truly frivolous lawsuits impose on American competitiveness. Like excessive regulation, frivolous lawsuits are a drain on businesses, entrepreneurs, innovators, and hardworking Americans. We can and must do better. Over the next Congress, the House Judiciary Committee plans to reform the litigation system by seeking to reduce frivolous lawsuits, making it harder for trial lawyers to game the system, and improving protections for consumers and small businesses. We’ll also work on reforms to discourage abusive patent litigation and keep U.S. patent laws up to date. Collectively, these reforms will help alleviate the wasteful burden of unnecessarily expensive litigation costs, thereby freeing small businesses to flourish, unleash innovation, and create new jobs for Americans. The House Judiciary Committee will also build upon its review of our nation’s copyright laws to ensure that America’s global leadership in creativity and innovation continues in the 21st century and beyond. At the end of 2016, we issued our first bipartisan proposal to ensure the Copyright Office keeps pace in the digital age. Among the reforms contained in our first proposal are granting the Copyright Office autonomy and requiring it to maintain an up-to-date digital, searchable database of all copyrighted works. This proposal is the first of what we intend to be numerous policy proposals to reform aspects of our copyright laws. Furthermore, to increase our competitiveness we need to get our fiscal house in order. The federal debt is nearly 20 trillion dollars. That’s over $61,000 per person! For years, the federal government’s mantra has been “borrow, spend, rinse, and repeat.” The current path is unsustainable and we must end runaway government spending. One good first step would be to pass a Balanced Budget Amendment. Since 2007, I’ve introduced proposals every Congress to require a balanced annual federal budget and prevent Congress from spending more than it receives in revenues. These proposals have received strong support over the years, and I am hopeful that we can address this problem soon so that we do not continue to impoverish our children and grandchildren by passing a massive debt on to them. The Judiciary Committee also has the solemn responsibility to ensure our laws are fair, efficient, and enforced. Under my leadership, the Committee will continue to advance an agenda that ensures our federal criminal laws are designed to appropriately punish wrongdoers, are effectively and appropriately enforced, safeguard civil liberties, increase public safety, and work as efficiently as possible. Both Ranking Member Conyers and I remain committed to passing bipartisan criminal justice reform. We must rein in the explosion of federal criminal laws, protect innocent citizens’ property from unlawful seizures, and enact forensics reforms to identify the guilty and quickly exonerate the innocent. We must also reform sentencing laws in a responsible way and improve the prison system and reentry programs to reduce recidivism. Additionally, it’s imperative that we continually examine federal criminal laws to ensure they protect civil liberties while also providing law enforcement with the tools needed to fight crime and keep us safe. This Congress, the Committee will once again work to reform the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986. This law is outdated and contains insufficient privacy protections for Americans’ email communications in today’s digital age. We must modernize this decades-old law to better protect constitutional rights without impeding law enforcement’s efforts to protect public safety. In this same vein, the Committee will also continue to explore solutions to govern law enforcement’s access to data stored overseas. The Judiciary Committee will also seek to reform and reauthorize Section 702 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The Committee has a strong record of enacting solutions that protect both privacy and national security. When Section 215 was up for reauthorization a couple of years ago, bipartisan leaders of the Judiciary Committee led the way to enact the USA Freedom Act. That law ended the bulk collection of metadata while ensuring the law enforcement community has the tools needed to keep us safe. With Section 702 set to expire at the end of the year, Committee leaders will again work together in a bipartisan fashion to ensure American’s privacy is protected as the government lawfully surveils the online activities of foreigners seeking to harm us. We must also ensure our laws protect the most vulnerable among us, the unborn. Since Roe v. Wade, nearly 60 million babies have been aborted. The House Judiciary Committee will continue its work to save more innocent lives by enacting measures to reduce abortions, help promote alternatives like adoption, and ensure taxpayer dollars are not used to fund abortions. The House Judiciary Committee also has jurisdiction over our nation’s immigration laws and we will strive to restore the rule of law and make the immigration system work better for our country. Throughout President Obama’s tenure in office, he refused to fully enforce our nation’s immigration laws and used his pen and phone to unilaterally rewrite the law. These actions are not without cost. They ignore the will of the American people, violate the Constitution, allow criminal aliens to evade the law, make our communities less safe, punish legal immigrants, and encourage more illegal immigration. Fortunately, President Trump is rolling back these abusive and overreaching actions and is committed to enforcing our nation’s immigration laws. This will help stem the tide of illegal immigration and restore integrity to our immigration system. But Congress also has an important role to play. Nearly everyone agrees that there is room for improvement in the immigration system. We must strengthen the interior enforcement of our immigration laws and remove the ability of any President to unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement. We need to ensure criminal aliens are detained and deported and end dangerous sanctuary policies that jeopardize public safety. We must also reform the asylum system, which has been increasingly abused, and make sure unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous trek to the United States are safely returned home. The House Judiciary Committee will also work to improve the legal immigration system. The United States has the most generous legal immigration system in the world. However, we select less than 12% of immigrants on the basis of the education and skills they can bring to America. And it’s only 5% if you exclude their accompanying family members. Other countries, such as Canada, the U.K., and Australia, select over 60% of immigrants based on skills. In order to remain competitive in the global economy, this must change. Additionally, we also need a workable agricultural guestworker system so that when our nation’s farmers cannot find U.S. workers, they have access to a legal workforce and are able to continue growing our crops and economy. Lastly, I want to make clear that the House Judiciary Committee will continue its important oversight work over the course of the next Congress. As explained by James Madison in the Federalist Papers, our constitutional government only works when each branch checks and restrains the others from exceeding their legal limits. Men are not angels and the House Judiciary Committee has a duty to continue its vigorous oversight of both the executive and judicial branches. We must ensure that they are bound by their constitutional limits so that we protect individual liberty and the separation of powers now and for the generations to come. The topics I outlined this afternoon are by no means exhaustive. The House Judiciary Committee has much important work to do over the next two years, including addressing many additional issues that have not been discussed today. In closing, with the President, the Senate and the House aligned, the American people have spoken and we have a unique opportunity to deliver on what Americans have been asking for for years. I am excited about the prospect we have before us to make America more competitive, deliver more jobs to hardworking Americans, protect our national security, and make Americans more free. It is truly an honor to serve our nation as chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and I look forward to continue working on the significant issues facing our great nation with the new Trump Administration.
02.01.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that he will continue to serve on the House Committee on Agriculture in the 115th Congress. Following an organizing meeting by the Committee, Chairman Mike Conaway (R-Texas) announced that Congressman Goodlatte will serve as a member of the Livestock and Foreign Agriculture Subcommittee as well as the Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and Credit Subcommittee. Congressman Goodlatte has previously served as Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Agriculture. “Agriculture is important for every American. In Virginia, the agriculture industry plays a particularly important role as the largest contributor to our economy. During my service on this Committee, I’ve had the opportunity to meet individuals from nearly every aspect of agriculture and hear how federal policies coming out of Washington directly impact their livelihoods. As lawmakers, we must ensure that American agriculture can continue to meet the needs of our nation and prevent federal red tape that would make it impossible for farmers to continue producing abundant and affordable food and fiber products. Farming has never been an easy way of life, but a strong agriculture industry and rural America is essential to our economy, our national security, our health, and our prosperity. “I am honored to continue serving on the House Committee on Agriculture. In the 115th Congress, the Agriculture Committee will have the responsibility of crafting a new Farm Bill, which sets our nation’s policy on issues ranging from managing commodities, crop insurance, rural development, forest management, conservation, nutrition, and food safety. I look forward to working with my colleagues in a bipartisan manner to advance this legislation to address the important agricultural issues facing the United States and the Sixth District of Virginia. Agriculture is not just a part of our heritage as a nation; it also plays an essential role in the future of America.”
01.31.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on media reports about Committee staff providing expertise to the Trump transition team: “My staff on the House Judiciary Committee are some of the best on Capitol Hill. They are experts in their respective fields and I proudly allowed them to provide their expertise to the Trump transition team on immigration law. To be clear, while they gave advice to the new Administration, they did not have decision making authority on the policy. The final decision was made at the highest levels of the Trump Administration, and I support the President’s executive order. My staff had no control of the language contained in the President’s executive order, the timing of the announcement, the rollout and subsequent implementation, and the coordination with Congress. I am proud of my staff—they are an asset to me, Congress, and the American people.”
01.31.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement upon the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch by President Donald Trump to be the next Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States: “The president’s power to make nominations to the Supreme Court is one that has lasting effects on the legal landscape of our country. The next justice to the Supreme Court should be one who will uphold the original meaning of the Constitution, judge cases fairly before the Court, and one that has true respect for the Constitution’s place in our system of government and the limited powers it grants. “Judge Gorsuch’s career on the federal bench has proven that he is committed to upholding these principles found in our country’s most sacred document. Judge Gorsuch is eminently qualified, and widely respected among his peers, and I hope to see him confirmed by the Senate.” “The people entrusted President Trump to make nominations such as Judge Gorsuch to the federal bench when he was elected in November, and I am pleased that the President is keeping his promise to the people.”
01.30.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today in response to reports of yet another ballistic missile test by Iran in violation of a United Nations (U.N.) resolution: “Iran’s track record has made it clear that they do not intend to play by the rules. Since the signing of the flawed nuclear agreement by the Obama Administration, Iran has deliberately violated a U.N. resolution by conducting multiple ballistic missile tests. On Sunday, the Iranian regime reportedly defied international law once again by launching another test weapon. Iran’s ballistic missile tests fly in the face of its neighbors in the Middle East and the United States, and this blatant defiance cannot be swept under the rug. Unlike the Iran Nuclear Agreement, which has done little to curb Iran’s aggression, the United States must continue to stand our ground against Iran’s dangerous actions, and take a strong foreign policy stance to hold the Iranian regime accountable. Ignoring Iran’s hostility is far too great of a risk.”
01.30.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s executive action on regulations: “A tidal wave of red tape has been impacting hardworking Americans for too long, and today’s action will finally help stem that tide. “For years, I have been putting forward ideas to curb the amount of red tape having negative impacts on American jobs, America’s economy, and America’s competitiveness. Finally, Americans are seeing real action to fix our broken regulatory system and take away the blank check agencies have been given to impose new regulations. “Today’s Executive action by the White House, along with ultimate enactment of the Regulatory Accountability Act, the REINS Act and the Midnight Rules Relief Act, which the House has already passed, offer true solutions for lifting unnecessary regulatory burdens from the American people. This is what the American people should expect from a unified government: action.” Click here to learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work on regulations.
01.27.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement in support of the 44th annual March for Life held in Washington, D.C.: “It is truly awe inspiring every year to see so many Americans make their way to Washington, D.C. to march in support of the most innocent Americans who have no voice – the unborn. “I’ve been fighting for the rights of the unborn for years, but we have a unique opportunity now to enact laws to protect the most vulnerable members of our society. “I look forward to working with President Trump to end the federal government’s support for groups that promote abortion practices, and to further protect the unborn. “The work already done by the House of Representatives and the White House is a message to those who march in Washington that the U.S. government has not forgotten about your respect for life, and the need to protect millions of unborn children.” Background: Earlier this week, the House passed the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (H.R. 7), and President Trump signed an Executive Order banning international nonprofit groups from receiving federal money to provide abortion services. Photo: A group from the Sixth District stopped by the Capitol on the way to the March for Life.
01.27.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive action to strengthen national security by closing gaping holes in the refugee program and other components of the immigration system: “The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe. Today, President Trump has begun to fulfill this responsibility by taking a number of critical steps within his authority to strengthen national security and the integrity of our nation’s immigration system. As ISIS terrorists have vowed to use the immigration system to inflict harm, it’s imperative that we know who is coming and going from our country. National security officials have repeatedly warned that we dramatically lack the resources and information to fully vet refugees from countries of concern, like Syria. “Unlike his predecessor, I am pleased that President Trump is using the tools granted to him by Congress and the power granted by the Constitution to help keep America safe and ensure we know who is entering the United States. It’s sensible to hit pause on admitting foreign nationals and refugees from countries where adequate screening cannot occur, and it’s long past time for the completion of the Entry-Exit system in order to crack down on those who overstay their visas. I look forward to continue working with President Trump to ensure the safety and security of our great nation.”
01.25.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on President Trump’s executive orders to secure the border and enforce immigration laws: “President Trump has begun to deliver on his promises by taking sensible action to secure the border and enforce the law. For the past eight years, our country suffered under the Obama Administration’s lax enforcement of immigration laws. The Obama Administration’s policies compromised Americans’ safety by allowing dangerous criminal aliens to remain in the United States and by refusing to crack down on sanctuary policies. Its policies also undermined the integrity of our immigration system and led to the surge of Central American minors and families seeking to come to the U.S. illegally. “President Trump’s executive action will reverse the Obama Administration’s disastrous policies in order to help secure the border, prevent human trafficking, enhance public safety, and stop illegal immigration. I look forward to working with President Trump to take legislative action to further enhance border security, restore the rule of law, and improve our nation’s immigration laws.”
01.24.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement following the passage of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full Disclosure Act of 2017 (H.R. 7) by a vote of 238-183: “The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act codifies the most bipartisan, longstanding pro-life proposal, the Hyde Amendment, and frees taxpayers from subsidizing the egregious practice of abortion or insurance coverage that includes abortion. “Over the last 40 years it is estimated that millions of lives have been saved thanks to the Hyde Amendment. We must continue to speak for the defenseless and protect their fundamental human right to be born into this world. “Along with this legislation, the Executive Order signed this week by President Trump to prohibit federal funding of abortion services overseas is a clear sign that Republicans are serious about protecting the unborn.” Background: H.R. 7 codifies the two core principles of the Hyde Amendment throughout the operations of the federal government: a ban on federal funding for abortions and a ban on the use of federal funds for health benefits coverage that includes coverage of abortion.
01.20.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today marking the inauguration of President Donald J. Trump as the 45th President of the United States of America: “Today, we again observed the peaceful transfer of power – a true testament to the system of government established by our Founding Fathers and to the American people. From George Washington’s inauguration 228 years ago to the swearing-in of President Trump, our Republic has stood as a bastion of freedom and liberty and an example for many in other parts of the world. We are one nation, and now is the time to unite around our new Commander in Chief. “The lesson to be learned from this election is that many Americans are tired of business as usual. They want to shake things up in Washington. This is a new day for America, and I am excited for the opportunity to advance an agenda that will tackle some of the greatest challenges faced by this country. I look forward to working with President Trump to ensure that America remains the greatest nation in the world.”
01.20.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Senate’s confirmation of General John Kelly as Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security: “I commend the Senate for quickly confirming General Kelly as the next Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. General Kelly has served and protected our country honorably for decades and is uniquely situated to lead the Department of Homeland Security. He commanded troops during the war in Iraq and headed the U.S. Southern Command. Throughout his distinguished military career, General Kelly understood and responded to the threats facing the United States and saw the sacrifices made to protect our freedom. He will bring much needed leadership to a department that was deeply politicized during the Obama Administration. I look forward to working with General Kelly in his new role to ensure our nation is kept safe, our immigration laws are administered fairly, and they are actually enforced.”
01.18.2017	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) and Morgan Griffith (VA-09) today issued the following statement upon receiving the final report of the audit they requested in May 2016 from the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the United States Postal Service (USPS) regarding consolidation of mail processing operations at the Roanoke, VA, Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC) into the Greensboro P&DC: “We appreciate receiving the OIG report on the impact of consolidation between the Roanoke and Greensboro Processing and Distribution Centers. Going forward, we will continue to press for answers and solutions as our constituents voice complaints about the timeliness and quality of mail delivery in the Roanoke region. To be clear, we are not satisfied with the overall delivery standards of mail nationwide, and will continue to work with our colleagues on solutions that can strengthen the financial stability of USPS, while improving standards of service for our constituents.” Background After Goodlatte and Griffith began receiving a significant increase in communications regarding lost or delayed mail, the timing of which strongly suggested a connection to the closing of the Roanoke processing facility, on May 26, 2016, they sent a letter to the USPS OIG requesting an audit. A copy of that original request may be found here.
01.17.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced the bipartisan Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2017 (H.R. 522) with the support of every Republican Member of the House Judiciary Committee as an original cosponsor. This bill bars the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other government agencies, from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of their settlement agreements with the federal government. Need for this legislation arose after an extended House Judiciary Committee investigation found that DOJ had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of systematically subverting Congress’ budget authority by using settlements from financial institutions to funnel money to left-wing activist groups. This bill would end this practice and restore accountability to the appropriations process. Goodlatte released the following statement upon the introduction of the bill: “This bill is oversight and action. Congress must not tolerate Justice Department political appointees using settlements to funnel money to their liberal friends. “This is also an institutional issue. Once direct victims have been compensated, deciding what to do with additional funds recovered from defendants becomes a policy question properly decided by elected representatives in Congress, not agency bureaucrats or prosecutors.” Background: • The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2017 prohibits DOJ settlements that require or provide for payments to non-victim third-parties. It states explicitly that payments to provide restitution for actual harm directly caused, including harm to the environment, are permissible. • An investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees reveals that, in approximately just the last two years, DOJ has used mandatory donations to direct nearly a billion dollars to activist groups. • These payments occur entirely outside of the congressional appropriations and oversight process. • The House Judiciary Committee held two hearings, in February 2015 and May 2015, to question DOJ officials regarding these troubling settlement practices. • The Committees also sent multiple oversight letters including two to DOJ (in November 2014 and May 2015) seeking documents and answers. • What information has been provided confirms that activist groups which stood to gain from mandatory donation provisions were involved in placing those provisions in the settlements. • This bill is identical to the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016. A legislative hearing on that bill was held on May 28, 2016 within the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law. • The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063) passed the House by a vote of 241-174. • The House Judiciary Committee sent a letter to the DOJ on January 11, 2017, requesting a preservation of all documents related to DOJ’s settlement practices. • The investigation is ongoing.
01.17.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on President Obama’s commutation of Army Private Chelsea Manning’s prison sentence: “Private Manning betrayed the United States by providing classified national security information to WikiLeaks. In leaking sensitive government documents, Private Manning jeopardized both the safety of Americans deployed overseas and the security of the United States. These treasonous actions warrant a full prison term, not a shorter sentence. “Over the course of his presidency, President Obama has used his pen and phone to act as legislator and judge. He’s taken actions to effectively rewrite laws, failed to fully enforce laws, and commuted the prison sentences for more federal prison inmates than the past 12 presidents combined. It’s not surprising that, during his last few days in office, President Obama once again has used the President’s pardon power to promote a political agenda.”
01.13.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of a resolution, S. Con. Res. 3, to initiate the reconciliation process in order to repeal the Affordable Care Act, more commonly known as Obamacare: “Unaffordable premiums, deductibles through the roof, losing a doctor you’ve had for years, being dropped from the coverage you need – these are just some of the ways Obamacare isn’t working for Virginians. No amount of patches or delays can resuscitate Obamacare from its failures. That is exactly why Congress is getting to work on the process to repeal and replace this law. “Before Congress can implement a new health care system that puts patients first, we have to get rid of what is not working. The resolution I supported today is the first step toward repeal by triggering the reconciliation process. As we work toward final legislation to repeal Obamacare, Congress must also ensure that there is a stable transition period between the two plans. Crafting a new system that works for Americans is of the utmost importance, and lawmakers in the House are already hard at work on a replacement system that promotes more choices and lower costs. As the United States prepares for a new Administration, now is the time to reverse the flawed policies of Obamacare and implement real, patient-centered health care reforms.” For more information on the House’s Better Way agenda, click here.
01.12.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement today announcing his nomination of several students from the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to our nation’s service academies as members of the graduating Class of 2021: “Today’s students are tomorrow’s leaders. At our nation’s service academies, students have the opportunity to receive a quality educational experience and training to become the next generation of leaders. It is my honor to nominate these young men and women to compete for an appointment to a service academy. I am confident that the students selected for an appointment will serve the United States with distinction. Folks in the Sixth District can be proud of these nominees. I wish them the best and thank them for being willing to serve their country.” Sixth District Nominations for the Class of 2021 U.S. Air Force Academy Theodore Drewes, son of Martina and John Drewes, is a senior at William Byrd High School and a resident of Roanoke. Jared Harvey, son of Patty and Martin Harvey, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Hudson Hill, son of Kate and Jeff Hill, is a senior at Broadway High School and a resident of Broadway. Madelyn Lawrence, daughter of Victoria and Gerald Lawrence, is a senior at Turner Ashby High School and a resident of Rockingham County. Shennan Waldron, daughter of Wynne and Raymond Waldron, is a senior at Central High School and a resident of Fort Valley. Noah Webb, son of Rebecca and Robert Webb, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. Ethan Wright, son of Anita Kablinger and Douglas Wright, is a senior at Roanoke Catholic School and a resident of Troutville. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Evans Edwards, son of Anne and Evans Edwards, is a senior at Faith Christian School and a resident of Roanoke. Jared Harvey, son of Patty and Martin Harvey, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. U.S. Military Academy at West Point Evan Muller, son of Pattie and Chris Muller, is a senior at Patrick Henry High School and a resident of Roanoke. Seth B. Ranowsky, son of Susan and Jeff Ranowsky, is a graduate of Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Addison Ritchie, son of Faye and Greg Ritchie, is a senior at Broadway High School and a resident of Broadway. U.S. Naval Academy Lucas Arnold, son of Laura and Scott Arnold, is a senior at North Cross School and a resident of Roanoke. Sean T. Bell, son of Tamicka Gaynor-Bell, is a graduate of Randolph-Macon Academy and is a student at the Naval Academy Preparatory School. He is a resident of Front Royal. Kyle Bryant, son of Peggy and Jesse Bryant, is a senior at Wilson Memorial High School and a resident of Fishersville. Evans Edwards, son of Anne and Evans Edwards, is a senior at Faith Christian School and a resident of Roanoke. Jonathan “Baker” Haviland, son of Elizabeth and Beckton Haviland, is a senior at Cave Spring High School and a resident of Roanoke. Veronica Hine, daughter of Mary and Richard Hine, is a senior at Bishop Sullivan Catholic High School and a resident of Elkton. Ann Jackson, daughter of Deborah Jackson, is a senior at Cave Spring High School and a resident of Roanoke. Grace Long, daughter of Martine and Scott Long, is a senior at Liberty Christian Academy and a resident of Lynchburg. Ryan Mitchell, son of Leslie and Scott Mitchell, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School, and a resident of Roanoke. Banner Plumb, son of Leanna and Mnason Plumb, is a senior at Cave Spring High School and a resident of Roanoke. Sarah Price, daughter of Theresa and Craig Price, is a senior at Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Ronald Pritchard, Jr., son of Theresa and Ronald Pritchard, is a senior at Patrick Henry High School and a resident of Roanoke. Madeline C. Pruzan, daughter of Michael Pruzan and Katherine Wimmer, is a senior at William Byrd High School and a resident of Roanoke. Lane Ruggieri, son of Whitney and Richard Ruggieri, is a senior at E.C. Glass High School and a resident of Lynchburg. Augustine Siegel, son of Nikki and Harold Siegel, is a senior at Chelsea Academy and a resident of Front Royal. Jack Thompson, son of Teryn Gaynor and Craig Thompson, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Garrett Walsh, son of Laura and Bernie Walsh, is a senior at William Byrd High School and a resident of Roanoke.
01.11.2017	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) joined Congressman Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) to introduce the Relief from New Source Performance Standards Act of 2017, legislation that would delay emission standards for new residential wood and pellet stoves, hydronic heaters, and forced-air furnaces by three years. Goodlatte: “Affordable heat is important to my constituents, and federal regulations must take into account the real world needs and time constraints of industries, like wood stove manufacturers, that make these products. This bill is a simple one – it gives wood stove manufacturers the time they need to comply with federal regulations and develop new technologies. I’m pleased to join Rep. Peterson in introducing this bipartisan bill.” Peterson: “Wood stove manufacturers and consumers simply want to safely and effectively heat their homes during cold winters but further regulations on wood and pellet stoves will make this more difficult. This bipartisan bill will provide the time necessary to meet new requirements without penalizing manufacturers as they seek to make improvements for consumers using these stoves.” The legislation follows a March 2015 EPA rule requiring a significant reduction of particulate matter in wood heater emissions through a two-step process. The second step forces further restrictions within an unworkable time frame. Delaying this second requirement to May 15, 2023, will provide manufacturers the time needed to make the technological advancements in new, efficient wood stoves. Reps. Jason Smith (R-Mo.), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Jason Lewis (R-Minn.), Tom Emmer (R-Minn.), James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Ron Kind (D-Wis.), are original cosponsors.
01.11.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Regulatory Reform, Commercial, and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), House Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), House Judiciary Committee member Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), and Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.) released the following statement following the House passage of the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 (H.R. 5) by a vote of 238-183. “All regulations come with a price tag and hardworking Americans, as well as businesses large and small, must cover those costs. As more regulations add up, American businesses become less competitive, prices increase, job opportunities and wages decrease for struggling Americans, and our country is less competitive. “The key to faster and stronger growth of our economy should be reforming our runaway regulatory state. The Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 works to reverse the negative impact regulations are having on our economy and reforms the rulemaking process to help the American people. “The current regulatory system lacks transparency and hurts American small businesses. There is a better way to create a regulatory system that works for the American economy, and the Regulatory Accountability Act is that solution.” Background: The Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 is strong, bipartisan reform to solve the problem of overreaching, ill-considered, insufficiently checked-and-balanced federal regulation. It brings together six separate reform bills that have already passed the House with bipartisan support in previous Congresses. Collectively, its provisions would: • Require agencies to choose the lowest-cost rulemaking alternative that meets statutory objectives, permitting costlier rules only when cost-justified and needed to protect public health, safety, or welfare. (Title I—Regulatory Accountability Act, introduced by Chairman Goodlatte) • Require greater opportunity for public input and vetting of critical information—especially for major and billion-dollar rules. (Title I—Regulatory Accountability Act) • Repeal the Chevron and Auer doctrines to end judicial deference to overreaching agency statutory and regulatory interpretations. (Title II—Separation of Powers Restoration Act, introduced by Rep. Ratcliffe) • Require agencies to account for the direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of new regulations on small businesses—and find flexible ways to reduce them. (Title III—Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act, introduced by Chairman Chabot) • Prohibit new billion-dollar rules from taking effect until courts can resolve timely-filed litigation challenging their promulgation. (Title IV—REVIEW Act, introduced by Subcommittee Chairman Marino) • Force agencies to publish online, timely information about regulations in development and their expected nature, cost and timing. (Title V—ALERT Act, introduced by Rep. Ratcliffe) • Publish plain-language, online summaries of new proposed rules, so the public can understand what agencies actually propose to do. (Title VI—Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act, introduced by Rep. Luetkemeyer)
01.10.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch requesting that the Department of Justice (DOJ) preserve all documents related to the Department’s controversial settlement practices. Goodlatte’s letter notes that of particular interest are “civil settlements that provide for or direct payments to non-victim third-parties, DOJ’s policies and practices relating to the settlement and administrative processing of class actions, and, more generally, cases in which payment was sought from the Judgment Fund, including DOJ’s efforts to settle with insurers claiming ‘risk corridor’ payments under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.” As Goodlatte explains in the letter, it is important that DOJ preserve all documents related to the abuses because, as “bills to address these abuses are pending, it is important that the public have a full picture of the troubling practices that have caused Members to offer and support legislation addressing them.” Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch, Federal law requires each agency to preserve official records documenting that agency’s “policies, decisions, procedures and essential transactions.” I ask that you give special attention to preserving records pertaining to the Justice Department’s settlement practices. Of particular interest are DOJ’s pursuit, since 2013, of civil settlements that provide for or direct payments to non-victim third-parties, DOJ’s policies and practices relating to the settlement and administrative processing of class actions, and, more generally, cases in which payment was sought from the Judgment Fund, including DOJ’s efforts to settle with insurers claiming “risk corridor” payments under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. As you know, a Judiciary Committee investigation has revealed that, in just the last two years, DOJ has directed nearly $1 billion to activist groups, entirely outside of Congress’s spending and oversight authority. While the Committee has inspected certain communications in connection with that investigation, the set of relevant documents has since expanded, because DOJ has refused to respect Congress’s bipartisan concerns and has instead persisted in the practice of providing for or directing third-party payments. For example, in June 2016, the Environment and Natural Resources Division announced a settlement requiring Volkswagen to pay $2 billion to increase the use of electric vehicles. This spending has not been justified by the Department as a mitigation payment, because the settlement states explicitly that a separate $2.7 billion “mitigation trust” payment would “fully mitigate” the pollution that Volkswagen caused. Rather, DOJ has used the settlement to fund the current Administration’s electric vehicle initiative after Congress has twice refused to pay for it. The Committee is also concerned about the handling of claims against the United States. For example, a New York Times exposé revealed that, in 2010, senior administration officials orchestrated a billion-dollar class action settlement over “vehement objections” of career attorneys, who insisted there was no federal liability. Nevertheless, this Committee still knows very little about the circumstances surrounding this settlement and others like it. While the Judgment Fund has been used to pay for many of these class action settlements, its consideration or use in other contexts also has received increased media attention. The Judgment Fund, for example, is being considered as a source of funds to pay insurers for amounts allegedly owed to them for their participation in the Affordable Care Act’s “risk corridor” program, despite Congress’ action to preclude the use of taxpayer funds for that purpose and at least one federal court ruling that no money is owed. The Judgment Fund’s use to pay the interest in a recent settlement with Iran has also raised concerns. As bills to address these abuses are pending, it is important that the public have a full picture of the troubling practices that have caused Members to offer and support legislation addressing them. Accordingly, it is imperative that the Department preserve all records pertaining to its settlement practices regarding third-party payments, class action settlements negotiated by DOJ since 2008, and DOJ’s use of the Judgment Fund, including, but not limited to, efforts to settle with insurers claiming they are owed risk corridor payments. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee
01.09.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement to honor and recognize our nation’s law enforcement officers on National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day: “On National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, I want to extend my deepest gratitude and support to the law enforcement officers across the country who serve and protect our communities. Our nation was founded on the rule of law and law enforcement officers continually carry out this core principle of our Republic. “Every day, law enforcement officers across the United States place their lives on the line in order to protect their fellow Americans. They protect our neighborhoods from criminals, fight crime, ensure justice, and keep the peace. Last year, our nation witnessed a disturbing rise in cold-hearted and merciless attacks against police officers, including those in Dallas, Baton Rouge, and beyond. These horrific attacks on the men and women wearing the badge heightened our country’s awareness of the sacrifices they and their families make daily to keep us safe from danger. “As chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I stand shoulder to shoulder with our nation’s law enforcement officers and remain committed to finding solutions to reduce violence and aggression towards them. These brave men and women are heroes and deserve to be recognized and honored for their service to our country.”
01.05.2017	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Judiciary Committee member, and bill sponsor, Doug Collins (R-Ga.) released the following statements upon House passage of the Regulations From the Executive In Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act (H.R. 26) by a vote of 237-187. Chairman Goodlatte: “Regulations of any kind always come with a price tag, but the ones we address today have the highest costs over all others. Over 150 billion dollars were added to the regulatory price tag last year alone, and that huge burden takes a toll on the American economy. When major rules are passed without enough consideration for the impact they may have on hardworking Americans, jobs are lost, prices rise, and our country loses more of its competitive edge. It’s time for Congress to be a stronger check on the regulatory system, and decide if major regulations should be implemented before they begin to have an impact on our economy.” Congressman Collins: “Last year saw the implementation of 76 major rules with a cumulative economic effect of billions of dollars, so it’s easy to grasp that our country needs to rein in rogue federal rulemaking now more than ever. My colleagues in Congress and the incoming administration are united in our commitment to regulatory reform and want to make sure that executive agencies actually serve Americans rather than handicapping their economy—that’s what the REINS Act will help accomplish.” Background: The bill curbs unnecessary regulations from agencies and holds federal bureaucrats accountable for imposing the heaviest burdens on America’s economy. The REINS Act requires that federal agencies submit major regulations (those that cost the economy $100 million or more) to Congress for approval; guarantees that no major regulation becomes effective until Congress approves it; and requires an expedited up or down vote on major rules within 70 legislative days. The REINS Act was passed during the previous three Congresses, and reintroduced on the opening day of the 115th Congress by Congressman Collins.
01.04.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement upon the House’s passage of the Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 21) by a vote of 238-184. Goodlatte: “Costly regulations are a burden on the American economy, and should not be used as a political tool by presidential administrations during their last months in office to push regulations that are often broad, costly, and partisan. This additional tool to combat abusive midnight rules will help end the practice of bureaucrats ramming through hastily-considered new regulations after the American people have chosen a new direction for America. “An end to the abuse of Midnight Rules will stop the current and future administrations from issuing new regulations just to further a political agenda, with costly impacts that could outlast the administration itself.” Background: The Midnight Rules Relief Act introduced by Congressman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) creates a rapid-response method for Congress to overturn an outgoing presidential administration’s attempts to impose hurried regulations without the transparency and scrutiny expected in normal regulatory implementation. The bill specifically amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to allow Congress to overturn multiple midnight rules to more quickly stop midnight rules which are truly problematic – such as those that defy the message sent by the voters or those that have been poorly designed in the haste of the midnight rule period. The House passed the Midnight Rules Relief Act during the 114th Congress as well. Click here to learn more about the bill.
01.03.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the decision by the House Republican Conference to amend the House Rules package and remove certain provisions regarding the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE) that were authored by Goodlatte and adopted by the House Republican Conference yesterday: “The House must have a rules package under which to operate and serve our constituents, and ultimately accepting the amendment from Majority Leader McCarthy was the only way to ensure passage. While I understand the need to do so, I am wholly disappointed that these important reforms to strengthen due process rights and the mission of the OCE did not move forward. Gross misrepresentation by opponents of my amendment, and the media willing to go along with this agenda, resulted in a flurry of misconceptions and unfounded claims about the true purpose of this amendment. To be perfectly clear, the OCE has a serious and important role in the House, and my amendment would have done nothing to impede their work or lessen the high ethical standards to which all Members of Congress should be held. I look forward to passing a House Rules package this afternoon and getting down to the important business the American people elected us to perform.”
01.03.2017	On the first day of the 115th Congress, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced two balanced budget constitutional amendments in the U.S. House of Representatives. Goodlatte has introduced balanced budget amendments every Congress since the 110th Congress. H.J. Res. 1 is a four-part balanced budget amendment. It contains a requirement for a balanced annual federal budget, places a spending cap on annual federal spending, imposes a three-fifths supermajority vote requirement to increase the debt limit, and a three-fifths supermajority requirement to raise taxes. The same resolution was introduced last Congress and gained 91 cosponsors. H.J. Res. 2 is identical to the balanced budget amendment considered in the House of Representatives in the 112th Congress, which received 261 bipartisan votes when it came to the House floor. This resolution requires that Congress not spend more than it receives in revenues. It also requires a true majority of each chamber to pass tax increases and a three-fifths majority to raise the debt limit. Last Congress, 110 cosponsors signed onto the resolution. Goodlatte issued the following statement: “Nearly 20 years ago, the U.S. Senate failed by one vote to pass a balanced budget constitutional amendment. If Congress had sent the amendment to the states for ratification in 1995, we would not be facing the fiscal crisis we are today and balancing the federal budget would be the norm rather than the exception. In order for Congress to consistently make the tough decisions necessary for fiscal responsibility, Congress must have the external pressure of a balanced budget requirement. “Every Congress since 2007, I have introduced amendments that require Congress to balance the federal budget. I urge my colleagues to consider the impact that reckless spending has on our nation’s future and on future generations. We should not pass on to our children and grandchildren the bleak fiscal future that our unsustainable spending is creating. “It is time for Congress to finally put an end to fiscal irresponsibility and stop saddling future generations with crushing debts to pay for our current spending. We must rise above partisanship and join together to send a balanced budget amendment to the states for ratification.”
01.03.2017	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement upon the introduction of the Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 (H.R. 5): “If we want to see better and faster growth within our economy, reforming our regulatory system must be at the center of our nation’s focus. The runaway regulatory state is creating hidden costs on hardworking Americans and small business owners alike. As these costs grow and continue to burden our economy, we are losing jobs and wages to thousands of regulations. “The Regulatory Accountability Act is a major step to reverse the negative effects regulations are having on our economy. The bill promotes making the regulatory process more transparent for the American people; increases the power of the people’s elected representatives and the courts to stop overreaching new rulemaking; and lets the public have the full say they deserve in the rulemaking process. “The barriers regulations have built halt economic growth but those burdens can be lifted, and Congress has the opportunity to make our economy work for hardworking Americans again.” Background: The legislative package combines a series of regulatory reform initiatives reported out of the House Judiciary Committee and passed by the House of Representatives during the 114th Congress. The bill aims to eliminate overly-burdensome red tape and regulations in order to lift unnecessary burdens on hardworking Americans and to promote jobs, innovation, and economic growth. The Regulatory Accountability Act of 2017 is strong, bipartisan reform to solve the problem of overreaching, ill-considered, insufficiently checked-and-balanced federal regulation. It brings together six separate reform bills that have already passed the House with bipartisan support in previous Congresses. Collectively, its provisions would: • Require agencies to choose the lowest-cost rulemaking alternative that meets statutory objectives and require greater opportunity for public input and vetting of critical information—especially for major and billion-dollar rules. (Title I—Regulatory Accountability Act) • Repeal the Chevron and Auer doctrines to end judicial deference to bureaucrats’ statutory and regulatory interpretations. (Title II—Separation of Powers Restoration Act) • Require agencies to account for the direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts of new regulations on small businesses—and find flexible ways to reduce them. (Title III—Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act) • Prohibit new billion-dollar rules from taking effect until courts can resolve timely-filed litigation challenging their promulgation. (Title IV—REVIEW Act) • Force agencies to publish online, timely information about regulations in development and their expected nature, costs, and timing. (Title V—ALERT Act) • Publish plain-language, online summaries of new proposed rules, so the public can understand what agencies actually propose to do. (Title VI—Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act)
01.03.2017	On Thursday, January 5, 2017, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, will lead the reading of the U.S. Constitution from the floor of the House of Representatives. The House Rules Package, adopted by the House on January 3, 2017, provides for the reading at the request of Goodlatte. Goodlatte will lead the reading of the Constitution beginning at 10:00 a.m. The reading is open to all Members who are interested in participating and is expected to take between one and two hours. Members will read the Constitution and amendments on a first come, first served basis. Goodlatte: “This week Members of Congress will come together on the floor of the House of Representatives to read aloud the U.S. Constitution, the very document we as Members swear an oath to uphold. There is no better way to start the 115th Congress than by reflecting on and recommitting ourselves to the fundamental founding principles enshrined in the Constitution. I am proud to continue this new tradition for the fourth consecutive Congress, and look forward to seeing many of my colleagues from both sides of the aisle participate.” The U.S. Constitution was first read at the beginning of the 112th Congress when Republicans regained the majority.
01.02.2017	The House Republican Conference adopted an amendment to the House Rules package offered by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) this evening that would strengthen the mission of the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE), improve due process rights for those subject to an investigation, and ensure that complaints made by the public have a strong venue for review. A background and summary of the amendment is included below. Goodlatte: “The amendment builds upon and strengthens the existing Office of Congressional Ethics by maintaining its primary area of focus of accepting and reviewing complaints from the public and referring them, if appropriate, to the Committee on Ethics. It also improves upon due process rights for individuals under investigation, as well as witnesses called to testify. The OCE has a serious and important role in the House, and this amendment does nothing to impede their work.” Goodlatte Amendment to H. Res. 5 Concerning the Office of Congressional Ethics HISTORY: The Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE) was created by the Democrat majority and Speaker Nancy Pelosi in 2008 in response to several ethical cases by Members which eventually led to federal jail time for each. These included bribery from Reps. Duke Cunningham (R-Calif.), William Jefferson (D-La.), and Rep. Bob Ney (R-Ohio). The intent of OCE was to supplement the existing House Ethics Committee and create a separate body eligible to accept complaints from the general public, something that Ethics does not allow. The last eight years have provided a significant body of results which allow for a thorough review of their governing structure. SUMMARY: The Goodlatte amendment builds upon and strengthens the existing OCE by maintaining its primary area of focus – accepting and reviewing constituent complaints – while improving upon due process rights for individuals under investigation, as well as witnesses called to testify. Feedback from Members and staff having gone through review by the OCE has been that those under investigation need increased protection of their due process rights, greater access to basic evidentiary standards, and a process that does not discriminate against them for invoking those rights. The amendment seeks to strengthen each of these needs while maintaining the basic core of OCE’s functions. The Amendment renames the “Office of Congressional Ethics” the “Office of Congressional Complaint Review,” to avoid confusion with the House Ethics Committee, and places the Office under the oversight of the Committee on Ethics. Additionally, because of the sensitive and confidential nature of the investigations, the amendment provides protections against any disclosures to the public or other government entities, and requires that any matter that may involve a violation of criminal law must be referred to the Committee on Ethics for potential referral to law enforcement agencies after an affirmative vote by the Members. The amendment further provides greater certainty as to the commencement and termination of any review, including timely notice to the subject and Committee on Ethics. Further strengthening rights, the amendment bars the consideration of anonymous complaints and requires rules changes to better safeguard the exercise of due process rights of both subject and witness. Finally, the amendment limits the jurisdiction of the Office to the last three Congresses to conform to the statute of limitations for the Committee on Ethics.
12.19.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement upon the signing of both the Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act (H.R. 6477) and the Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery (HEAR) Act (H.R. 6130) into law: “Our museums and art galleries are some of the best outlets for Americans young and old to experience not only our own culture, but the cultures of others from around the world. Many of the world’s greatest works of art and artifacts are preserved in museums around the globe, and this legislation makes these pieces more accessible to American museums and galleries. “These two bipartisan bills signed into law will not only allow for a greater exchange of culture with partners around the world, but will help preserve world cultures. “Additionally, both of these bills contain vital provisions which will help return artwork and other cultural property that was stolen by the Nazis during the Holocaust. The return of these important pieces to their rightful owners is a simple measure we can take to preserve the culture of Europe, which the Nazis attempted to destroy during the atrocities of the Holocaust.” Background: Congressman Goodlatte introduced H.R. 6130, the Holocaust Expropriated Art Recovery Act of 2016, which allows civil actions to recover certain artwork or other property that was lost because of Nazi persecution without regard to State statutes of limitations. H.R. 6477, the Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act, provides sovereign immunity for a foreign state for works of art that are imported into the United States from the foreign state for temporary exhibition or display.
12.17.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement applauding President-elect Donald Trump’s selection of Congressman Mick Mulvaney (R-S.C.) to serve as Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB): “Congressman Mick Mulvaney is the right choice to help bring fiscal sanity to Washington. As Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Congressman Mulvaney will have the opportunity to provide much-needed oversight of federal regulations, change the culture of rampant spending and deficits, and take hold of the massive federal debt that weighs down our economy and will be passed down to the next generation. I look forward to working with him to bring more balance to the federal budget.”
12.08.2016	Today House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) released the first policy proposal to come out of the Committee’s review of U.S. Copyright law. This first proposal identifies important reforms to help ensure the Copyright Office keeps pace in the digital age. With the release of this document, the Committee requests written comments from interested stakeholders by January 31, 2017. These comments will be shared with members of the House Judiciary Committee as they come in and the Committee intends to make comments publicly available after the comment period closes. Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers released the following statement via video: “We would like to take a few minutes to share with you our plan for the next stage of the House Judiciary Committee’s review of our nation’s copyright laws. For years now, we have deliberately listened – through hearings, listening sessions, and site visits – to the views and concerns of stakeholders from all sides of the copyright debate. “Now, it is time to move forward into the next stage. We intend to periodically release policy proposals on select, individual issue areas within the larger copyright system that are in need of reform where there is a potential for consensus. These policy proposals are not meant to be the final word on reform in these individual issue areas, but rather a starting point for further discussion by all stakeholders, with the goal of producing legislative text within each issue area. “Today, we are releasing our first policy proposal, which identifies reforms to modernize the Copyright Office so that it can meet the challenges of the 21st Century. Among the reforms in this document are granting the Copyright Office autonomy with respect to the Library of Congress, requiring the Copyright Office to maintain an up-to-date digital, searchable database of all copyrighted works and associated copyright ownership information, and many others reforms. “Nothing should be read into the fact that we are only releasing a policy proposal on one topic today. This is just the beginning of this stage of the copyright review, and we intend to release policy proposals on music licensing issues and other individual issue areas in time. “But this is not a one way street. We need your help to turn these policy proposals into legislation. It is only through the input of all interested parties that agreements can be successfully achieved. “Thank you to everyone who has participated in the copyright review, and we look forward to continuing to work with you to improve our nation’s copyright system.” Background: Chairman Goodlatte first announced the House Judiciary Committee’s intention to undertake a comprehensive review of U.S. copyright law on April 24, 2013, in a speech before the World Intellectual Property Day celebration at the Library of Congress. As part of the copyright review, the House Judiciary Committee has held 20 hearings which included testimony from 100 witnesses. Following these hearings, Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers invited all prior witnesses of the Committee’s copyright review hearings and other interested stakeholders to meet with Committee staff and provide additional input on copyright policy issues. In addition, the House Judiciary Committee conducted a listening tour with stops in Nashville, Silicon Valley, and Los Angeles where they heard from a wide range of creators, innovators, technology professionals, and users of copyrighted works. More information on the House Judiciary Committee’s comprehensive copyright review can be found here.
12.08.2016	The House of Representatives today approved Kevin and Avonte’s Law (H.R. 4919) by a vote of 346-66 to help protect children with autism and individuals with Alzheimer’s from wandering. Kevin and Avonte’s Law is named in honor of two boys with autism, Kevin Curtis and Avonte Oquendo, who both wandered away from supervision and tragically drowned. The bill reauthorizes an existing Department of Justice grant program, the “Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program,” and extends the program to cover children with autism, who may be susceptible to the same type of wandering behavior as those with Alzheimer’s. It is estimated that 60 percent of the 5.3 million individuals with Alzheimer’s, and 49 percent of the 1 in 68 children with autism, have wandered. H.R. 4919 authorizes the Justice Department to make grants to law enforcement agencies, public safety agencies, and nonprofit organizations, to provide proactive, educational, voluntary wandering-prevention programming to families and caretakers of individuals who wander, as well as training to first responders and school personnel in order to recognize and respond to endangered missing individuals and facilitate their rescue and recovery. The bill contains important grant accountability and transparency requirements to ensure taxpayer dollars are used efficiently. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised today’s approval of the bill: “It’s a family’s worst nightmare when a loved one goes missing, especially if their child has autism or their parent has Alzheimer’s. Children with autism and people with Alzheimer’s are prone to wandering and the results can be devastating if they are not found immediately. “Kevin and Avonte’s Law reauthorizes a critical grant program to help prevent folks with Alzheimer’s from wandering and also extends it to children with autism. Police searches are expensive and this voluntary preventative grant program can help avoid costly searches and also spare the heartache that families and caretakers feel when a loved one goes missing. It’s also important that first responders and teachers are equipped to recognize and respond to missing individuals so that they can be brought home safely. I thank Representative Chris Smith for his tireless work on this pressing issue and call on the Senate to pass his bill.”
12.06.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today called on the Obama Administration to declassify its plan to admit into the United States potentially over 2,400 refugees who Australia has refused to admit. Last month, Chairmen Goodlatte and Grassley expressed concern that the Obama Administration’s secret negotiations with Australia left Americans in the dark about the full scope of its resettlement plans and requested a briefing to review the classified agreement. It is unprecedented to classify an agreement to usher in refugees to the United States and the Chairmen’s review of the agreement further confirms that it should never have been classified in the first place. In their letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Secretary of State John Kerry, Goodlatte and Grassley call for the declassification of the agreement so the American people can review it. Full text of the Goodlatte-Grassley letter to Kerry and Johnson follows: December 6, 2016 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 The Honorable John Kerry Secretary Department of State Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear Secretaries Johnson and Kerry: We write to follow up on our November 22, 2016 letter regarding the agreement between the United States and Australia for the United States to consider for admission as refugees, potentially over 2,400 migrants currently detained in Papua New Guinea and Nauru, whom Australia has refused to admit. These migrants are nationals of countries like Somalia, Syria, Pakistan, Iran, and Sudan, as well as others. As you know, your agencies have deemed the agreement classified. This is despite the fact that classification of an agreement regarding individuals to be considered for admission by the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program is unprecedented. We appreciate your making staff available to provide us with the document in a classified setting and to brief us regarding the circumstances surrounding the agreement. It is now absolutely apparent to us that there was no reason for the agreement to be classified from the outset, and that it should not continue to be classified. To that end, we request that you declassify the document outlining the agreement so that the American people can read it. The American people have a right to be fully aware of the actions of their government regarding foreign nationals who may be admitted to the United States. American taxpayers not only foot the bill for the majority of the refugee resettlement in the United States, but they bear any consequences regarding the security implications of those admitted to the U.S. Please respond by December 13, 2016, with your decision as to whether or not you will declassify the U.S.-Australia refugee agreement document. If your decision is not to seek declassification, please include your justification for such decision in your response. Thank you in advance for your prompt response. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman Committee on the Judiciary Charles E. Grassley Chairman Committee on the Judiciary
12.06.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Representative Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) today introduced Justice for Child Victims Act of 2016 (H.R. 6440) to ensure child trafficking victims are able to seek and obtain the restitution that they need and deserve. Under current law, federal courts are required to award any child depicted in sexually explicit material restitution in “the full amount of the victim’s losses,” which can include medical services, physical or occupational therapy, and attorneys’ fees. However, the Supreme Court ruled in United States v. Paroline that an individual defendant who may have received, distributed, or possessed child pornography may not be held liable for a victim’s aggregate damages incurred by potentially thousands of others who have viewed her images, and that defendants may be made liable only for the harm caused by their own conduct, not the conduct of others. Because of the nature of the crime, child pornography trafficking victims are involved in countless cases across multiple jurisdictions and time. This means that in order to obtain restitution, a victim’s request must be presented in multiple cases across the country. Since the process is so lengthy and overwhelming, only about 20 out of the thousands of child pornography trafficking victims have sought restitution. The Justice for Child Victims Act remedies this problem by creating a compensation fund that is paid for by child pornography defendants as an alternative avenue for victims to obtain financial support for their losses. This simple, one-step alternative allows child pornography trafficking victims to quickly access financial support for their own recovery. Chairman Goodlatte, Representative Gowdy, and Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Jackson Lee issued the statements below on the introduction of Justice for Child Victims Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “The trafficking of child pornography is a serious crime and those who cause the most vulnerable among us pain and suffering deserve to be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law. Although no amount of money can ever take away the trauma these children have experienced, we must ensure that victims of child exploitation receive the full amount of their losses from the production and ongoing trafficking of their images. “The Justice for Child Victims Act creates a straight-forward and easily accessible compensation fund that provides child pornography victims the financial support they need and deserve. Protecting our nation’s children is a top priority for the House Judiciary Committee and we plan to move this bill in the new Congress.” Rep. Gowdy: “Enforcing the rule of law and protecting human dignity through a fair justice system are among the chief responsibilities of Congress. Victims of child pornography endure severe trauma mentally, physically and emotionally. Ensuring they are able to obtain full restitution is the very least we can do to help them with the recovery process. “The Justice for Child Victims Act will ensure child pornography trafficking victims are fully compensated for their losses as they begin to recover. I thank Chairman Goodlatte and Representative Jackson Lee for their leadership on this legislation and their steadfast commitment to a fair and equal justice system.” Rep. Jackson Lee: “I’m pleased to cosponsor this important bill that will ensure the effective implementation of restitution to the victims of child pornography. We must do all we can to make sure that offenders pay restitution to their victims and that we mitigate the suffering of the victims, whose victimization continues so long as the images continue to be shown. This bipartisan bill adopts important suggestions by the Department of Justice and is based on their experience in enforcing the law. Adoption of this legislation should be a top priority in the new Congress.”
12.02.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after the House Republican Conference voted to confirm the GOP Steering Committee’s recommendation that he continue to serve as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee in the 115th Congress. Chairman Goodlatte: “I am honored to have been chosen to continue my service as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. The Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over some of the most important issues facing our country, including constitutional freedoms and civil liberties, legal and regulatory reform, competition and antitrust laws, terrorism and crime, immigration enforcement and reform, and intellectual property protections. “As Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee I have worked with my committee members on both sides of the aisle to tackle a broad portfolio of issues and compile a strong record of bipartisan accomplishments. From banning bulk data collection and protecting Americans’ privacy in the digital age to banning Internet access taxes, the House Judiciary Committee has solved some of our nation’s most difficult issues. In the 115th Congress, we intend to build on these successes and will continue to advance an agenda focused on making America stronger and more competitive.”
12.02.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today pressed Secretary Jeh Johnson on the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) failure to ensure immigration benefits applicants have received full background checks prior to approval of their applications. The House Judiciary Committee received from a confidential source an email that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Associate Director for the Field Operations Directorate sent to agency staff on November 29, 2016. In the email, he states that an issue had been identified with the key background system used to vet immigration benefits applicants and that proper background checks have not been run on certain applications. He further states that the agency is uncertain about the scope of the problem. In his letter to Secretary Johnson, Chairman Goodlatte demands answers from USCIS and DHS about the problems with the background check system, potential security risks, and what is being done to immediately resolve the problem. Below is Chairman Goodlatte’s letter. The signed letter can be found here. December 2, 2016 Dear Secretary Johnson, I write regarding background checks for foreign nationals seeking immigration benefits and the seeming lack of ability of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to ensure the completion of such background checks prior to approval of immigration benefits applications. Specifically, on the morning of November 29, 2016, the Associate Director for the Field Operations Directorate at USCIS, sent an email to USCIS regional and district officials as well as USCIS leadership and senior officials, stating “Effective immediately offices are instructed not to approve or oath any naturalization cases in ELIS. We have identified an issue with FBI Name Checks initiated through ELIS. At this point we are not confident that proper FBI Name Checks have been run on certain ELIS cases. At this point we are uncertain of the scope of the problem….” The email went on to require that any scheduled naturalization ceremonies be cancelled and that no naturalization applications be approved. As you know, the FBI Name Check process is an integral and absolutely necessary part of the immigration benefits adjudication process. No applicant should be approved prior to such a check being completed in and with a result showing no concerns. And no immigration benefit application should be approved without ensuring that the Electronic Immigration System (ELIS) is working properly. I am troubled by the fact that as the Chairman of the Committee of jurisdiction over USCIS, I was not informed about this epic USCIS failure to ensure that immigration benefits applicants were properly vetted as required by law. Your agency made no effort to notify me of this problem. Instead, I was only made aware of it by a confidential source. As such, I request a briefing from USCIS and DHS officials as to the current and any prior concerns with ELIS regarding background checks. In addition, please answer the following questions: 1. Since ELIS’ implementation, how many times has it not run the requisite background checks? For which immigration benefits categories did this occur? How many applications were affected? How was the situation resolved? Were the checks ultimately run? 2. How many naturalization cases were affected by the most recent failure of ELIS to run the requisite Name Checks, as discussed in the November 29, 2016, email? 3. On what date and at what time did USCIS become aware of the ELIS failure to run FBI Name Checks on naturalization cases? 4. How many naturalization applications were approved after USCIS became aware of the ELIS failure? Of those cases, how many of the individuals for which the naturalization application was approved, have been naturalized? 5. What action will USCIS take to ensure that individuals already naturalized have had the proper background checks run? 6. What action will USCIS take to ensure the initiation of denaturalization proceedings for those individuals who are found to have been improperly naturalized? 7. How many individuals have been naturalized to date this fiscal year and how many were naturalized in each of the fiscal years since ELIS implementation? 8. What is the total cost of ELIS implementation to date? 9. What other problems have occurred with regard to ELIS implementation? 10. What plan does USCIS have to fix ELIS? Please respond to this request by December 9, 2016. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Andrea Loving, Counsel for the House Judiciary Committee, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
11.29.2016	The House of Representatives today approved by voice vote an amended version of the Justice for All Reauthorization Act of 2016 (S. 2577) to strengthen crime victims’ rights. The bipartisan, bicameral bill – authored by Representative Ted Poe (R-Texas) and Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) – builds on the Justice for All Act of 2004 to improve the criminal justice system and ensure public confidence in it. It strengthens crime victims’ rights and programs by increasing access to restitution for federal crime victims. The Justice for All Reauthorization Act also further reduces the rape kit backlog and provides resources for forensic labs, while protecting the innocent by improving access to post-conviction DNA testing. It also improves these programs by increasing accountability for federal funds to protect taxpayer dollars. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised today’s approval of the bill: “For over a decade, the Justice for All Act has done a tremendous amount of good to improve our nation’s criminal justice system and strengthen crime victims’ rights. I am pleased the House has reauthorized and improved the Justice for All Act to further this good work, such as reducing the rape kit backlog so that victims are able to reclaim and rebuild their lives, and providing law enforcement resources to identify the guilty and free the innocent. I thank Representative Poe for his tireless work on these important issues and call on the Senate to swiftly pass the amended bill and send it to the President’s desk to be signed into law.” Watch Congressman Goodlatte’s floor speech in support of this legislation by clicking here.
11.29.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson for information on two men convicted in the United States for conspiring with ISIS. In June 2016, Nader Elhuzayel and Muhanad Badawi were convicted of conspiring to provide material support for ISIS, along with other terrorism-related and fraud charges, and recently sentenced to imprisonment for 30 years. Both men used social media to discuss terrorist attacks and expressed a desire to die as martyrs. Some media reports indicate that Elhuzayel is a citizen of Israel and a naturalized citizen of the United States, while others reflect that he was born in the United States. According to reports, Badawi is a citizen of Sudan. Both were residents of Anaheim, California at the time of their arrests. In his letter to Secretary Johnson, Chairman Goodlatte calls on DHS to provide Elhuzayel and Badawi’s immigration and criminal histories to the House Judiciary Committee in order to understand how they became radicalized and whether there were indicators of their radicalization that DHS should have been aware of prior to their arrest. Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to Secretary Johnson is below. November 29, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: Nader Elhuzayel and Muhanad Badawi were convicted of conspiring to provide material support for ISIS, along with other terrorism-related and fraud charges June 21, 2016. Both men were sentenced to imprisonment for 30 years on September 26 and October 19, respectively. Their plot involved facilitating Elhuzayel’s travel abroad to join ISIS fighters. Both used social media to discuss terrorist attacks and expressed a desire to die as martyrs. Some media reports indicate that Elhuzayel is a citizen of Israel and a naturalized citizen of the United States, while others reflect that he was born in the United States. According to reports, Badawi is a citizen of Sudan. Both were residents of Anaheim, California at the time of their arrests. It is important for the Committee to understand how Elhuzayel and Badawi became radicalized and to determine whether there were indicators of their radicalization that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) should have been aware of prior to their arrest. Therefore, please provide a briefing to Committee staff on this case on or before December 13, 2016. Additionally, please provide the following information no later than December 15, 2016: 1. The alien registration numbers for Nader Elhuzayel and Muhanad Badawi, if any, their complete, unredacted alien files (A-file), including any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all documents generated by DHS or in its possession about them, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, all Reports of Investigation (ROI), executive summaries, criminal histories and immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek their removal from the United States. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Nader Elhuzayel and Muhanad Badawi were encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of each charge, the date(s) on which they were released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did Nader Elhuzayel and Muhanad Badawi enter the United States? Were they ever served with a Notice to Appear? Was it filed with an immigration court? Please explain. 4. Have Nader Elhuzayel and Muhanad Badawi been removed previously? If so, when? 5. Has ICE issued a detainer or request for notification to any entity regarding Nader Elhuzayel or Muhanad Badawi? Please explain. As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to committees of Congress. Upon receipt of this letter, if it appears that you will not fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please immediately contact Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926, and identify the specific item(s) requested to which you will not fully respond and explain why you will not respond. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
11.23.2016	Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Steve Womack (R-Ark.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) released the following statement in response the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) release today of final annual mandatory blending volumes for biofuels under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): “Forcing more ethanol into the market – while hurting consumers, food producers, and small engines across the nation – is not the solution. While well-intentioned, it has been clear for some time now that the RFS is a broken policy. The EPA’s action today ignores basic economic and scientific facts, and sets the industry on a path that will be disastrous for families, small businesses and retailers, the agriculture community, food aid organizations, and the environment. Announcing higher fuel volumes for 2017 only emphasizes the unfairness of this mandate, and the need for Congress to step in and stop the harmful impacts. There are several good solutions on the table in the House to help lessen the effects of the ethanol mandate, including the RFS Reform Act, which we have introduced. Reforming the RFS remains a priority, and we will continue working to see a legislative fix move forward in Congress.” The RFS Reform Act (H.R. 704) eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels. Today’s announcement by the EPA sets ethanol levels above the blend wall, the point at which many small engines can safely use ethanol blended gasoline.
11.22.2016	House and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairmen Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are requesting the immigration and criminal histories of a man charged in the brutal roadside rape near Fredericksburg, Va., in October. Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian was arrested November 17, and charged with rape and aggravated sexual battery after he allegedly struck the vehicle of a woman with his car, dragged the driver into a ditch, and raped her for two hours. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement reportedly issued an immigration detainer for Sibrian, which seeks cooperation with local authorities to prevent Sibrian from being released back into the public. In a letter today to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, Grassley and Goodlatte are requesting Sibrian’s full immigration and criminal background, including when and how he entered the United States, whether he has been previously deported, and whether he applied for or received any immigration benefits. The chairmen are also asking for details on Sibrian’s previous encounters with law enforcement and immigration authorities, arrest history, and any gang affiliations. Finally, the chairmen are asking whether Sibrian would have been considered an enforcement priority under the Obama Administration’s Priority Enforcement Program prior to the rape charges, what steps federal officials will take if local law enforcement refuses to honor the federal detainer, and whether federal officials have contacted the victims of the alleged crimes committed by Sibrian. The Chairmen’s letter to Johnson follows: November 22, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to request case information on Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian, reportedly an alien illegally present in the United States, who allegedly brutally raped a woman near Fredericksburg, Virginia on October 31. According to reports, Sibrian allegedly dragged a woman from her car into a ditch and raped her for two hours after striking her car with his vehicle. Sibrian was arrested on November 17 in Sanford, North Carolina and charged with rape and aggravated sexual battery. His bond was set at $100,000. News sources also report that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement issued an immigration detainer for Sibrian. To better understand Sibrian’s immigration and criminal history, please provide both Committees on the Judiciary with the following information as soon as possible, but not later than December 5, 2016: 1. The alien registration number for Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian, his complete alien file (A-file), including any temporary files or working files, and all documents and items contained in them that were generated by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history and immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. How and when did Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian enter the United States? 3. Had Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian ever been removed previously? If so, when? 4. If a law enforcement agency declines to honor a detainer or notify ICE regarding Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian, what action will DHS take to ensure that he is not released from custody and allowed to reoffend? 5. Please identify each and every date on which Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian was arrested by a law enforcement agency in the United States, including criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charges, the jurisdictions where the arrests occurred, the dispositions of the charges, the dates on which he was released from the custody of the law enforcement agencies, and the reasons for the release. 6. Did Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian ever apply for any immigration benefit? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian may have submitted, whether or not adjudicated. 7. Was Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 8. If Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his recent arrest for rape, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Administration’s Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? 9. Has any victim(s) associated with the alleged crime(s) committed by Roberto Carlos Flores Sibrian been contacted by officials at ICE? Please provide details. As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. Upon receipt of this letter, if you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please immediately contact the staff members of the respective Committees below and identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary
11.21.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, made the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s selection of Senator Jeff Sessions to be U.S. Attorney General: “I congratulate Senator Sessions on his nomination by President-elect Trump to be the next Attorney General. Our nation’s top law enforcement officer has a solemn duty to ensure the rule of law and protect the American people by executing our laws impartially and fully. These core principles have come under attack the past eight years and must be restored at the Justice Department. “Upon confirmation by the Senate, I look forward to working with Mr. Sessions to enforce the rule of law, administer justice fairly without giving special treatment to the politically well-connected, and find solutions to the problems facing our nation’s criminal justice system.”
11.17.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement upon the House’s passage of the Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 5982) by a vote of 240-179: “President Obama’s regulatory agenda has already cost hardworking Americans hundreds of billions of dollars over the last eight years. Now, the president expects Americans to cover an additional burden of at least an estimated $113 billion in new regulatory costs imposed during the final months of the Obama Administration. “The new regulations President Obama intends to force upon the American people are partisan, costly, and overly broad. These regulations are in the fast lane for approval, without sufficient transparency or the proper time for the American people to comment and have their views taken fully into account. The practice of midnight regulation does a disservice to the American people, and today’s action by Congress stops abuse of this practice.” Background: The Midnight Rules Relief Act creates a rapid-response method for Congress to overturn an outgoing presidential administration’s attempts to impose major regulations without the transparency and scrutiny expected in normal regulatory implementation. The bill specifically amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to allow Congress to overturn multiple midnight rules and empowers Congress to more quickly stop midnight rules which are truly problematic – such as those that defy the message sent by the voters or those that have been poorly designed in the haste of the midnight rule period. VIDEO: Congressman Goodlatte speaks on the House floor in support of the Midnight Rules Relief Act. Click here to learn more about the bill.
11.16.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee Chairman Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) released the following statement following today’s Committee passage of the Judgment Fund Transparency Act of 2015 (H.R. 1669) by a voice vote: “When hardworking Americans pay their taxes, they expect their money to be used by the government in an honest and open manner in order to fund government agencies and programs. “Information currently available about payments made from the Judgment Fund lacks sufficient details for the public and Congress to effectively search. This problem was recently highlighted by the lack of information surrounding the Administration’s recent settlement with Iran. In addition to its power of the purse, it is Congress’s prerogative to ensure that the public is informed of government expenditures. This bill does just that. “Greater transparency to the Judgment Fund will allow the American people to understand how the government is using their funds, and determine whether or not they are being used wisely.” Background: The Judgment Fund was originally set up to provide a mechanism for the federal government to pay damages to parties, in a timely manner, who have been harmed by the federal government. The purpose of the Judgment Fund is thus a good one, but the administration of it must be more transparent. The use of the Judgment Fund has come under recent scrutiny when monies from the fund were used in a settlement with Iran, which lacked proper transparency and clear reporting to the American public. H.R. 1669, the Judgment Fund Transparency Act of 2015, requires the Department of the Treasury to disclose details after payments are made from the Judgment Fund, which is a permanent and indefinite appropriation to pay final judgments and settlements against the United States. Unless the disclosure is prohibited by law or a court order, Treasury must make available to the public on a website information regarding the claim, including, among other things, the plaintiff’s name and counsel for the plaintiff or claimant. If the payment is made to a foreign state, Treasury must provide additional information, including the method of payment, currency used, and the financial institution of the foreign state that received the funds. Click here to learn more about today’s markup.
11.15.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General report finding that the U.S. Secret Service has taken action to address the recommendations of the Protective Mission Panel made in December 2014 following the White House fence-jumping incident: “I am encouraged that leadership at the United States Secret Service has taken a number of steps to implement the recommendations made by the Protective Mission Panel. The Secret Service has a critical duty to ensure the safety of the President, White House personnel and the historic grounds, and there can be no room for error. In particular, the Secret Service faced many demands during the presidential election cycle, and I commend them for their excellent work. “The Secret Service must continue to implement reforms so that it restores itself as a dynamic agency in thwarting threats made against the President of the United States. I look forward to continue working with the Secret Service to make necessary improvements at the agency and also call on the Senate to pass the Secret Service Improvements Act so that the agency has the resources it needs to meet its mission.” Additional Background: In July 2015, the House of Representatives approved the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 1656). This bipartisan bill – authored by Congressman Bob Goodlatte – reforms the United States Secret Service, provides much needed resources to enhance agents’ training, strengthens security at the White House, and improves transparency and accountability at the agency.
11.07.2016	share: f t House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today called on FBI Director James Comey to answer many questions raised by his vague letter to congressional committees that he is not altering the conclusion he previously reached regarding Secretary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information. In his letter to Director Comey, Chairman Goodlatte asks if the FBI found any classified emails in its review of reportedly 650,000 emails in connection to the investigation of Anthony Weiner, if the FBI found any emails pertinent to the Clinton investigation that were not previously disclosed by Secretary Clinton or her associates, and whether the FBI intends to disclose the new emails it reviewed to Congress. “Our laws must be fairly and evenly enforced, regardless of power or position,” writes Chairman Goodlatte. “However, today, there is a perception among the American people that the FBI and DOJ’s actions during the Clinton investigation have tarnished their time-honored reputations for fair and equal application of the law. Transparency and responsiveness to these questions can help renew the public’s faith that future decisions concerning Secretary Clinton, or any other public official, are not governed by politics, but instead, are grounded in law and pursued based on the facts.” Below is the text of Chairman Goodlatte’s letter and the signed copy can be found here. November 7, 2016 The Honorable James B. Comey Director Federal Bureau of Investigation U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Comey: Yesterday, you informed Congress that you are not altering the conclusion you previously reached regarding Secretary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information. I appreciate the hard work that FBI personnel undoubtedly put in over the last week to review a reported 650,000 new emails found in connection with your investigation into former Congressman Anthony Weiner. However, notwithstanding the efforts of the men and women of the FBI, your letter fails to answer many questions regarding the nature of your expedited review of the hundreds of thousands of emails that “appear[ed] to be pertinent to the investigation.” Once again, we write to demand responses to unanswered questions. Please respond to these questions no later than November 15, 2016. 1) Did the FBI find any classified emails in its review of reportedly 650,000 emails in connection with the investigation of Clinton aide Huma Abedin’s estranged husband, Anthony Weiner? 2) Did the FBI find any emails – classified or unclassified – pertinent to the Clinton email mishandling investigation that had not been previously disclosed by Secretary Clinton or anyone else connected in any way to Secretary Clinton? 3) How many unique emails did you find that were not previously obtained by the FBI? a. Regarding any unique emails, did you consult with other members of the intelligence community to verify the classification level of the recently-discovered emails? In the past, this process has taken months. If you did not, how did you verify the classification level of those documents? 4) Does the FBI plan to release the emails it reviewed, redacted or otherwise, to Congressional oversight committees? a. It was reported today that DOJ, in a court filing, said it could take up to five years to release the Weiner emails. Please explain how the FBI can decide that none of the emails contain prosecutable conduct in little over a week, and yet DOJ can still delay the release of the emails by half a decade? 5) Did you consult with Attorney General Lynch prior to informing Congress that you would once again not recommend prosecution of Secretary Clinton? If not, who was the highest-ranking Department of Justice official you spoke with prior to sending your letter to Congress? I believe it is incumbent upon the FBI to promptly provide this information to help rehabilitate its reputation as an impartial, apolitical investigative agency. It is often said that our country’s greatness is due in part to it having ‘a government of laws and not of men.’ That means our laws must be fairly and evenly enforced, regardless of power or position. However, today, there is a perception among the American people that the FBI and DOJ’s actions during the Clinton investigation have tarnished their time-honored reputations for fair and equal application of the law. Transparency and responsiveness to these questions can help renew the public’s faith that future decisions concerning Secretary Clinton, or any other public official, are not governed by politics, but instead, are grounded in law and pursued based on the facts. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, BOB GOODLATTE
11.03.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Immigration and Border Security Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Immigration and The National Interest Subcommittee Chairman Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.) today called on Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson to take immediate action to stop the ongoing surge of illegal immigration at the southwest border that is overwhelming federal agencies and to brief lawmakers on the Department’s efforts to address it. Numerous media reports indicate that the ongoing border surge is a large-scale effort to enter the United States before this year’s presidential election. Tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors and family units from Central America continue to pour across the border. Additionally, thousands of Haitians and Africans are arriving at the border and claiming asylum. As the number of apprehensions by the Border Patrol has climbed sharply over the past year, it has put a strain on resources and the Obama Administration has failed to prudently manage detention capacity and resources, resulting in the release of many of these aliens into the United States. In their letter to Secretary Johnson, the chairmen call on DHS to take immediate action to quell the surge at the border and enforce our nation’s immigration laws. They also request a briefing to learn about what steps the Department is taking to address this pressing issue. To date, the Department has been reluctant to timely provide information to the committees of jurisdiction. Full letter can be viewed here or below. November 3, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write requesting that you take immediate action and mobilize all available resources of the Department to stop the ongoing surge of illegal immigration at the southwest border, which is overwhelming the Border Patrol and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Numerous media reports indicate that this surge is a large-scale effort to enter the United States before this year’s presidential election. The onslaught of illegal immigration reflects continued efforts by aliens from Central America—El Salvador, Honduras, and Guatemala—to overwhelm our limited resources at the border, which inevitably results in the release of tens of thousands of removable aliens within the United States. In addition, thousands of Haitians and Africans are amassing in the Mexican cities of Tijuana and Mexicali for the purpose of presenting themselves to U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers asserting dubious claims of asylum, which will practically guarantee their entry. This group of “Other Than Mexicans” at the southwest border comprises 70-75 percent of all border crossings. The numbers are staggering. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2016, the Border Patrol apprehended 408,870 illegal aliens at the southern border, 23 percent more than the preceding fiscal year. Of those apprehended, more than 77,000 were members of so-called “family units,” which represents an increase of 95 percent over FY 2015 figures, and nearly 60,000 were unaccompanied alien minors, which reflects a 49 percent increase over the previous fiscal year. On October 31, the Department of Health and Human Services reported that the daily referrals of unaccompanied illegal alien minors averaged 262 over the last week and approximately 237 in October. By comparison, referrals averaged 148 per day in October of FY 2014, the year of the first surge, and 60 per day in October of FY 2015. As of October 27, 2016, the number of minors in ORR care is approximately 10,700. ICE is currently detaining more than 40,000 aliens—a record number—with internal predictions indicating that the number could reach 47,000 in the coming months. Without additional funding, ICE likely will release thousands of those detained into the United States, many of whom are criminals, who will abscond and hide from authorities. We have been made aware through media reports and whistleblowers that ICE faces imminent budgetary shortfalls because the border crisis is driving so many additional foreign nationals into ICE detention. While we applaud the Department’s efforts to increase detention capacity in response to this surge, we are keenly aware of the limited resources available to the Department for apprehension and detention of removable aliens, and we want to ensure that you are not again considering the mass-release of criminals and other aliens who are subject to removal. As such, we expect you to be forthcoming with Congress regarding this critical situation and your proposed efforts to address it. That is why our respective staffs worked closely with the Department’s Office of Legislative Affairs to schedule a bicameral briefing on Tuesday, November 1, to discuss the border surge crisis and the Department’s response to it. Subject matter experts within the Department were set to brief our staffs and respond to questions at that time. However, late in the afternoon of October 31, the Department abruptly cancelled the scheduled briefing, citing unspecified scheduling conflicts by some of the experts, and recommended that the briefing occur next week. Efforts by our staffs to have the available experts provide a briefing were rejected. With this pressing issue at hand, it is irresponsible to delay efforts to provide information about the surge as quickly and transparently as possible to Congress. Finally, it has come to light through information provided to our Committees that the Department may have issued a directive to limit engagement with Congress until immediately before the election. Any such directive, if issued, would be an unacceptable political ploy and a serious infringement of Congress’ oversight authority under the Constitution. We fully expect that such a directive, if issued, would be immediately rescinded. Additionally, we expect that the Department will provide a briefing to our staffs on these critical issues this week. Should you have any questions, please contact Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926, Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225, or Gene Hamilton at (202) 224-7572. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary Trey Gowdy Chairman Subcommittee on Immigration Jeff Sessions Chairman Subcommittee on Immigration and and Border Security the National Interest
11.03.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) today called on the Department of Justice again to preserve all documents related to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. Last week, Director James Comey notified Congress that the FBI was investigating a new source of emails related to the Clinton email server investigation. It is reported that these new sources of emails are previously-unexamined devices from Huma Abedin, Secretary Clinton’s advisor, and her husband, Anthony Weiner. Reports also suggest that these emails number 650,000 and are from multiple devices related to the FBI’s investigation of Mr. Weiner’s interactions with teenaged girls. In their letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, Chairmen Goodlatte and Chaffetz call on the Justice Department once again to preserve all documents related to the initial Clinton investigation and to preserve the newly discovered documents found on devices belonging to Huma Abedin and Anthony Weiner. Full letter can be viewed here or below. November 3, 2016 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Madam Attorney General: We write to supplement our previous request that you preserve all documents referring or relating to Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email server. On October 28, 2016, Director Comey notified Congress that the FBI was investigating a new source of emails related to the Clinton email server investigation. Subsequent reports indicate that these new sources of emails are previously-unexamined devices from Huma Abedin, Secretary Clinton’s advisor, and her husband, Anthony Weiner. Reports also suggest that these emails number 650,000 and are from multiple devices related to the FBI’s criminal investigation of Mr. Weiner. As the respective Chairmen of the committee of jurisdiction over the Department of Justice and the FBI, and the principal oversight committee for the House of Representatives, we hereby request that you preserve all documents, communications, and other records or data obtained in the course of that investigation. Specifically, preserve any information found on Ms. Abedin’s and Mr. Weiner’s devices, in email accounts referring or relating to those devices and/or their owners, and on any other source that the Department or the FBI reviews that is related to this case. This request includes, but is not limited to, all emails, documents, files, and metadata, regardless of relevancy or claims of privilege, and should be construed in the broadest possible form, understanding that Congressional oversight powers are broader and more far-reaching than those permitted by Department policy, and the limits of subpoenas in the oversight versus the investigatory context are substantially different. Moreover, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 2704, we expect that you have sought backup preservation of email contents from Yahoo and any other service over which Ms. Abedin and Mr. Weiner communicated. This request necessarily includes, but is not limited to, any and all documents reviewed or sorted by FBI and DOJ pre-reviewers (i.e., the “taint team” or “filter team”), before they are handed over to the investigative team. In ensuring compliance with this request, it is your responsibility to make sure that anyone who is coming into contact with documents related to this investigation is aware of the preservation order, and that all documents are preserved in their initial form, including all markings, notes, and metadata. As in our previous request, “preserve” means taking reasonable steps to prevent the partial or full destruction, alteration, testing, deletion, shredding, incineration, wiping, relocation, migration, theft, or mutation, of records in any form, as well as negligent handling that would make such records incomplete or inaccessible. Preservation also includes any evidence related to tampering, hacking, or exploitation of the emails by foreign adversaries or other outside parties. Further, we request that you: 1. Exercise reasonable efforts to identify and notify former employees and contractors, subcontractors and consultants who may have access to such electronic records that they are to be preserved; 2. Exercise reasonable efforts to identify, recover, and preserve any electronic records which have been deleted or marked for deletion but are still recoverable; and 3. If it is the routine practice of any agency employee or contractor to destroy or otherwise alter such electronic records, either halt such practices or arrange for the preservation of complete and accurate duplicates or copies of such records, suitable for production, if requested. We also reiterate our previous request of October 5, 2016, to preserve all records related to the initial Clinton investigation, and the preservation request discussed in the email conversation with your staff on October 27, 2016. At both of those points, Department staff informed Committee staff that you would preserve materials related to the Clinton investigation, including, but not limited to, the laptops of Heather Samuelson and Cheryl Mills. Thank you for your prompt attention to and compliance with this request. If you have questions or require additional information, please contact Christopher Grieco of Chairman Goodlatte’s staff at (202) 225-7869 or Liam McKenna of Chairman Chaffetz’s staff at (202)-225-5074. Sincerely, BOB GOODLATTE Committee on the Judiciary JASON CHAFFETZ Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
10.28.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) Friday announcement that it has reopened its investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server to send and receive classified information: “The FBI’s decision to reopen its investigation into Secretary Clinton reinforces what the House Judiciary Committee has been saying for months: the more we learn about Secretary Clinton’s use of a private email server, the clearer it becomes that she and her associates committed wrongdoing and jeopardized national security. “Now that the FBI has reopened the matter, it must conduct the investigation with impartiality and thoroughness. The American people deserve no less and no one should be above the law.”
10.24.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) today issued the following joint statement after the announcement that Maria Pallante, the former Register of Copyrights, will be leaving the U.S. Copyright Office: “We are saddened to learn that Maria Pallante, who served with distinction as only the 12th Register of Copyrights and the Director of the Copyright Office for the last five years, will be leaving the Copyright Office. This will be a tremendous loss for the Copyright Office and for America’s creators, innovators, and users of copyrighted works. “We have had the pleasure of working closely with Maria over the last few years as the House Judiciary Committee conducted a comprehensive review of U.S. copyright law to determine whether the law is still working in the digital age to reward creativity and innovation. Maria has played an instrumental role in the Committee’s efforts. We have welcomed her thoughtful testimony on copyright law and policy a number of times and closely studied the reports produced by her office. “As Maria transitions from the Copyright Office, it is the perfect opportunity to examine the selection process for the new Register. America’s creativity is the envy of the world and the Copyright Office is at the center of it. We must ensure that any new Register is fully qualified to lead this important office as it continues to directly advise Congress on copyright policy and law. The new Register of Copyrights should be dedicated to protecting creative rights and modernizing the Copyright Office.”
10.21.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today raised concerns to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey about a top Clinton advisor’s use of laptops made by a company with long-suspected Chinese government ties and intelligence concerns to store and sort former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s emails. The latest round of documents provided by the FBI on the Clinton investigation reveals that Heather Samuelson, former White House Liaison to the State Department, used laptops manufactured by a Chinese company, Lenovo, to perform the sorting of emails to determine which of Secretary Clinton’s emails were work-related or personal. Lenovo computers, and specifically the models used by Heather Samuelson for reviewing classified emails, have been shown by the Department of Homeland Security to contain software that permits remote hacking attacks. And for a decade, the State Department has banned the use of Lenovo computers from the Department’s networks that handle classified information. In the letter to Director Comey, Chairman Goodlatte calls on him to provide detailed information about Samuelson’s use of Lenovo laptops, whether classified emails sent or received by Secretary Clinton were exploited by the Chinese government, and if anyone else with access to Secretary Clinton’s private email server used Lenovo computers. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 21, 2016 The Honorable James Comey Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20535 Dear Director Comey: As you know, the House Judiciary Committee is conducting a review of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) investigation into former Secretary Clinton’s use of a private email server to transmit classified information. In response to Congressional requests, the FBI has released documents relating to the investigation, including transcribed interview notes, or “302s.” Among other things, the FBI 302s contain extremely worrisome information that questions whether Secretary Clinton’s emails were obtained by the Chinese government – before the State Department, FBI, or any other agency had redacted Top Secret and Special Access Program (SAP) information. This information is so highly classified that even Congressional oversight committees were not able to review the emails. Our latest concern stems from the use of laptops manufactured by a Chinese company, Lenovo, to perform the sorting of emails to determine which of Secretary Clinton’s emails were work-related or personal. The FBI 302s show that computers used by Heather Samuelson, former White House Liaison to the State Department, for sorting through Secretary Clinton’s emails were Lenovo laptops. Lenovo computers, and specifically the models used by Heather Samuelson for reviewing classified emails, have been shown by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to contain software, dating back to 2010, that permits remote hacking attacks. The New York Times has reported on malware that was preinstalled in Lenovo Yoga laptops “that tracks its customers’ every move online.” Moreover, going back to 2006, the State Department – Secretary Clinton’s own agency, at which Ms. Samuelson was employed – agreed to ban the use of Lenovo computers from the Department’s networks that handle classified information. With this new information now publicly revealed, please answer the following questions: 1) Did the FBI consider the manufacturing origin of the Lenovo laptops when investigating whether any classified emails sent or received by Secretary Clinton were exploited by the Chinese government? 2) It has been reported that various U.S. and international intelligence agencies, including CIA, NSA, and the U.K.’s MI6, have banned the use of Lenovo computers in their classified systems. Does the FBI use or recommend the use of Lenovo computers for use with classified information? a. If the FBI refuses to use Lenovo computers for its own business, does that mean you would not have recommended the use of Lenovo computers for sorting through emails that may have – and in actuality, did – contain classified information? 3) In the course of the FBI’s investigation into Secretary Clinton’s emails which were sent over unclassified servers, did you inquire into the use by the State Department, or anyone with access to Secretary Clinton’s personal server, whether Lenovo computers were used for sending, receiving, storing, or back-end management of Secretary Clinton’s or her associates’ communications or other documents? a. If so, did the FBI review whether any of these Lenovo computers were used to transmit emails that were eventually found to be classified? 4) The FBI 302s reveal that Ms. Samuelson used two separate Lenovo laptops to conduct the sorting and deletion of emails. a. Did the FBI review both Lenovo laptops during the course of its investigation? b. Did you find classified information on emails that were sorted with Ms. Samuelson’s Lenovo laptops? c. While we understand that you agreed to destroy one of the laptops at the end of your investigation, pursuant to Ms. Samuelson’s immunity agreement, do you still have in your possession either of Ms. Samuelson’s Lenovo laptops? I look forward to expeditiously receiving the answers to these significant questions, to permit the American people to better understand the FBI’s decision regarding Secretary Clinton’s conduct. It seems clear that Secretary Clinton and her associates played fast and loose with our national security, and yet no one – not a single person involved in this harmful fiasco – has been held accountable. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
10.20.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today called for an independent investigation into how and why two lawyers previously employed by a law firm representing former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton were hired by the State Department and then allowed to control the production of Clinton’s emails to the public and Congress. The latest round of documents provided by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) on the Clinton investigation raises many concerns about how and why Catherine Duval and Austin Evers – both of whom previously worked at Williams and Connolly, the law firm that has represented the Clintons for decades – were in charge of the document review and classification process for Secretary Clinton’s records at the State Department. In the FBI’s interview notes, it appears that both Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers had no experience working on Freedom of Information Act requests or classified records production prior to their employment at the State Department and did not follow the normal process as they worked on the production of Secretary Clinton’s records. In a letter to Department of State Inspector General Steve Linick, Chairman Goodlatte raises several concerns regarding Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers’ expertise and impartiality and calls for him to open an investigation into how and why they were hired by the State Department, how they held sensitive positions despite a lack of experience, whether they followed the appropriate processes for document declassification review, and whether they acted according to well-established procedures and policies governing State Department officials. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 20, 2016 The Honorable Steve A. Linick Inspector General U.S. Department of State Room 8100, SA-3 Washington, DC 20520 Inspector General Linick, I am deeply concerned with recent reports regarding attorneys Catherine Duval and Austin Evers, and the roles they played in reviewing documents on behalf of the State Department in relation to Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email server for transmitting classified information. Given what we now know about these two lawyers from interviews conducted by the FBI, there are serious concerns regarding the expertise and impartiality of these lawyers, who had control over what documents were ultimately turned over to Congress and the public. Based on interviews conducted by the FBI and publicly-available information, it appears that neither Ms. Duval nor Mr. Evers should have been involved in the FOIA process for Secretary Clinton’s records. Both Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers previously worked at Williams and Connolly, the firm with a long-standing and continuing relationship representing the Clintons going back to the Whitewater Investigation and continuing up to the present day--including representing Secretary Clinton in this very same investigation. While there is no current evidence that either of them ever worked on Clinton matters at Williams and Connolly, it is unclear if that was ever considered before their hiring at the State Department. Was a conflict check done to make sure they had not handled Clinton matters at Williams and Connolly before being hired by the State Department, or before they were assigned to Clinton matters at the State Department? Were they recommended to the State Department by anyone at the firm who had worked on Clinton matters? The circumstances of both Ms. Duval’s and Mr. Evers’ hirings raise serious questions about how and why they were hired by the State Department and placed into powerful positions where they had access, control, and influence on making sure certain Clinton documents were or were not produced to Congress and the public. In addition to the fact that they both were employed at Williams and Connolly, the Clintons’ law firm, it appears that neither Ms. Duval nor Mr. Evers had previous experience working on FOIA requests or classified records production. According to FBI interviews, Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers “started to learn about records production and the FOIA process” only after they were hired by the Department of State in August of 2014. It is simply unimaginable that new hires, with no experience doing what they were hired to do and a potential conflict of interest, were tasked with this massive responsibility. At the very least, this suspect arrangement raises questions into the impartiality of the State Department hiring process. At worst, it suggests willful obstruction by handpicked Clinton associates at the State Department on behalf of former Secretary Clinton, to ensure damaging or incriminating documents never saw the light of day. Ms. Duval’s and Mr. Evers’ roles as political operatives, rather than professional FOIA experts in these matters, seems even more evident when one considers how they handled document classification reviews – i.e., the process whereby other Federal agencies are permitted to review documents prior to release, to determine whether the documents contain classified information in their jurisdictions. According to FBI interviews, Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers refused to go through the normal channels in dealing with other agencies in the classification review process. For example, instead of going to the career FBI official who serves as the normal point of contact at the FBI for document classification determinations, Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers skipped the FBI and went straight to the Department of Justice. Additionally, instead of going to the typical contact at the National Security Council, Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers went to the political appointee in the White House Counsel’s Office. At best, this indicates a significant misunderstanding of the usual process. At worst, it indicates a desire to have biased political appointees, rather than career national security professionals, decide what was classified and what was not, presumably because those individuals would be more susceptible to political pressure from Secretary Clinton and her staff. In light of these troubling circumstances, we ask that you open an investigation into how and why Ms. Duval and Mr. Evers were hired by the Department of State, how they came into the sensitive positions they held despite an apparent lack of any experience, whether they followed the appropriate processes for document declassification review, and in all other matters pertaining to this case, whether they acted according to well-established procedures and policies governing State Department officials. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
10.18.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today called on Attorney General Loretta Lynch to investigate whether a senior State Department official violated federal public corruption laws by attempting to bribe the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Recently disclosed FBI interview notes pertaining to the investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton reveal that Undersecretary of State Patrick Kennedy offered to support the FBI’s efforts to place additional agents in overseas locations if the FBI would agree to declassify certain classified documents found on Secretary Clinton’s private email server related to the Benghazi attacks. Undersecretary Kennedy further stated the declassification would allow him to archive the documents “in the basement of [the State Department], never to be seen again.” This revelation is the latest controversy to surface in the investigation into Clinton’s private email server scandal. In a letter to Attorney General Lynch, Chairman Goodlatte calls on the Justice Department to investigate whether Undersecretary Kennedy violated federal laws and writes: “Undersecretary Kennedy’s attempt to barter away American national security interests for plainly political purposes is appalling, and may rise to the level of a federal crime. Decisions about how or where FBI agents should be stationed in foreign countries to help combat terrorism cannot and should not be made on the basis of anything except national security concerns.” Below is the text of the Goodlatte letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 18, 2016 Dear Attorney General Lynch: As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing oversight of Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server during her tenure as Secretary of State, the Justice Department (DOJ) has provided to the Committee the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) interview notes (302’s) of witnesses, suspects, and the subject of the investigation, Secretary Clinton. I remain deeply troubled by many aspects of the investigation, and I am still waiting for responses on a number of letters and questions which I expect to receive immediately. However, I write to you today on another matter. The newly-released 302’s raise serious questions about whether Undersecretary of State Patrick Kennedy violated federal laws including public corruption laws by offering a “quid pro quo” to the FBI. Specifically, the 302’s show that Undersecretary Kennedy offered to support the FBI’s efforts to place additional agents in overseas locations, including some of the most critical locations in the world for our fight against terrorism, if the FBI would agree to declassify certain classified documents found on Secretary Clinton’s private email server related to the Benghazi attacks. Undersecretary Kennedy further stated the declassification would allow him to archive the documents “in the basement of DOS, never to be seen again.” Undersecretary Kennedy’s attempt to barter away American national security interests for plainly political purposes is appalling, and may rise to the level of a federal crime. Decisions about how or where FBI agents should be stationed in foreign countries to help combat terrorism cannot and should not be made on the basis of anything except national security concerns. I ask that the Department of Justice look into this matter. Given the sensitive nature of the participants involved, including former Secretary of State and Presidential candidate Clinton, a separate high ranking official at the State Department, and a high ranking FBI official in charge of America’s counter-terrorism efforts, it is imperative that this matter be investigated and that the investigation be done in an apolitical way with agents who were not involved in the initial Clinton Investigation. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee
10.11.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and all Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee today called for an independent investigation of the special treatment given to key witnesses during the investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server to send and receive classified information. Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson, top advisors to Secretary Clinton during her tenure at the State Department, were witnesses in the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s investigation of Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server and had previously been interviewed by the FBI. Although Secretary Clinton had legal representation from a prestigious law firm, the Justice Department and FBI allowed Mills and Samuelson to sit in on the Bureau’s interview of Secretary Clinton, even though there was a clear conflict of interest and both received immunity deals. In a letter to the Inspectors General for the Justice Department and State Department, Chairman Goodlatte and the Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee call for an independent investigation into the matter and write: “Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson were responsible for culling and shredding documents related to Secretary Clinton’s tenure and, whether willfully or inadvertently, are responsible for the destruction of evidence and official records. As such, they were key witnesses who could not have ethically provided legal representation to Secretary Clinton after their departure from the State Department. “The evidence plainly demonstrates that Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson’s claims of attorney-client privilege in the Clinton email investigation are wholly without merit. It appears increasingly clear that political considerations hijacked the criminal process in this case, and routine, longstanding policies and procedures were ignored. As such, we request that you open an investigation into this matter at your respective Departments.” The letter is signed by Chairman Bob Goodlatte, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) and Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), J. Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Mimi Walters (R-Calif.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Dave Trott (R-Mich.), and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.). Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 11, 2016 Dear Inspector General Horowitz and Inspector General Linick: In continuing the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing oversight of Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server to send and receive classified information, we write to question the propriety, impartiality, and legality of circumstances surrounding the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Department of Justice (DOJ) interview of Secretary Clinton. The FBI and DOJ appear to have acquiesced in allowing two former State Department employees, Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson, to act as legal counsel for Secretary Clinton in order to influence an investigation into facts for which the former employees were substantially and personally involved. However, neither the FBI nor DOJ are in a position to investigate their own actions in connection with the Clinton interview, thus making this a tailor-made case for independent review. We are particularly concerned by the fact that Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson, both of whom participated personally and substantially in matters that were the subject of the FBI’s investigation, were permitted by both DOJ and the FBI to sit in on Secretary Clinton’s interview. Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson were fact witnesses who had previously been interviewed by the FBI regarding the setup of Secretary Clinton’s private server, theirs and Secretary Clinton’s communications, and their own familiarity with classified information sent via unsecure means during Secretary Clinton’s tenure. Allowing them to sit in on Secretary Clinton’s interview raises questions as to whether a serious interview of Secretary Clinton was ever even contemplated. In fact, it offered Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson an opportunity to further corroborate their stories with the target of the FBI’s investigation – Secretary Clinton – and have insight into questions being asked of Secretary Clinton regarding communications to which they may have been parties. We are also very concerned about the FBI and DOJ’s acceptance of Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson’s assertions that they were serving as Secretary Clinton’s attorneys. • Did the FBI ask for an engagement letter? • Did the FBI probe into when the attorney-client privilege purportedly began? • Does the FBI have any record of investigating or internally deliberating on the patently absurd claim of attorney-client privilege? • Did the FBI ever ask whether either Mills or Samuelson had professional liability insurance? • Did the FBI consider whether 18 U.S.C. § 207 applies to the inappropriate representation of former Secretary Clinton by former State Department employees “personally and substantially” involved in matters pertaining to the Clinton investigation? • Did the FBI ever broach the subject of a conflict of interest with Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson, or contemplate the fact that their representation of Secretary Clinton as counsel in her interview was a clear violation of long-standing canons of professional ethics? Not only did Secretary Clinton have able-bodied counsel from Williams & Connolly, a very prestigious law firm, but Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson are not practicing attorneys in any sense of the term. Illustrative of the incongruous declarations of attorney-client privilege are current biographies of both Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson. Ms. Mills’ biography on the website for the BlackIvy Group, where she is currently CEO, states that she was Chief of Staff and Counselor during Secretary Clinton’s tenure, neither of which are attorney positions. In fact, the current Counselor of the Department, Ambassador Kenney, is not an attorney, and only one of the previous five Counselors of the State Department even possessed a law degree. Similarly, Ms. Samuelson’s public LinkedIn profile lists, after her time spent on the 2008 Clinton campaign, “Senior Advisor/White House Liaison” at the State Department for the period of January 2009 to March 2013, corresponding with Secretary Clinton’s tenure. This was also not an attorney position. It seems clear that neither Ms. Mills nor Ms. Samuelson can credibly claim that they had an attorney-client relationship with Secretary Clinton while employed at the State Department. Rather, it is the duty of the Department’s Office of the Legal Adviser to “furnish[] advice on all legal issues, domestic and international, arising in the course of the Department’s work.” Ms. Mills’ profile at her current company indicates that she now sits on the Board of the Clinton Foundation. DOJ and the FBI have yet to confirm whether the Clinton Foundation is under investigation for pay-to-play allegations and inappropriate foreign donations, but if it is the case that the Clinton Foundation is an FBI target, Ms. Mills’ presence in the interview with Secretary Clinton is even more disconcerting considering her role on the Clinton Foundation’s Board. Suffice it to say, neither Ms. Mills nor Ms. Samuelson are currently practicing law in their post-State Department jobs, except for the specious claim of representing Secretary Clinton in an FBI criminal probe for which they were key players and witnesses. Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson were responsible for culling and shredding documents related to Secretary Clinton’s tenure and, whether willfully or inadvertently, are responsible for the destruction of evidence and official records. As such, they were key witnesses who could not have ethically provided legal representation to Secretary Clinton after their departure from the State Department. The evidence plainly demonstrates that Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson’s claims of attorney-client privilege in the Clinton email investigation are wholly without merit. It appears increasingly clear that political considerations hijacked the criminal process in this case, and routine, longstanding policies and procedures were ignored. As such, we request that you open an investigation into this matter at your respective Departments. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Jason Chaffetz Louie Gohmert Lamar Smith Steve Chabot Blake Farenthold Mimi Walters Mike Bishop Jim Sensenbrenner Trent Franks Steve King Darrell Issa Jim Jordan Raul Labrador Doug Collins Trey Gowdy John Ratcliffe Ron DeSantis Ken Buck Tom Marino Dave Trott Ted Poe J. Randy Forbes
10.06.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson for information about Nelash Mohamed Das, a resident alien recently arrested for planning the murder of a U.S. military member as part of a terrorist attack. On September 30, 2016, Das was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and charged with attempting to provide material support to a terrorist organization by conspiring to murder a U.S. military member in Prince George’s County, Maryland on behalf of ISIS. According to the Department of Justice, Das is a citizen of Bangladesh and a lawful permanent resident of the United States. The FBI alleges that in late 2015 and early 2016, Das used social media to express his support for ISIS, including support for the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris, France, and San Bernardino, California. In Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to Secretary Johnson, he calls on DHS to provide the House Judiciary Committee with information about Das, including his immigration and criminal history, to determine if there were indicators of his radicalization that the Department should have been aware of prior to his arrest. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 6, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: On September 30, 2016, Nelash Mohamed Das was arrested by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and charged with attempting to provide material support to a terrorist organization by conspiring to murder a U.S. military member in Prince George’s County, Maryland on behalf of ISIS. According to the Department of Justice, Das is a citizen of Bangladesh and a lawful permanent resident of the United States. The FBI alleges that in late 2015 and early 2016, Das used social media to express his support for ISIS, including support for the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris, France, and San Bernardino, California. It is important for the Committee to understand how Das became radicalized and to determine whether there were indicators of his radicalization that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) should have been aware of prior to his arrest. Therefore, please provide the following information no later than October 20, 2016: 1. The alien registration number for Nelash Mohamed Das, his complete, unredacted alien file (A-file), including the complete, unredacted alien files of his parents, to the extent that Das derived an immigration benefit through one or both parents, any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all documents generated by DHS or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, all Reports of Investigation (ROI), executive summaries, criminal history and immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Das was encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which he was released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did Das enter the United States? Was he ever served with a Notice to Appear? Was it filed with an immigration court? Please explain. 4. Has Das been removed previously? If so, when? 5. Has ICE issued a detainer or request for notification to any entity regarding Das? Please explain. As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
10.05.2016	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), and House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Chairman Devin Nunes (R-Calif.) sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) requesting information on the unusual restrictions placed on the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) in its criminal investigation of Secretary Clinton’s private email server. The restrictions were discovered in the course of the Committees’ review of the immunity agreements for former Clinton staffers Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson. Key excerpts from the letter: "We write to express our concerns about the process by which Congress was allowed to view the Wilkinson letters, that the letters inappropriately restrict the scope of the FBI’s investigation, and that the FBI inexplicably agreed to destroy the laptops knowing that the contents were the subject of Congressional subpoenas and preservation letters. “These limitations would necessarily have excluded, for example, any emails from Cheryl Mills to Paul Combetta in late 2014 or early 2015 directing the destruction or concealment of federal records. Similarly, these limitations would have excluded any email sent or received by Secretary Clinton if it was not sent or received by one of the four email addresses listed, or the email address was altered. “Further, the Wilkinson letters memorialized the FBI’s agreement to destroy the laptops. This is simply astonishing given the likelihood that evidence on the laptops would be of interest to congressional investigators. “The Wilkinson letters raise serious questions about why DOJ would consent to such substantial limitations on the scope of its investigation, and how Director Comey’s statements on the scope of the investigation comport with the reality of what the FBI was permitted to investigate.” View the letter here.
10.04.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today pressed U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Director Sarah Saldaña on the agency’s enlistment of local law enforcement to conduct surveillance on law abiding citizens at gun shows. A recent Wall Street Journal report indicates that ICE agents induced local law enforcement officers to scan license plates to collect data on individuals attending gun shows in California. ICE’s invasive use of license plate readers is particularly troubling since there is no written policy to govern this practice. “When attending a gun show, law abiding citizens are exercising their First Amendment right to peaceably assemble,” writes Chairman Goodlatte. “Further, if they are purchasing or otherwise acquiring or possessing a firearm, they are exercising their Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. These Constitutionally-protected activities should not subject gun show attendees to unwarranted and heavy-handed surveillance practices by their government.” In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte requests that Director Saldaña provide detailed information about ICE’s questionable use of license plate readers, including the number of gun shows ICE surveilled and how many license plates were recorded. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 4, 2016 The Honorable Sarah R. Saldaña, Director U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 500 12th St., SW Washington, D.C. 20536 Dear Director Saldaña, Recent media reports indicate that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents induced local law enforcement officers to scan license plates to collect data on individuals attending gun shows in California. If true, this invasive investigative tactic poses many serious concerns for millions of law abiding Americans. Also troubling is the report that ICE has no written policy governing the use of license plate readers. While the use of license plate readers is a valid law enforcement tool when properly used, this does not appear to be the case in this situation. When attending a gun show, law abiding citizens are exercising their First Amendment right to peaceably assemble. Further, if they are purchasing or otherwise acquiring or possessing a firearm, they are exercising their Second Amendment right to keep and bear arms. These Constitutionally-protected activities should not subject gun show attendees to unwarranted and heavy-handed surveillance practices by their government. In order for this Committee to more fully understand why ICE would employ this technique under such questionable circumstances, please provide a written response to the below questions and make ICE staff available for a briefing on this matter no later than October 14, 2016. 1. Please provide a copy of all ICE polices governing the use of license plate readers. If there are no policies, please explain why none have been developed. 2. At how many gun shows did ICE record or make a request to another law enforcement agency to record the license plates of the gun show attendees? Please indicate the dates and locations of the gun shows described above. Please provide all documents, communications or other materials ICE prepared, sent or received pertaining to the gun show operations described above. 3. How many license plates were recorded during these operations? 4. Does ICE still maintain the records of the license plates recorded at gun shows? If so, for what reason and how long does ICE intend to maintain that information? If not, what became of them? 5. How many arrests or investigative leads were obtained because of these operations? 6. Which law enforcement agencies agreed to scan license plates at the request of ICE? Did any law enforcement agencies refuse such a request? If so, please identify the agencies that declined. 7. Does ICE have any ongoing operations or planned operations at gun shows? Thank you for your prompt attention to this very important matter. Should you have any questions concerning this request, please contact Jason Cervenak or Tracy Short on the House Judiciary Committee staff at 202.225.3951. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
10.03.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today pressed Attorney General Loretta Lynch about a secret agreement to destroy the laptops of top advisors to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing oversight of Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server during her tenure as Secretary of State, the Justice Department provided a private review of certain immunity agreements entered into during the investigation. The immunity agreements mentioned secret side agreements between the Justice Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and Beth Wilkinson, the lawyer representing Cheryl Mills, chief of staff and counselor to Secretary Clinton, and Heather Samuelson, senior advisor to Secretary Clinton. After reviewing the side agreements, the Committee has learned that the FBI agreed to destroy Mills and Samuelson’s laptops after inspecting them. In his letter to Attorney General Lynch, Chairman Goodlatte calls on the Justice Department to provide information about the side agreements and answer the many questions they raise about the FBI’s investigation. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. October 3, 2016 Dear Attorney General Lynch: As part of the Judiciary Committee’s ongoing oversight of Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server during her tenure as Secretary of State, the Justice Department (DOJ) provided in camera review of certain immunity agreements. After a specific request from the Committee, based on references made in the immunity agreements to certain “side agreements,” DOJ subsequently provided in camera review of those “side agreements” between DOJ, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Beth Wilkinson, the lawyer representing both Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson. Like many things about this case, these new materials raise more questions than answers. Please provide a written response to the below questions and make DOJ staff available for a briefing on this matter no later than October 10, 2016. 1. Why did the FBI agree to destroy both Cheryl Mills’ and Heather Samuelson’s laptops after concluding its search? 2. Doesn’t the willingness of Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson to have their laptops destroyed by the FBI contradict their claim that the laptops could have been withheld because they contained non-relevant, privileged information? If so, doesn’t that undermine the claim that the side agreements were necessary? 3. Have these laptops, or the contents of the laptops, in fact been destroyed, thereby making follow up investigations by the FBI, or Congressional oversight, impossible? 4. For both the Mills and Samuelson laptops please provide individual numbers on the following: a. How many total documents were reviewed by the FBI filter review team from the Mills and Samuelson laptops? b. How many documents did the FBI filter review team deem to be privileged and withhold from the FBI investigative team? c. How many documents were ultimately turned over from the Mills and Samuelson laptops to the FBI investigative team? d. How many documents were withheld from the FBI investigative team from each laptop for lack of relevancy? e. How many documents were withheld from the FBI investigative team because they fell outside the date range agreed to between DOJ and Ms. Wilkinson in the side letters dated June 10, 2016? f. Please indicate how many documents were withheld from the FBI investigative team because they were both not relevant AND outside the agreed upon date range. g. How many classified documents, broken down by national security classification level, were on each of the Mills and Samuelson laptops? 5. Please provide the privilege log for all documents withheld by the filter review team from the FBI investigative team for both the Mills and Samuelson laptops. If no such log was created, please create one in the same manner the Department requires private parties to satisfy their obligations under Fed. R. Civ. P. 26. 6. Please provide any opinion, memo, or other materials, whether formally endorsed or not, from the DOJ Office of Legal Counsel, or the FBI Office of the General Counsel related to the following: a. DOJ and FBI procedures on privilege review. b. The validity of Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson’s claim of attorney client privilege with respect to Secretary Clinton. c. The ability of Cheryl Mills and Heather Samuelson to sit in on the investigative interview of Secretary Clinton. 7. Please explain why DOJ agreed to limit their search of the Mills and Samuelson laptops to a date no later than January 31, 2015 and therefore give up any opportunity to find evidence related to the destruction of evidence or obstruction of justice related to Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server during her tenure as Secretary of State. 8. Why was this time limit necessary when Ms. Mills and Ms. Samuelson were granted immunity for any potential destruction of evidence charges? 9. Please confirm whether a grand jury was convened to investigate Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server. Disclosure is authorized under Fed. R. Crim. P. 6(e)(3)(A)(i) and (e)(3)(D). 10. Please confirm whether the immunity agreements listed on n. 2 and the “side agreements” between Beth Wilkinson and DOJ, dated June 10, 2016, are the entirety of the immunity agreements granted as part of the Department’s investigation into Secretary Clinton’s unauthorized use of a private email server during her tenure as Secretary of State. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee
09.28.2016	On Wednesday, September 28, 2016, Director James Comey testified before the House Judiciary Committee at an oversight hearing on the Federal Bureau of Investigation. At the hearing, members of the House Judiciary Committee pressed Director Comey on his recommendation and the Department of Justice’s decision to not prosecute Secretary Clinton for mishandling classified information through private email servers. Background: • On July 5, 2016, Director Comey announced that the FBI does not recommend criminal charges against former State Department Secretary Hillary Clinton, even though federal law criminalizes mishandling classified information with “gross negligence.” Following his announcement, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and over 200 members of Congress sent a letter to Director Comey pressing for more information regarding the many questions surrounding his recommendation. • On July 11, 2016, Chairman Goodlatte and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) requested that the Department of Justice open an investigation into whether Secretary Clinton committed perjury and made false statements when testifying under oath before Congress. Contrary to statements she made before the House Select Committee on Benghazi hearing in October 2015, Secretary Clinton sent and received emails that were marked classified at the time; her lawyers did not read each email in her personal account to identify all the work-related messages; she used several different servers and numerous devices to send and receive work-related emails; and she did not provide all of her work-related emails to the Department of Justice. Hearing Takeaways: • At the hearing, Director Comey defended the FBI’s conclusion of its investigation into Secretary Clinton, but new information casts serious doubts about whether the decision to not prosecute Hillary Clinton was made impartially. • For example, Cheryl Mills, chief of staff and counselor to Secretary Clinton at the State Department, was granted immunity for the production of her laptop and was able to be in the room with Secretary Clinton while she was interviewed by the FBI. In all of his years in law enforcement, Director Comey admitted that he had never heard of a potential witness representing a subject of an investigation during an interview with investigators. • The FBI never considered electronically recording Hillary Clinton’s interview with the FBI despite the fact that the Deputy Attorney General issued a memo to all DOJ components encouraging them to do just that in such situations. Key Videos: House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) challenges the FBI’s conclusions in the Clinton investigation and presses Director Comey on Congress’ perjury referral and the immunity deals provided to key Clinton advisors: “Hillary Clinton chose to send and receive Top Secret information over a personal, unsecure computer server housed in her various homes and once reportedly placed in a bathroom closet. These actions, without a doubt, opened these communications to hostile interception by our enemies and those who wish America harm … “We, as Congress and the American people, are troubled how such gross negligence is not punished, and why there seems to be a different standard for the well-connected.” Representative Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), a former federal prosecutor, explains why Secretary Clinton should have been prosecuted: “Intent is awfully hard to prove. Very rarely do defendants announce ahead of time ‘I intend to commit this crime on this date’ … So you have to prove it by circumstantial evidence. Such as whether or not the person intended to set up an email system outside the State Department; such as whether or not the person knew or should have known that his or her job involved handling classified information; whether or not the person was truthful about using multiple devices…. “The way to prove [intent] is whether or not someone took steps to conceal or destroy what they have done. That is the best evidence you have is that they knew it was wrong, that they lied about it.” Representative John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) presses Director Comey about why Secretary Clinton was not charged with obstruction of justice: “I want to make sure the record is clear about the evidence that you did not have [in the investigation]: The FBI did not have the Clintons’ personal Apple server used for Hillary Clinton’s work emails … An Apple MacBook laptop and thumb drive that contained Hillary Clinton’s email archives was lost … Two blackberry devices provided didn’t have SIM cards or SD data cards … 13 Hillary Clinton personal mobile devices were lost, discarded, or destroyed with a hammer … Various sever backups were deleted over time … After the State Department, and my colleague Mr. Gowdy here notified Ms. Clinton that her records would be sought by the Benghazi Committee, copies of her emails on laptops of both of her lawyers were wiped clean with BleachBit … After those emails were subpoenaed, Hillary Clinton’s email archives were also permanently deleted from the Platt River Network with BleachBit … And also after the subpoena, backups of the Platt River server were manually deleted. “Collectively this list screams obstruction of justice.”
09.23.2016	On Thursday, September 22, 2016, Director Sarah Saldaña testified before the House Judiciary Committee at an oversight hearing on U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). ICE is the federal agency that is charged with enforcing U.S. immigration laws. However, under the policies of the Obama Administration and under the direction of Director Saldaña, ICE’s immigration enforcement efforts have withered away, which results in hundreds of thousands of unlawfully present and criminal aliens remaining in American communities. Background: • Under the Obama Administration, political appointees at the Department of Homeland Security and its component agency, ICE, have made unilateral changes to the immigration system. The Administration’s policies allow criminal aliens to evade the law, make our communities less safe, enable dangerous sanctuary city policies, and encourage more illegal immigration. • In the past three years alone, ICE released over 86,000 convicted criminal aliens, including those with homicide, sexual assault, and kidnapping convictions. Additionally, nearly 370,000 known criminal aliens with deportation orders or in removal proceedings remain at large. Hearing Takeaways: • On top of the Obama Administration’s lax immigration enforcement record, DHS Secretary Johnson recently directed a review to determine if private detention facilities used to detain the vast majority of unlawful and criminal aliens should continue to be used. In response to questioning from House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Director Saldaña stated that if private detention facilities were closed, then the system would be turned upside down and ICE would not be able to meet its mandate of maintaining 34,000 detention beds. • Director Saldaña failed to explain how the number of convictions associated with criminal aliens ICE released in Fiscal Year 2014 jumped from 79,059 to 92,347—an increase of over 13,000—in just over four months. She also did not know how many of those aliens had been re-arrested for crimes after their release, but she agreed to provide that data to the Committee. • As a result of a 2001 Supreme Court decision, thousands of criminal aliens ordered deported have not been removed, often because their home countries refuse to accept them back. Yet, under current law, the U.S. State Department is able to cease issuing visas to nationals of countries that refuse to accept the return of their citizens who have been ordered removed from the United States. Several members of the House Judiciary Committee pressed Director Saldaña to explain what she and DHS officials have done to pressure the State Department to exercise this authority. She admitted that DHS has not yet formally notified the State Department to use its mandatory authority. In addition, under current law, ICE has the authority to detain terrorist aliens who cannot be removed. Yet, Director Saldaña admitted that ICE released at least one alien with a terrorism-related conviction rather than using this authority. Key Videos: House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) outlines the conflict between ICE’s mission and its so-called priorities: “ICE cannot combat illegal immigration by refusing to arrest those who have knowingly violated our immigration laws, or by releasing over 86,000 convicted criminal aliens over the last three years. These are not policies that protect Americans and help secure our borders.” Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) calls on Director Saldaña to crack down on sanctuary cities: “When I go back home, it is really hard for the people we represent to understand – particularly in light of what they perceive to be a federal government that is willing to get involved in certain state and local issues, not being as animated about jurisdictions that consider themselves as sanctuary cities. What tools do you need to be able to get local jurisdictions to cooperate?” Representative Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) presses Director Saldaña on why the Obama Administration hasn’t punished countries that refuse to take back their citizens who commit crimes in the United States: “Wouldn’t it be at a bare minimum appropriate to provide the Department of State the insistence on your behalf, through Secretary Johnson, that visas should be withheld from countries that refuse to take back the individuals who committed crimes?”
09.23.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), leaders of the bipartisan Policing Strategies Working Group, today issued the following joint statement on the police-involved shootings in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Charlotte, North Carolina, and subsequent protests: “The heartbreaking images from Tulsa and Charlotte remind us once again that our nation has much work to do on the issues of the use of force by police and the relationship between law enforcement and the community. There must be an end to these senseless acts of violence. While authorities investigate the two police-involved shootings, we call for peace and urge every American to work together to address the issues fueling tensions within their communities. “As leaders of the bipartisan Policing Strategies Working Group, we will continue to work towards solutions at the federal level on this matter of national importance.” Background: In July 2016, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers (D-Mich.) announced a bipartisan working group to examine the use of excessive force by police, aggression towards law enforcement, and public safety concerns related to these issues. Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers are leading the working group. Members of the working group are: Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Will Hurd (R-Texas), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), and Robin Kelly (D-Ill.). In July, the working group held a meeting with a pastor of an African American church and a scholar who specializes in police and community relations. In August, the working group traveled to Detroit, Michigan, to meet with local community leaders and law enforcement. Yesterday, the Policing Strategies Working Group held a private roundtable with law enforcement.
09.22.2016	Today, after obtaining an internal document from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson requesting information related to security vulnerabilities in the refugee and asylum systems. Excerpts from the letter are below: “The President's decision to increase overall refugee resettlement-and specifically that of Syrian refugees-ignores warnings from his own national security officials that Syrians cannot be adequately vetted to ensure terrorists are not admitted. Revelations about fraud, security gaps, and lack of oversight have demonstrated that the program is creating national security risks. “The Committees obtained an internal Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) document that confirms those serious concerns... The document confirms a key finding from the Staff Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States, that 'terrorists will utilize benefit fraud (to include asylum and refugee fraud) to legitimize their stay in the United States.” The deadline for DHS to respond is October 4, 2016. Full letter can be viewed here or below. Dear Mr. Secretary: The Immigration and Nationality Act requires the President to set the number of refugees to be admitted in a subsequent fiscal year after "appropriate consultation" with Congress. During each year in office, President Obama has set the refugee ceiling without consulting Congress in a meaningful way. Instead, he has informed Congress of a decision that has already been made. That was the President's approach, again, with respect to the refugee ceiling for fiscal year 2017. On September 13, 2016, Secretary of State John Kerry informed Congress that the Administration will set the refugee ceiling for FY 2017 at 110,000. He also noted that the number of Syrian refugees admitted during FY 2017 will increase to a number greater than the 13,000 that were admitted during FY 2016. In setting the number, the Administration does not appear to consider how refugee resettlement will affect local communities. The decision to resettle refugees in a community is ultimately left up to the State Department. That sensitive decision should occur in consultation with local community leaders, but it often does not. In fact, the Administration's communications with state and local officials is sometimes so perfunctory that residents are taken by surprise when refugees start arriving. The President's decision to increase overall refugee resettlement-and specifically that of Syrian refugees-ignores warnings from his own national security officials that Syrians cannot be adequately vetted to ensure terrorists are not admitted. Revelations about fraud, security gaps, and lack of oversight have demonstrated that the program is creating national security risks. Our Committees obtained an internal Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) document that confirms those serious concerns. That document is enclosed for your ready reference. The document confirms a key finding from the Staff Report of the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks upon the United States, that "terrorists will utilize benefit fraud (to include asylum and refugee fraud) to legitimize their stay in the United States." The document states: The Immigration System is a constant target for exploitation by individuals who seek to enter the United States and who are otherwise ineligible for entry based on security grounds. The Refugee Program is one such avenue in which ineligible aliens seek to enter by fraud. * * * [The] Refugee Program is particularly vulnerable to fraud due to loose evidentiary requirements where at times the testimony of an applicant alone is sufficient for approval. As a result, a range of bad actors, who use manufactured histories, biographies and other false statements, as well as produce and submit fictitious supporting documentation, have exploited this program. * * * In many instances, the applicant for a benefit (including both asylum and refugee status) receives a government issued document that contains the biographic information that the applicant supplied. This document can be used for many things, such as obtaining a driver's license. * * * Identity fraud can be prevalent in the refugee process. The uniform processing of refugees by the Dep (DHS) offices takes places in foreign refugee camps. Typically, these camps have been established outside of war zones and many have open access, thereby allowing individuals to infiltrate and purchase the identities of those individuals already in the process. * * * Refugee fraud is easy to commit, yet not easy to investigate [because] [r]efugee laws purposefully contain relaxed evidentiary requirements . . . , Refugee applications do not require sponsorship of a third party, such as a relative or employer, [and] Refugee claims are typically made in areas of the world where it is difficult to investigate the veracity of the claim. To help our Committees understand how the Administration set the refugee ceiling for FY 2017, and whether national security concerns were adequately considered with respect to increasing the number of Syrian refugees, please provide answers to the following questions: 1. Was the information contained in the internal ICE document used to inform Secretary Kerry and the White House of potential vulnerabilities related to the refugee and asylum process? 2. Was this information considered during the Administration's decision-making process for increasing the refugee ceiling by 35,000 refugees and for increasing the number of Syrian refugees? 3. When was this document circulated within DHS, and when did you receive it? 4. Was this document, and the information contained in it, shared with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services? 5. Was this document, and the information contained in it, shared with the U.S. Department of State? 6. How does DHS plan to address the challenges posed by the refugee program that are described in the document? Will DHS work with State Department to address these challenges? 7. The document contains a list of potential solutions to address vulnerabilities within the refugee and the asylum process. Which of these potential solutions has DHS implemented and which does the Department plan to implement? Provide this information as soon as possible, but no later than 5:00 p.m. on October 4, 2016. Please also provide a briefing to both Committees on this topic. The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform is the principal oversight committee of the House of Representatives and may at "any time" investigate "any matter" as set forth in House Rule X. The Committee on the Judiciary has specific jurisdiction over immigration matters. When producing documents to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, please deliver production sets to the Majority Staff in Room 2157 of the Rayburn House Office Building and the Minority Staff in Room 2471 of the Rayburn House Office Building. Documents provided to the Committee on the Judiciary should be delivered to Room 2138 of the Rayburn House Office Building. The Committees prefer, if possible, to receive all documents in electronic format. An attachment to this letter provides additional information about responding to the Committees' request.
09.22.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) today called on Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson to investigate and begin the process of revoking citizenship for people that obtained citizenship despite being ineligible and due to the Department’s systemic failures. Earlier this month, the DHS Office of Inspector General (IG) issued a report finding that at least 858 individuals who were ordered deported were instead granted citizenship because they used another identity when applying for citizenship and were not caught by federal immigration authorities since their fingerprints were never digitized and uploaded to government databases. The IG report also found that about 148,000 fingerprint records have not been digitized for aliens with final deportation orders or who are criminals or fugitives. In their letter to Secretary Johnson, Goodlatte and Gowdy call on the Department of Homeland Security to initiate a plan to investigate and refer for criminal prosecution and denaturalization proceedings each person identified in the IG’s report who has been granted citizenship based on fraudulent identity. They also call on DHS to provide information to the House Judiciary Committee about what it has done to remedy this systemic failure. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. September 22, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson, We write regarding the September 8, 2016, U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Inspector General (IG) report entitled, “Potentially Ineligible Individuals Have Been Granted U.S. Citizenship Because of Incomplete Fingerprint Records.” The IG report stated that, “USCIS granted U.S. citizenship to at least 858 individuals ordered deported or removed under another identity when, during the naturalization process, their digital fingerprint records were not in the DHS digital fingerprint repository, IDENT.” In addition, the IG found that, “U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) has identified about 148,000 older fingerprint records that have not been digitized of aliens with final deportation orders or who are criminals or fugitives.” Thus, still more individuals could have been naturalized despite their ineligibility to do so. Administration officials repeatedly tell those of us in Congress and the American people that the immigration benefits vetting process is robust and secure. Concerns we raise about the process are continuously dismissed in favor of Administration actions to expand the scope of eligibility for immigration benefits. Yet time and time again, those concerns are proven valid. Whether it is with the improper grant of a fiancée visa to an individual who goes on to commit a terrorist attack in California, or with the improper naturalization of hundreds of individuals whose fingerprints were never automated, there is no doubt that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services’ (USCIS) adjudication is not the secure and robust process that we are asked to believe. USCIS’ first responsibility is to the American people, and that responsibility is to ensure that foreign nationals approved for immigration benefits are, in fact, who they claim to be. Without such elementary knowledge of the individuals seeking immigration benefits, the U.S. immigration system and any claimed security protections therein are rendered useless. In addition, naturalization not only bestows rights and benefits to the individual naturalized, but also for their family members. So through chain migration, one individual fraudulently naturalized can result in hundreds of additional naturalizations. Such actions make a mockery of U.S. immigration law and policy. As you also know, federal law allows USCIS to refer an individual to the Department of Justice for denaturalization proceedings in the case of an individual who USCIS believes to have “illegally procured or procured by concealment of a material fact or by willful misrepresentation,” naturalization. Federal law also allows such referrals for criminal prosecution. Thus, we request that you initiate a plan to investigate and refer for criminal prosecution and denaturalization proceedings, each individual in the group described by the IG to have been naturalized based on a fraudulent identity and despite having fingerprints that were not previously entered into the system. In addition, we request the following information: 1) For the 858 individuals who were found to have been naturalized despite being ordered deported or removed under a different identity: a) How many have been investigated to determine whether they were truly eligible at the time of naturalization? b) How many aliens have been naturalized or received other immigration benefits based on the U.S. citizenship status of the fraudulently naturalized individual? What, if any, action has been taken to denaturalize or revoke immigration benefits from such individuals? c) How many have been referred to the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) for criminal prosecution? d) How many have been referred to DOJ for denaturalization proceedings? e) Of the cases referred for criminal prosecution, how many cases has DOJ agreed to prosecute and how many have been prosecuted? Please indicate the outcomes of any such prosecutions. f) Of the cases referred for denaturalization proceedings, how many cases has DOJ agreed to take and how many proceedings have been initiated? Please indicate the outcomes of those cases. g) How many have been determined, through investigation, to have been eligible for naturalization despite the fraud used to gain naturalization? For each individual found to have been eligible, please indicate the reasons for such a finding. h) Please provide us monthly updated numbers on a) through g) above as the process continues. 2) For the 148,000 fingerprint records that have not been digitized of aliens with final deportation orders or who are criminals or fugitives: a) What is your plan to investigate the number of those individuals who have been naturalized or have received other immigration benefits? b) Please provide monthly updated statistics regarding those of the 148,000 who were naturalized and the number who were naturalized under a new identity. c) Of the number who have already been naturalized, how many have been referred to DOJ for criminal prosecution? How many has DOJ agreed to prosecute? d) Of the number who have already been naturalized, how many have been referred to DOJ for denaturalization proceedings? Against how many has DOJ agreed to begin denaturalization proceedings? Please respond to the above questions no later than October 5, 2016. If you have questions regarding this letter, please contact Andrea Loving on the House Judiciary Committee staff at (202) 225-3926. We appreciate in advance, your prompt response. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman Trey Gowdy Subcommittee Chairman
09.22.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are calling on the Justice Department to explain its role in advising the Obama Administration in its plan to relinquish authority of key internet domain name functions. In a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch, the chairmen express concern about the proposal, given an abundance of unanswered questions regarding internet openness, control of government domains, the disposal of government property and antitrust considerations. “With so many outstanding questions remaining, especially in the areas in which DOJ would seem to have direct subject matter expertise, we believe it is important to understand what input and contributions the Attorney General and the DOJ made in blessing this transfer and in answering many of the specific questions that were raised by other agency participants during the process,” the chairmen said in the letter. The chairmen raised specific concerns that the proposal relies upon a non-binding letter between the U.S. and the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) to safeguard Top Level Domains such as .gov and .mil. They are also seeking details of any legal analysis of the constitutionality of relinquishing ownership of U.S. government property, such as the root zone file, without congressional approval. Finally, the chairmen are seeking details on any analysis DOJ conducted regarding the antitrust implications of terminating the U.S. government’s contract with ICANN. Text of the Grassley-Goodlatte letter follows: September 21, 2016 The Honorable Loretta E. Lynch Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: The National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) has indicated that it intends to transfer key Internet domain name functions, known as the Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA) functions, to a global multi-stakeholder community at the end of Fiscal Year 2016. As you are aware, when announcing this proposed transition on March, 2014, the NTIA specified that such a proposal must have broad community support and maintain the security, stability, and resiliency of the Internet Domain Name System (DNS), meet the needs of the multi-stakeholder community and enhance the multi-stakeholder model, and maintain the openness of the Internet. Further, NTIA affirmed that it would “not accept a proposal that replaces the NTIA role with a government-led or an inter-governmental organization solution.”[1] We’re sure you would agree that the openness, security, and stability of the Internet are of paramount importance to all Internet users, and yet a number of outstanding issues related to this proposed transition have yet to be answered, threatening these very values. These include how the transfer will effect free speech and the openness of the Internet, if U.S. control of the .mil and .gov domains will be compromised, if the transfer will open the Internet to undue influence from foreign nations, if the transfer will lead to the improper conveyance of United States government property, or if the transfer affects any existing antitrust immunity and increases the likelihood of significant antitrust litigation. Further, a recent Declaration by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers’ (ICANN) Independent Review Panel calls into question the credibility of ICANN’s ability to carry out basic duties of board self-governance.[2] This document reveals that ICANN’s Board Governance Committee has “failed several transparency obligations,”[3] engaged in the “cavalier treatment”[4] of constituent requests, and failed to undertake an examination of whether ICANN staff or contractors complied with their obligations under the Articles and Bylaws of incorporation (finding that this failure is “itself a failure by the Board to comply with its obligations under the Articles and Bylaws.”).[5] These failures raise serious concerns about the ability ICANN to exercise proper corporate oversight and call into question ICANN’s organizational maturity. Simply put, with so many unanswered questions and from what available evidence we do have, this transition is not in the best interest of a free, open, and secure Internet – nor is it in the best interest of the United States. Ending the United States contractual relationship with ICANN is dangerous and it is bad policy. According to NTIA, the Department of Justice (DOJ) has participated in a “DNS Interagency Working Group” of U.S. government agencies who have been tasked with developing a methodology to assess whether or not the NTIA’s criteria are met. Specifically, the DNS Interagency Working Group has convened at least monthly to “coordinate and develop policies and positions related to DNS issues” and engage on “matters related to the IANA Stewardship Transition, including proposal review and assessment.”[6] NTIA recently announced that it expects the transition proposal will meet the agency criteria set forth in 2014, presumably with the support of the DNS Interagency Working Group, and plans to allow NTIA’s contract with ICANN to lapse. As a key agency participant in the discussion surrounding the transfer of the IANA functions, we are interested in DOJ’s substantive input concerning the decision to transfer the IANA functions and to allow the federal government’s contract with ICANN to lapse. With so many outstanding questions remaining, especially in areas in which DOJ would seem to have direct subject matter expertise, we believe it is important to understand what input and contributions the Attorney General and the DOJ made in blessing this transfer and in answering many of the specific questions that were raised by other agency participants during the process. We are deeply troubled that DOJ’s Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) has not provided a formal legal opinion concerning these issues, including the constitutional questions. As you know, OLC provides authoritative legal advice to the President and all Executive Branch agencies, including legal advice on all constitutional questions. It is quite frankly shocking that the Commerce Department would fail to seek such an opinion before proceeding down this path. NTIA has acknowledged widespread concerns related to the potential loss of control of U.S. governmentally administered domain names such as .mil and .gov. In an attempt to allay these concerns, NTIA has stated that the operation of these Top Level Domains (TLDs) are not impacted by the transition and that “per the policies, procedures, and practices in place, .mil and .gov cannot be transferred without explicit agreement from the current administrators of those domains – namely, the U.S. government.”[7] Yet, the only mechanism NTIA has enacted to affirm that the United States is, and will remain, the administrator of .gov and .mil TLDs is through the exchange of non-binding letters with ICANN. As such, the only true assurance the United States has regarding the important .mil and .gov TLDs comes from a non-legally binding, two paragraph letter from ICANN CEO Goran Marby that calls on ICANN to honor and maintain its commitments with respect to the U.S. governmentally administered TLDs. These assurances are certainly are not legally binding and could lead to the loss of the TLDs despite the declarations of NTIA and ICANN. As you are likely aware, concerns continue to exist regarding whether or not the administration has the constitutional authority to conduct the IANA transition without the authorization of Congress because of the United States property interests in the root zone file – or other similar components of the Internet that were created and financed by the United States. Under Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution, Congress has the exclusive power “to dispose of and make all needful rules and regulations respecting the territory or other property belonging to the United States.” Additionally, should NTIA end its contract with ICANN, any antitrust protections that ICANN currently enjoys as an organization operating under government control would end. ICANN may then be vulnerable to a dramatic increase in antitrust suits and could be compelled to seek the protection of other governmental or quasi-governmental entities to limit this exposure. Should ICANN seek a new antitrust shield in this manner, ICANN could be subject to limitations on political freedoms that come from groups such as the United Nations International Telecommunications Union. With these issues in mind, please provide answers to the following questions: • With regard to the security of the .mil, .gov, and U.S. governmentally administered TLDs, does the Attorney General and the Justice Department believe that the mere exchange of letters between NTIA and ICANN is preferable to a binding legal agreement? If so why? Please provide the Department’s rationale? • Did the DOJ advise NTIA regarding this resolution of government administered TLDs? • Should ICANN delegate U.S. government administered TLDs, contrary to current assurances, what action will the DOJ take? • With the lack of certainty over the disposition of government property in the IANA transfer, has NTIA ever referred this issue to DOJ for analysis or has DOJ ever conducted an analysis of this question on its own? If so, what are its findings? • Does the Attorney General believe that there is no possibility that NTIA’s planned transition of the IANA functions may potentially relinquish ownership of United States property? What analysis did you conduct to come to this conclusion? • As a member of the DNS Interagency Working Group or otherwise, has the DOJ conducted a review of the antitrust implications of NTIA’s termination of its contract with ICANN? If so, please provide a copy of this review. If not, why not? This unalterable action poses serious ramifications for the security and openness of the Internet. As a member of the DNS Interagency Working Group, we’d like to know what role that you and the DOJ played in this transition. We appreciate your timely responses to these important questions no later than September 27, 2016. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary CC: The Honorable Shaun Donovan Director, Office of Management and Budget
09.22.2016	On January 17, 2016, an unmarked airplane transported $400 million in cash to Iran, coinciding with the release of five American hostages. According to the State Department, the sum was paid to Iran for undelivered military equipment from the 1970s. However, the payment was withheld from Iran until the American hostages were released. Since news of these actions went public last month, questions have arisen about the nature of this payment and whether it was in fact a ransom payment to Iran. Tonight, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on passage in the House of Representatives of H.R. 5931, the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act, by a vote of 254-163: “While the State Department refuses to call this $400 million in cash paid to Iran a ransom payment, the timing of the payment is certainly no coincidence. Paying ransom has serious foreign policy implications and does more harm than good. It empowers, emboldens, and incentivizes our adversaries across the globe to capture and hold Americans hostage for ransom. Tonight, I supported the Prohibiting Future Ransom Payments to Iran Act to prohibit all cash payments to Iran – period. H.R. 5931 also requires greater transparency to Congress on any future settlements with Iran. The Obama Administration has misled the American people, putting more American lives in harm’s way. These actions will not stand. The United States must continue to stand our ground against deplorable actions of terrorists, not cave to them or those who seek to support them.”
09.21.2016	Yesterday, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) recognized Adam and Lynsey Stultz of Roanoke as the Sixth District of Virginia’s 2016 “Angels in Adoption.” The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s Angels in Adoption Program celebrates individuals, couples, or organizations from across the nation making an extraordinary contribution on behalf of children in need of homes. Members of Congress have the opportunity to honor one nominee from each congressional district per year. Congressman Goodlatte is a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption. A ceremony was held in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday to honor these nominees. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement: “It is my honor to recognize the Stultz family as the Sixth District’s 2016 ‘Angels in Adoption.’ The story of the Stultz family is one of love and perseverance. For over three years, Adam and Lynsey waited to bring their two adopted daughters home from the Democratic Republic of the Congo. While political turmoil in that country prevented them from bringing their legally-adopted daughters to the United States, they did not give up. After multiple trips, countless Skype calls, advocacy for their daughters’ release, and a community of prayer, Adam and Lynsey welcomed both girls home to Roanoke earlier this year. They are truly deserving of this recognition. Their perseverance and love have changed the lives of two little girls, and taken another step toward making the dream of a loving family a reality for every child.”
09.21.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on today’s approval by the House of Representatives of the Require Evaluation before Implementing Executive Wishlists (REVIEW) Act of 2016 (H.R. 3438) by a vote of 244-180. Goodlatte: “High-impact regulations are often litigated in the courts for years, and hardworking Americans too often must cover billions in compliance costs for these regulations even as they pursue successful litigation to challenge them. This costly and wasteful practice is another regulatory burden that can easily be taken off the backs of the American people. “The passage of the REVIEW Act is a better way to reduce wasteful government spending and ensure Americans can keep their hard-earned money. The bill frees up billions of precious dollars to be spent on the jobs and investment America currently needs.” Background: Introduced by Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Marino and cosponsored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte, the REVIEW Act stops “high impact rules” with costs of $1 billion dollars or more annually from taking effect until any timely-filed court challenges to the regulations in question are concluded. The REVIEW Act amends the Administrative Procedure Act to establish: • a definition for “high-impact rules”—those costing $1 billion or more annually; and, • an automatic administrative stay of all “high-impact rules” pending final judicial review if a legal challenge is filed within 60 days of the rules’ issuance or the time otherwise prescribed to seek judicial review. Click here to learn more about the bill.
09.16.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement ahead of the commemoration of the 229th anniversary of the signing of the Constitution of the United States on September 17th: “The Framers of the Constitution presented our nation with a founding document that has shaped who we are as a nation, defining a system of government designed to keep government in check so that individual freedom could flourish. “As a Member of Congress and Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I am constantly reminded of the Constitution’s importance and the role it plays in the work I do. This is why I initiated and led the public reading of the Constitution on the Floor of the House of Representatives during the opening days of the last three Congresses. I believe it is important for both Republican and Democratic Members of Congress to be reminded of the Constitution’s provisions and the oaths they have taken to uphold that language. “I encourage all citizens to pause and reflect on our Constitution today, and the protections it continues to provide to guard our God-given rights as Americans.”
09.14.2016	On Wednesday, September 21, 2016, at 10:00 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee, chaired by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), will hold a third hearing to examine the allegations of misconduct and articles of impeachment filed against IRS Commissioner John Koskinen. Commissioner Koskinen will be the sole witness before the Committee. The House Judiciary Committee previously invited Commissioner Koskinen to testify in May regarding the allegations of misconduct but he declined to participate at that time. At the House Judiciary Committee’s first hearing on the matter in May 2016, House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) and Congressman Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.) testified that IRS Commissioner Koskinen failed to comply with a congressional subpoena which resulted in destruction of key evidence, made false statements during his sworn congressional testimony, and did not promptly notify Congress that Lois Lerner’s emails were missing. At the second hearing in June 2016, members heard from outside experts on the findings presented by the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and whether further congressional action is warranted. The hearing will be webcast live at https://judiciary.house.gov/.
09.13.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today called on President Obama to cease commuting the sentences of serious violent felons and other drug traffickers who pose a threat to America’s public safety. Although the President has the constitutional authority to issue pardons and commutations, President Obama has initiated an unprecedented clemency program for federal drug offenders and has granted more commutations than the previous 10 presidents combined. As part of his clemency initiative, President Obama has commuted the sentences of individuals who have serious violent felony convictions, significant connections to organized crime or gangs, or individuals convicted under the Kingpin statute. In his letter to President Obama, Congressman Goodlatte expresses deep concern about the President’s use of clemency, particularly for serious violent felons, and calls on him to stop awarding clemency to serious violent felons. Congressman Goodlatte also shares with the President a letter written by Sheriff Donald L. Smith of Augusta County, Virginia, that expresses concern about the impending release of a habitual drug trafficking felon, who has prior convictions for possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense, which is classified as a serious violent felony under federal law. Below is the text of Congressman Goodlatte’s letter. The signed copy can be found here. September 13, 2016 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House Washington, D.C. Dear Mr. President: I write to share my profound concern with your use of the Constitutional pardon power. No one disputes that the President has the authority to issue pardons and commutations. Article II of the Constitution states that “The President...shall have Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment.” However, during your presidency, you have commuted the sentences of no fewer than 673 federal offenders – more than the previous 10 presidents combined. This is despite the fact that the Justice Department’s own U.S. Attorney’s Manual states that “commutation of sentence is an extraordinary remedy that is rarely granted.” The vast majority of these commutations have been granted during your second term, and the vast majority of recipients have been federal drug trafficking offenders. The Justice Department’s Clemency Initiative, formed in 2014, established criteria for the consideration of commutation petitions for drug trafficking offenders. However, in many cases the individuals whose sentences you have commuted have been convicted of serious violent felonies. As an example, the enclosed letter is from Sheriff Donald L. Smith of Augusta County, in Virginia’s Sixth Congressional District. Sheriff Smith is deeply concerned about the impending release of a habitual drug trafficking felon, who will be released on December 1, 2016, after serving only nine years of a 33-year sentence. This individual has prior convictions for, among other things, possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking offense, which is classified as a serious violent felony under federal law. Many of the offenders whose sentences you have commuted have been convicted of similar firearms-related offenses. An alarming number of offenders whose sentences you have commuted were convicted of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony under 18 U.S.C. § 924(c). And other offenders have been convicted under 21 U.S.C. § 848, commonly known as the “Kingpin statute,” which applies to offenders who committed a felony violation of the federal Controlled Substances Act “as part of a continuing series of violations,” in concert with “five or more persons,” over whom the offender “occupie[d] a position of organizer, a supervisory position, or any other position of management,” and obtained “substantial income or resources” as a result. These are clearly not low-level, non-violent drug offenders. Commuting the sentences of individuals who have serious violent felony convictions, significant connections to organized crime or gangs, or individuals convicted under the Kingpin statute, is extremely troubling. It is also plainly at odds with the Department’s own published criteria for considering commutation petitions, and poses a significant danger to public safety. If your Administration believes the sentences for certain drug trafficking offenses are too harsh, it should work through Congress, which is the branch of government responsible for assigning the penalties for federal criminal offenses, rather than using the clemency process to circumvent congressional intent. I trust that any additional commutations issued before the end of your presidency will not be awarded to serious violent felons and other drug traffickers who pose a threat to America’s public safety. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
09.13.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after meeting with Secretary of State John Kerry and learning that the Obama Administration plans to set the refugee ceiling for Fiscal Year 2017 at 110,000 and bring in more Syrian refugees this coming year: “Every year it becomes increasingly clear that our nation’s refugee resettlement program is in need of reform. For generations, the United States has been a safe haven for people fleeing persecution. We must remain compassionate toward refugees but we also need to make sure that we use commonsense. Unfortunately, President Obama unilaterally increases the number of refugees resettled in the United States each year and gives little thought as to how it will impact local communities. The President also continues to ignore warnings from his own national security officials and plans to bring in even more Syrian refugees over the next year. “The House Judiciary Committee has approved the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act to make meaningful reforms that curb fraud, strengthen national security and public safety, and restore integrity to the program. The bill sets the annual refugee resettlement ceiling so that the People’s duly elected representatives in Congress, not the President, decide what that number should be. It also empowers state and local governments to decide whether or not refugee resettlement is best for their communities. Given that the Obama Administration continues to tune out the American people’s concerns on this issue, it’s time for Congress to take up this legislation so that the refugee program works in their best interest.” Background: In March 2016, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 4731). This bill, authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Vice Chairman Raul Labrador (R-Idaho) and Chairman Bob Goodlatte, reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. In November 2015, the House passed the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015. The bill requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. Senate Democrats blocked it from passing.
09.12.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson for information about a criminal immigrant previously deported at least five times who is currently illegally present in the United States and reportedly responsible for nearly a dozen sexual assaults. Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales is charged with six felony offenses, including aggravated sexual assault, aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, and aggravated kidnapping. According to news reports, Coria-Gonzales was arrested after allegedly kidnapping a woman and attempting to light her on fire using gasoline. Additionally, Coria-Gonzales allegedly kidnapped and raped a 68-year old woman. Federal immigration authorities report that Coria-Gonzales was previously convicted of criminal charges, including three charges of driving while intoxicated. Police say that Coria-Gonzales has confessed to several of the crimes and media reports indicate that he has admitted that he beat the victims out of anger. In the chairmen’s letter to Secretary Johnson, they demand his department explain how such a dangerous criminal could be allowed to continually reenter the United States illegally and continue his criminal conduct without intervention by federal immigration authorities. They request that DHS provide his immigration and criminal history to learn about how he illegally entered the U.S. multiple times. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. September 12, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to request case information on Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales, a criminal alien illegally present in the United States and an alleged serial rapist, who police believe is responsible for nearly a dozen sexual assaults. He is currently charged with six felony offenses, including aggravated sexual assault, aggravated assault with a deadly weapon, and aggravated kidnapping. According to news reports, Coria-Gonzales was arrested after allegedly kidnapping a woman and attempting to light her on fire using gasoline. Additionally, Coria-Gonzales allegedly kidnapped and raped a 68-year old woman. It is astonishing that Coria-Gonzales has been deported at least five times by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), according to investigators. ICE reports that Coria-Gonzales was previously convicted of criminal charges, including three charges of driving while intoxicated. Police say that Coria-Gonzales has confessed to several of the crimes and media reports indicate that he has admitted that he beat the victims out of anger. We want to know how such a dangerous individual could be allowed to continually reenter the country illegally and continue his criminal conduct without intervention by ICE. In order to better understand Coria-Gonzales’ immigration and criminal history, we are seeking answers regarding his multiple illegal entries and residency in the United States. Therefore, please provide both Committees on the Judiciary with the following information as soon as possible, but not later than September 21: 1. The alien registration number for Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales, his complete alien file (A-file), including any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all documents generated by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history and immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. Please identify and explain each and every encounter that DHS or any of its agencies has had with Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales, including the date of the encounter, whether the encounter resulted in detention or the issuance of a detainer or request for notification, whether the encounter resulted in the initiation of removal proceedings or reinstatement of a prior removal order against him, and the current status of those removal proceedings or reinstatement. 3. Please identify each and every date on which Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales was arrested by a law enforcement agency in the United States, including criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charges, the jurisdictions where the arrests occurred, the dispositions of the charges, the dates on which he was released from the custody of the law enforcement agencies, and the reasons for the release. 4. If a local law enforcement agency declines to honor a detainer or notify ICE regarding Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales, what action will DHS take to ensure that he is not released from custody and allowed to reoffend? 5. Did Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales ever apply for any immigration benefit, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales may have submitted, whether or not adjudicated. 6. Is Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 7. If Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his recent arrest for sexual assault, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Administration’s Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? 8. Have any victims associated with the crimes allegedly committed by Nicodemo Coria-Gonzales been contacted by officials at ICE? Please provide details. As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary
09.09.2016	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), and House Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (R-Texas) introduced the Midnight Rules Relief Act (H.R. 5982) to halt the implementation of high-cost or politically-driven regulations during the last days and months of the Obama administration. The Midnight Rules Relief Act creates a rapid-response method for Congress to act when an outgoing presidential administration attempts to impose major regulations without the transparency and scrutiny expected in normal regulatory implementation. The bill specifically amends the Congressional Review Act (CRA) to allow CRA resolutions that disapprove of multiple midnight rules to be passed by the incoming Congress, allowing Congress to better scrutinize and stop midnight rules which are truly problematic—such as those that defy the message sent by the voters or those that have been poorly designed in the haste of the midnight rule period. Goodlatte: “The regulatory agendas of presidential administrations are often fiercest in the last months and days of that administration. These midnight rules are passed before time runs out on a presidency, and can too easily go unchecked by Congress. What the American people are left with are regulations issued by presidential administrations that often have a far more lasting impact than the administration itself. “Midnight regulations should be subjected to even greater transparency, public scrutiny, and congressional oversight because the rules are often introduced with political motivations or to make one final push for an outgoing administration to complete their political agenda in office. “Providing a mechanism to overturn President Obama’s midnight regulations will deter the practice in future presidencies, and allow Congress to take greater control over the runaway administrative state we have seen arise in recent years.”
09.08.2016	Today, Reps. Bob Goodlatte (VA-06), H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09), and Robert Hurt (VA-05) sent a letter to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) requesting that they not only hold one-on-one meetings, but public hearing type meetings with constituents in Virginia pertaining to the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP). Below is the text of the letter. Please click here for the signed copy. The Honorable Norman C. Bay Chairman Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 888 1st Street NE Washington, DC 20426-0002 Dear Chairman Bay: We write to you on behalf of constituents who are interested in the upcoming public comment meetings that will be held in conjunction with completion of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Mountain Valley Pipeline (MVP). Our constituents have indicated to us that they are concerned that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) meetings may not follow a true open to the public format. Rather, they have indicated that the MVP meetings may instead be comprised of opportunities for comment only through private sessions with FERC officials who will transcribe comments for the record. The DEIS for the MVP project deserves to be discussed in an open, public forum that both supporters and opponents have come to expect in the scoping process for the project. This allows free discussion of all facets of the project and also accommodates the media’s coverage of such proceedings. Additionally, we suggest that FERC’s meetings also provide an option for individuals who prefer to discuss their concerns or offer their comments through the one-on-one format. We respectfully ask you to give thorough consideration to the format that we have suggested for all upcoming meetings related to the Mountain Valley Pipeline. We believe it is the fairest method by which FERC can ensure full and transparent comments from the public about the project. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Member of Congress H. Morgan Griffith Member of Congress Robert Hurt Member of Congress
09.07.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement inviting all high school students in the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to participate in the Congressional App Challenge: “Photos, games, maneuvering traffic, keeping in touch, monitoring exercise – there are apps for all of it! A vast majority of folks already depend on technology for work, recreation, health care needs, and education. Technology is at the center of the global economy, and today’s youth will continue to drive this technology focus. The Congressional App Challenge is a great opportunity to promote the importance of education in STEM fields and engage students in the Sixth District in coding and computer science. I encourage students and teachers to participate in this challenge, and I look forward to seeing the next big app created right in our backyard.” Additional Information: The Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide contest for high school students to create and exhibit a software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice. The deadline for all submissions is November 2, 2016. Students may participate individually or in groups of up to four. Participants must either reside in, or attend high school in, the Sixth Congressional District. For more information on the challenge and the requirements, visit www.congressionalappchallenge.us. Interested students and educators may also contact Congressman Goodlatte’s Washington, D.C., office at 202-225-5431 with any questions.
09.07.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised the bipartisan passage of his legislation, the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063), in the House of Representatives by a vote of 241-174. This bill bars the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other government agencies, from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of their settlement agreements with the federal government. Need for this legislation became apparent after a 20-month House Judiciary Committee investigation found that DOJ had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of systematically subverting Congress’s spending power by using settlements from financial institutions to funnel money to left-wing activist groups. This bill would end this practice and restore accountability to the appropriations process. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement upon passage of the bill: “Whether you are a Republican or a Democrat, the Constitution is clear: Congress shall have the power to appropriate. “The practices discovered within the DOJ must be stopped. The passage of this bill by the House ensures the recovered funds are used to benefit direct victims and not special interests, and brings accountability to the Executive Branch as a whole.” Click here to learn more about the bill.
09.06.2016	The House of Representatives today unanimously approved by a vote of 399-0 the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act of 2016 (H.R. 5578) to provide protections for survivors of sexual assault. Representatives Mimi Walters (R-Calif.) and Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) introduced this bipartisan bill to ensure that sexual assault survivors in federal criminal cases have a right to a sexual assault evidence collection kit, are notified in writing before the kit is destroyed, request preservation of the kit, and are informed of important results from a forensic examination. The Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act also requires the Attorney General and the United States Department of Health and Human Services to convene a joint working group on best practices regarding the care and treatment of sexual assault survivors and the preservation of forensic evidence. The House Judiciary Committee approved this bill in July. Representative Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Walters, and Representative Lofgren praised House passage of the bill in the statements below. Chairman Goodlatte: “Sexual assault survivors should not have to face further trauma and barriers to justice after such a traumatic experience. The Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act standardizes procedures and enhances protections for survivors of sexual assault to ensure dignified care and access to justice for them. I applaud Representatives Walters and Lofgren for introducing this important bipartisan bill and will keep working to see the Senate pass it so that it can be expeditiously signed into law.” Rep. Walters: “I am pleased that the House of Representatives passed the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act today. This bipartisan bill would ensure sexual assault survivors have access to basic rights and allow them full access to justice in federal courts. I thank my colleagues for their support and will continue to advocate for the rights of survivors of sexual assault.” Rep. Lofgren: “This is a big step towards fixing an insufficient, broken patchwork that deprives victims of a fair legal process. Today’s vote to overwhelmingly pass the Survivors’ Bill of Rights Act means we are much closer to ensuring victims of sexual assault have meaningful access to justice.” Amanda Nguyen, the founder and president of Rise who has championed this legislation, praised today’s House approval of H.R. 5578: “We are so grateful for Representative Mimi Walters and Zoe Lofgren’s leadership to champion the Sexual Assault Survivors’ Bill of Rights. Today’s vote will have a profound impact on the lives of the more than 25 million survivors of sexual assault across the U.S.” Earlier, Chairman Goodlatte spoke on the House floor in support of this legislation. Click here to view the video.
08.31.2016	House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) announced that House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) bipartisan Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063) will receive a vote by the full House of Representatives next week. Introduced by Chairman Goodlatte, this bill bars the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other government agencies, from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of their settlement agreements with the federal government. Need for this legislation arose after a 20-month House Judiciary Committee investigation found that DOJ had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of systematically subverting Congress’s Spending Power by using settlements from financial institutions to funnel money to left-wing activist groups. This bill would end this practice and restore accountability to the appropriations process. House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the following statements upon announcement of the vote: Majority Leader McCarthy: “There is currently a highly questionable practice where money the Department of Justice collects from lawbreakers is sent to special interest groups instead of being given as restitution to victims of the crime or deposited into the Treasury. This means money that should be used for the public good or to right a wrong instead is channeled without transparency to third parties with special connections within the government. Chairman Goodlatte’s bill—part of our A Better Way agenda — will stop this abusive special-interest slush fund, which is why I’ve scheduled it to be considered on the House floor next week.” Chairman Goodlatte: “When the DOJ recovers money from parties who have broken the law, those funds should be going to victims or to the Treasury for Congress to decide how the money should best be used. This is a process that ensures accountability and provides for effective oversight of our Executive Branch. “Congress is working to help hardworking Americans recover from the 2008 financial crisis, only to learn that the DOJ has been taking the sought after funds from major financial institutions, and quietly putting them in the hands of left-wing special interest groups. “It is time for this practice within the DOJ, as well as all government agencies to be stopped. I am proud to be working with my colleagues in order to ensure the recovered funds are used to benefit direct victims and not special interests, and I look forward to leading the debate on this bill next week.” Background: • The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 prohibits settlement terms that require donations to third-parties. It states explicitly that payments to provide restitution for actual harm directly caused, including harm to the environment, are not donations. • An investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees reveals that, in just the last two years, the DOJ has used mandatory donations to direct as much as $880 million dollars to activist groups. • These payments occur entirely outside of the Congressional appropriations and oversight process. • The House Judiciary Committee held two hearings, in February 2015 and May 2015, to question DOJ officials regarding these troubling settlement practices. • The Committees also sent multiple oversight letters, including two to the DOJ (in November 2014 and May 2015) seeking documents and answers. • Documents obtained by the Committee confirm that activist groups which stood to gain from mandatory donation provisions were involved in placing those provisions in the settlements. • This bill is modeled after Chairman Goodlatte’s 2015 amendment to the Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (H.R. 2578), which passed the House by a voice vote. • A legislative hearing on the bill was held on May 28, 2016 within the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law.
08.29.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson for information about a criminal alien known by federal authorities who carjacked and robbed two elderly women at gunpoint in Kansas City, Missouri. Eduardo Irhneis Escobar, an unlawful immigrant from Honduras, was convicted for felony assault in 2010 and has been encountered by federal immigration authorities since then. Instead of holding Escobar in custody and seeking to remove him from the United States, he was allowed to remain at large and rob and attack two women, ages 63 and 91, on August 16, 2016. In the letter to Secretary Johnson, Chairman Goodlatte asserts that DHS “did not take all appropriate actions to ensure the safety and security of the American public” and calls on the Department to provide the House Judiciary Committee Escobar’s full immigration history and encounters with law enforcement. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. August 29, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: On August 16, 2016, Eduardo Irhneis Escobar, an alien from Honduras illegally present in the United States, allegedly carjacked and robbed two women at gunpoint in Kansas City, Missouri. During the robbery, Escobar ordered the women, ages 63 and 91, out of their vehicle and began to drive away in the stolen car. According to police, when the 91 year-old victim failed to exit the vehicle as demanded, Escobar pushed her out of the moving vehicle and onto the roadside. He then led police on a high-speed chase at speeds of over a hundred miles per hour, driving into oncoming traffic lanes and colliding with at least one vehicle before crashing into a steep embankment. Police apprehended Escobar as he attempted to escape on foot. He is currently charged with first-degree robbery and armed criminal action, both felonies, for which he could be sentenced to a minimum of ten years, up to life imprisonment. The level of apparent violence and callousness exhibited by Escobar toward the helpless victims of this robbery is astonishing. Equally astonishing is the fact that Escobar was not in the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), despite his illegal presence and a 2010 conviction for felony assault. According to ICE, Escobar “has been encountered several times [by ICE] since 2010,” and he was released from custody on August 8 due to a “clerical error.” Moreover, Escobar falsely claimed to be a derivative United States citizen through his mother, who also falsely claimed to be a United States citizen using a stolen birth certificate and was criminally prosecuted and convicted in 2014 for making the false claim. As such, it would appear that ICE was aware that Escobar was an illegally present, removable alien with a felony assault conviction in 2014, if not before. So, it is incomprehensible that Escobar was not held in ICE custody pending proceedings to seek his removal from the United States. Instead, he was allowed to remain at large and brutally rob and attack these vulnerable victims. Escobar is an unlawfully present alien with a violent felony conviction, who was known to ICE and apparently taken into custody, but inexplicably released back to the street. Thus, it would appear that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) did not take all appropriate actions to ensure the safety and security of the American public. Therefore, please provide the following information no later than September 12, 2016: 1. The alien registration number for Escobar, his complete alien file (A-file), including any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all reports or notifications generated by DHS or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history or immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Escobar was encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which he was released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did Escobar enter the United States? Was he ever served with a Notice to Appear? Was it filed with an immigration court? Please explain. 4. Did Escobar ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that he may have submitted, whether or not adjudicated. 5. Has Escobar been removed previously? If so, when? 6. Has ICE issued a detainer or request for notification to any entity regarding Escobar? Please explain. 7. Has Escobar ever been a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 8. Has Escobar ever asserted a claim to U.S. citizenship? For every claim of U.S. citizenship asserted by Escobar, please state the date the claim was made, by whom and to whom it was made, the manner in which it was asserted, and all actions taken by ICE ERO and the Office of Principal Legal Advisor to investigate and determine the validity of such claim. 9. If Escobar had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his latest arrest for robbery, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Administration’s Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
08.25.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement regarding the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) release of its Media Ownership Rules: “Today, the FCC continues its recent tradition of advancing unnecessary and burdensome regulations on a partisan basis while ignoring new technologies and market realities, with the likely outcome of harming competition. While the goal of preventing the consolidation of media power in the hands of an elite few has merit, the FCC has again overreacted. This time, it has reacted in a way that is likely to harm the objectives of smaller media outlets eager to compete.” Background: Under the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Congress requires the FCC to conduct a review every four years of the FCC’s broadcast ownership rules and determine whether the rules are necessary in light of changing competitive conditions. The last time the FCC fulfilled this legal obligation was a decade ago. Furthermore, its past reviews have been embroiled in litigation requiring the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit to remand significant components of past rulemakings back to the FCC. Most recently, the Third Circuit struck down the FCC’s latest attempt at issuing a broadcast media ownership rule. Today, the FCC attempts to fulfill its quadrennial review obligations by issuing its broadcast media ownership rules.
08.18.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today pressed Attorney General Loretta Lynch on the Department of Justice’s refusal to combat rampant asylum fraud. A report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on December 2, 2015, found that DOJ’s component agency, the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR) failed to develop policies and procedures across the agency to detect and prevent asylum fraud. That same report indicates that immigration judges granted asylum to 3,709 aliens who were connected to attorneys and document preparers convicted as a result of a multi-agency criminal investigation headed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) into fraudulent asylum claims in New York City, labeled Operation Fiction Writer. The Department of Justice recently reported to the House Judiciary Committee that EOIR has taken no action to review the cases of 3,709 asylum applicants who were granted asylum by immigration judges, despite EOIR’s knowledge that the cases likely involve fraud. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte calls on the Justice Department to take swift action to review and reopen each of the 3,709 cases referenced in the GAO report to determine if fraud is present and to pursue revocation of asylum in those cases where fraud is established. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. August 18, 2016 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: In a stunning revelation, the Department of Justice recently reported to this Committee that a component agency, the Executive Office for Immigration Review (EOIR), has taken no action to review the cases of more than 3,700 asylum applicants who were granted asylum by immigration judges, despite EOIR’s knowledge that the cases likely involve fraud. A report by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on December 2, 2015, found that EOIR failed to develop policies and procedures across the agency to detect and prevent asylum fraud. That same report indicates that immigration judges granted asylum to 3,709 aliens who were connected to attorneys and document preparers convicted in a multi-agency criminal investigation headed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) into fraudulent asylum claims in New York City, labeled Operation Fiction Writer. On July 6, 2016, DOJ responded to questions for the record that were submitted to EOIR Director Juan Osuna on December 17, 2015, following his testimony before this Committee on December 3, 2015. In response to questions regarding the referenced GAO report and EOIR’s efforts to address asylum fraud, Assistant Attorney General Peter Kadzik stated that, as of December 3, 2015, EOIR “has not conducted additional, independent actions” in any of the 3,709 cases since providing “substantial assistance” during the investigation and prosecution of the criminal cases and had reopened none of the cases in which asylum was granted by an immigration judge. It is important to note that DOJ has been fully aware of the fraud associated with these cases for several years. The FBI began its investigation into these fraudulent asylum claims around 2010. Indeed, the indictments of some of those charged by the U.S. Attorney’s Office in 2012 reflect that in many cases, the aliens seeking asylum were significantly involved in the fraudulent scheme by memorizing the fraudulent stories provided to them, rehearsing their answers to anticipated questions, and by obtaining fraudulent documents to support their claims. At least one indictment states that most of the aliens had not actually suffered persecution. In DOJ’s response to the Committee, Assistant Attorney General Kadzik states that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is charged with prosecuting cases before EOIR and, as such, he suggests that DHS has the responsibility to seek reopening in these cases. Citing statutory and regulatory authority, he further suggests that it is not EOIR’s responsibility to reopen cases where fraud is suspected. That response is incomplete and misleading because EOIR regulations clearly authorize an immigration judge to reopen a case in which asylum is granted on “his or her own motion at any time.” While DHS prosecutors should endeavor to reopen cases involving fraud and while DHS may ultimately bear the burden of evidentiary proof in such proceedings, EOIR’s immigration judges have the independent authority to reopen cases – and justice demands that they do so where fraud is suspected. As the chief law enforcement officer of the United States, you, above all others, should be the most vigilant protector of the rights of those who suffer most from asylum fraud – the bona fide asylum seekers, whose claims are stymied by a bureaucratic process that seemingly rewards wrongdoers and cheaters. This was the very sentiment of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York who prosecuted the attorneys and preparers involved in these cases: “The United States opens its arms to victims of persecution across the globe, and our asylum laws are the vehicle through which we are able to provide that critical safety net. Those who orchestrate fraud under the asylum laws . . . make it more difficult for genuine victims, and we will come down hard on them.” As the investigation revealed, many of the aliens seeking asylum were complicit in the fraudulent schemes and fully participated in efforts that ultimately led to their improper grant of asylum by immigration judges. Like the indicted attorneys and preparers, the fraudulent conduct of these aliens also harmed legitimate asylum applicants and, consequently, they should be held accountable for their illicit acts. Those who obtained asylum through fraud should have their asylum status revoked and should be removed from the United States in accordance with law because they have unlawfully derived the benefits and privileges of asylum status that rightfully belong to those who have legitimately suffered persecution. Those granted asylum are conferred benefits and privileges that are unavailable to many other aliens. In addition to federal and state welfare benefits and work authorization, they can become lawful permanent residents after one year. Thereafter, they are eligible to become U.S. citizens through naturalization. Once they attain U.S. citizenship, they are eligible to file petitions to obtain immigration benefits for their family members. Thus, tens of thousands of aliens could potentially derive their status and U.S. citizenship through this pervasive fraud. Immigration fraud is not a trivial matter that can be given lip service by this Administration. Neither can it turn a blind eye to fraud and call it a “low priority.” Aside from eroding confidence in our national resolve to protect the persecuted around the world, asylum fraud promotes criminal enterprises and threatens our national security. The 9/11 Commission found that “[a] number of terrorists discussed [in its report] abused the asylum system.” There should be little doubt that terrorist organizations are probing the contours of our flawed asylum system to exploit its vulnerabilities. DOJ’s refusal to take action in these cases is simply outrageous. What message is being sent to those aliens who already have an incentive to lie to obtain an immigration benefit and now are emboldened even more by DOJ’s apparent acquiescence to this type of egregious criminal conduct? Americans cannot have confidence in a system that rewards deceit and perjury at the expense of truth and justice. Therefore, I call on you to take immediate action to review and reopen each of the 3,709 cases referenced in the GAO report and any others known to EOIR, in which an immigration judge granted asylum, to determine if fraud is present and to pursue revocation of asylum in those cases where fraud is established. As your appointees, immigration judges act as your delegates in cases that come before them. Thus, you have the authority – and duty – to instruct them to reopen and review these cases to determine if the grants of asylum were the result of fraud. Please respond by August 31, 2016, and state what specific actions you have taken or will be taking regarding these cases and any others currently or previously pending before EOIR in which fraud is suspected or found. If you have any questions concerning this request, please contact Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
08.15.2016	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) sent a letter to U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia Channing Phillips identifying several examples where Secretary Hillary Clinton's sworn testimony before Congress is incompatible with evidence collected during the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s (FBI) investigation into the Secretary's private email server. The letter is in response to a Department of Justice letter sent to Chairmen Goodlatte and Chaffetz last week saying the department will “take appropriate action as necessary” on the Chairmen’s request for an investigation into the matter. The letter states: “The evidence collected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) during its investigation of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email system during her time as Secretary of State appears to directly contradict several aspects of her sworn testimony, which are described in greater detail below. “During a House Select Committee on Benghazi hearing on October 22, 2015, Secretary Clinton testified with respect to (1) whether she sent or received emails that were marked classified at the time; (2) whether her attorneys reviewed each of the emails on her personal email system; (3) whether there was one, or more servers that stored work-related emails during her time as Secretary of State; and (4) whether she provided all her work-related emails to the Department of State. “Although there may be other aspects of Secretary Clinton’s sworn testimony that are at odds with the FBI’s findings, her testimony in those four areas bears specific scrutiny in light of the facts and evidence FBI Director James Comey described in his public statement on July 5, 2016 and in testimony before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 7, 2016.” Full text of the letter can be viewed here, or below: August 15, 2016 Dear Mr. Phillips: On August 2, 2016, Assistant Attorney General Peter Kadzik confirmed that you received the Committees’ request for an investigation regarding certain statements made by former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton during her testimony before Congress and will “take appropriate action as necessary.”[1] To assist the investigation, this letter identifies several pieces of Secretary Clinton’s testimony that appear to implicate 18 U.S.C. §§1621 and 1001 the criminal statutes that prohibit perjury and false statements, respectively. The evidence collected by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) during its investigation of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email system during her time as Secretary of State appears to directly contradict several aspects of her sworn testimony, which are described in greater detail below. During a House Select Committee on Benghazi hearing on October 22, 2015, Secretary Clinton testified with respect to (1) whether she sent or received emails that were marked classified at the time; (2) whether her attorneys reviewed each of the emails on her personal email system; (3) whether there was one, or more servers that stored work-related emails during her time as Secretary of State; and (4) whether she provided all her work-related emails to the Department of State. Although there may be other aspects of Secretary Clinton’s sworn testimony that are at odds with the FBI’s findings, her testimony in those four areas bears specific scrutiny in light of the facts and evidence FBI Director James Comey described in his public statement on July 5, 2016 and in testimony before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 7, 2016. (1) Contrary to her sworn testimony, Secretary Clinton sent and received emails that were marked classified at the time. With respect to whether she sent or received emails that were marked classified at the time, Secretary Clinton testified under oath to the Select Committee that she did not. Specifically, during questioning by Rep. Jim Jordan, Secretary Clinton stated “there was nothing marked classified on my emails, either sent or received.”[2] Secretary Clinton further testified: [M]any Americans have no idea how the classification process works. And therefore I wanted to make it clear that there is a system within our government, certainly within the State Department . . . where material that is thought to be classified is marked such, so that people have the opportunity to know how they are supposed to be handling those materials . . . and that’s why it became clearer, I believe, to say that nothing was marked classified at the time I sent or received it.[3] The FBI, however, found several of Secretary Clinton’s emails did in fact contain markings that identified classified information therein. In Director Comey’s public statement on July 5, 2016, he said, “a very small number of the emails containing classified information bore the markings indicating the presence of classified information.”[4] When Director Comey testified on July 7, 2016, he specifically addressed this issue. Rep. Trey Gowdy asked, “Secretary Clinton said there was nothing marked classified either sent or received. Was it true?”[5] He said it was not.[6] Director Comey also stated, “There was classified material emailed.”[7] Specifically, he stated that three documents on Secretary Clinton’s private server contained classified information clearly marked “Confidential.”[8] He further testified, “In the one involving ‘top secret’ information, Secretary Clinton not only received but also sent emails that talked about the same subject.”[9] (2) Contrary to her sworn testimony, Secretary Clinton’s lawyers did not read each email in her personal account to identify all the work-related messages. With respect to whether her attorneys reviewed each of the emails on her personal email system, Secretary Clinton testified that her attorneys used search terms and reviewed every single email to identify any that were work-related and should therefore be returned to the Department of State.[10] She stated: Rep. Jordan: But I'm asking how -- I'm asking how it was done. Was -- did someone physically look at the 62,000 e-mails, or did you use search terms, date parameters? I want to know the specifics. Mrs. Clinton: They did all of that, and I did not look over their shoulders, because I thought it would be appropriate for them to conduct that search, and they did. Rep. Jordan: Will you provide this committee -- or can you answer today, what were the search terms? Mrs. Clinton: The search terms were everything you could imagine that might be related to anything, but they also went through every single e-mail.[11] The FBI found, however, that Secretary Clinton’s lawyers did not in fact read all of her emails—they relied exclusively on a set of search terms to identify work-related messages. On July 5, 2016, Director Comey testified: The lawyers doing the sorting for Secretary Clinton in 2014 did not individually read the content of all of her e-mails, as we did for those available to us; instead, they relied on header information and used search terms to try to find all work-related e-mails among the reportedly more than 60,000 total e-mails remaining on Secretary Clinton’s personal system in 2014. It is highly likely their search terms missed some work-related e-mails, and that we later found them, for example, in the mailboxes of other officials or in the slack space of a server. It is also likely that there are other work-related e-mails that they did not produce to State and that we did not find elsewhere, and that are now gone because they deleted all e-mails they did not return to State, and the lawyers cleaned their devices in such a way as to preclude complete forensic recovery.[12] (3) Contrary to her sworn testimony, Secretary Clinton used several different servers and numerous devices to send and receive work-related emails. With respect to whether there was one, or more servers that stored work-related emails during her time as Secretary of State, Secretary Clinton testified there was only one server.[13] She stated: Rep. Jordan: In March, you also said this: your server was physically located on your property, which is protected by the Secret Service. I'm having a hard time figuring this out, because this story's been all over the place. But -- there was one server on your property in New York, and a second server hosted by a Colorado company in -- housed in New Jersey. Is that right? There were two servers? Mrs. Clinton: No. Rep. Jordan: OK. Mrs. Clinton: There was a -- there was a server... Rep. Jordan: Just one? Mrs. Clinton: . . . that was already being used by my husband's team. An existing system in our home that I used, and then later, again, my husband's office decided that they wanted to change their arrangements, and that's when they contracted with the company in Colorado. Rep. Jordan: And so there's only one server? Is that what you're telling me? And it's the one server that the FBI has? Mrs. Clinton: The FBI has the server that was used during the tenure of my State Department service.[14] The FBI, however, found Secretary Clinton stored work-related emails on several servers. In Director Comey’s public statement, he said, “Secretary Clinton used several different servers and administrators of those servers during her four years at the State Department, and used numerous mobile devices to view and send e-mail on that personal domain.”[15] In Director Comey’s testimony on July 7, 2016, he stated that Secretary Clinton used several devices to send and receive work-related emails during her tenure as Secretary of State. He testified, “She used multiple devices during her four years as secretary of state.”[16] (4) Contrary to her sworn testimony, Secretary Clinton did not provide all of her work-related email to the Department of Justice. Finally, with respect to whether she provided all her work-related emails to the Department of State, Secretary Clinton testified to the Select Committee that she had.[17] She stated: Mrs. Clinton: Well, Congressman, I have said repeatedly that I take responsibility for my use of personal e-mail. I've said it was a mistake. I've said that it was allowed, but it was not a good choice. When I got to the department, we were faced with a global financial crisis, major troop decisions on Afghanistan, the imperative to rebuild our alliances in Europe and Asia, an ongoing war in Iraq, and so much else. E-mail was not my primary means of communication, as I have said earlier. I did not have a computer on my desk. I've described how I did work: in meetings, secure and unsecured phone calls, reviewing many, many pages of materials every day, attending . . . Rep. Jordan: I -- I -- I appreciate (inaudible). Mrs. Clinton: . . . a great deal of meetings, and I provided the department, which has been providing you, with all of my work-related e-mails, all that I had. Approximately 55,000 pages. And they are being publicly released.[18] The FBI found, however, “several thousand work-related e-mails that were not in the group of 30,000 that were returned by Secretary Clinton to State in 2014.”[19] In the course of its investigation, the FBI recovered “still others . . . from the laborious review of the millions of e-mail fragments dumped into the slack space of the server decommissioned in 2013.”[20] When Director Comey appeared before the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 7, 2016, he confirmed that Secretary Clinton did not turn over all work-related emails to the FBI. He stated, “We found work-related emails, thousands, that were not returned.”[21] The four pieces of sworn testimony by Secretary Clinton described herein are incompatible with the FBI’s findings. We hope this information is helpful to your office’s consideration of our referral. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Please contact us with any questions. Sincerely, Jason Chaffetz Chairman Committee on Oversight and Government Reform Bob Goodlatte Chairman Committee on the Judiciary ###
07.29.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) will host a Sixth District Women’s Conference in Lynchburg on Saturday, August 13. Attendees will hear from leaders in economic development, government, business, education, and other fields. Fox News’ Shannon Bream, a Liberty University alumna, will be the keynote speaker. This event is free and open to the public. Goodlatte: “During my travels around the Sixth District, I have had the distinct opportunity to meet many inspiring women. Whether they are a CEO, a teacher, an elected official, a doctor, a stay-at-home mom, a soldier, or a coach, without their contributions, our economy and communities in the Sixth District and throughout the nation would not thrive. I am excited to host this event in Lynchburg and provide a positive opportunity for women in the Sixth District to engage with others and access valuable resources. It is an honor to welcome Shannon Bream back to Lynchburg as the keynote speaker! Her experiences in law and broadcast journalism will make for an interesting addition to this year’s event. I look forward to hearing from all of our great speakers, and I encourage folks to let others know about this event.” DETAILS: Saturday, August 13, 2016 Resource Fair: 9:00am Program: 9:30am – 12:30pm LOCATION: The Kirkley Hotel and Conference Center 2900 Candlers Mountain Road Lynchburg, Virginia REGISTRATION: Those interested in attending can register in advance online or by calling Congressman Goodlatte’s Lynchburg Office at 434-845-8306. Additionally, attendees can register in person upon arrival at the event. For more information, visit Goodlatte.House.Gov or call Congressman Goodlatte’s Lynchburg Office at 434-845-8306.
07.26.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued a statement criticizing the Obama Administration for expanding its policy that allows certain aliens, including those who have received executive amnesty, to bring their relatives who currently reside in Honduras, Guatemala, or El Salvador to the United States. Goodlatte: “Once again, the Obama Administration has decided to blow wide open any small discretion it has in order to reward individuals who have no lawful presence in the United States with the ability to bring their family members here. Today’s expansion of the Obama Administration’s policy is simply a continuation of the government-sanctioned border surge. Tens of thousands of unlawful immigrants continue to arrive at the Southwest border to benefit from the President’s lax immigration enforcement, and now many more can simply use this government-run program to come here. By allowing unlawful immigrants to benefit from this program, the Obama Administration undermines the integrity of our immigration system and the rule of law, and makes the system unfair for those who seek to come to the United States legally. Rather than take the steps necessary to end the ongoing crisis at the border, the Obama Administration perpetuates it by abusing a legal tool meant to be used sparingly to bring people to the United States and instead applying it to the masses in Central America.” The State Department and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) today announced an expansion of a program that allows certain aliens – lawful permanent residents and those with temporary protected status, parole, withholding of removal, deferred action, and deferred enforced departure – to petition for relatives in Honduras, Guatemala, or El Salvador to come to the United States. The program currently allows these aliens to petition for their unmarried children under the age of 21 and their current spouse (if they live with the child) to be considered for in-country refugee processing. The program is now expanded to their children over the age of 21; their parents; and caregivers of their minor children who are related to them, such as grandparents, aunts and uncles. If these relatives do not meet the refugee requirements under the law, they can then be considered for parole into the United States, a tool that is, even according to the Administration itself, meant to be used sparingly on a case-by-case basis.
07.15.2016	The bipartisan working group on policing strategies – announced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) – met to discuss the issues of the use of excessive force by police, aggression towards law enforcement, and public safety concerns related to these issues. Also attending the working group meeting were Reverend Doctor DeForest B. Soaries, Jr., the Senior Pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, New Jersey, and Deborah A. Ramirez, the Executive Director for Partnering for Prevention and Community Safety Initiative and Professor of Law at Northeastern University School of Law. Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers released the following statement after the meeting: “The first meeting of the bipartisan working group on policing strategies was a productive start to the important national conversation on what can be done to improve the relationship between police officers and their local communities, end excessive use of force, strengthen police accountability, and prevent attacks on law enforcement. “Members agreed to use the coming weeks to engage with their constituents, including law enforcement, religious and other community leaders, area youth, as well as mothers and fathers who have lost children to violent crime, on these issues and reiterated their commitment to finding ways to rebuild the trust between local law enforcement and the citizens they are sworn to protect and serve. We expect the task force will be holding future meetings in the coming weeks and months as well.” Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers are leading the working group. Members of the working group are: Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Will Hurd (R-Texas), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), and Robin Kelly (D-Ill.).
07.13.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) today announced the establishment of a working group to examine police accountability, aggression towards law enforcement, and public safety concerns related to these issues. The bipartisan working group will hold a series of roundtables, starting with a private roundtable in Washington, D.C., to candidly discuss the issues fueling excessive force used by law enforcement and attacks against police officers and will invite outside leaders on this issue to meet with the working group. Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers issued the statement below on the formation of this working group: “Our nation’s conscience has been rocked by a series of tragic events that has resulted in the loss of too many lives. Most recently, five Dallas police officers were murdered in cold blood last week, and two men were fatally shot by law enforcement in Baton Rouge and St. Paul. We mourn the loss of all of these lives and want to see an end to this violence. “It’s clear that more must be done to end excessive use of force, strengthen police accountability, prevent violent attacks on law enforcement and improve the relationship between police officers and the communities they are sworn to protect and serve. These issues are not going to be solved overnight and they won’t be solved by Congress alone. Our goal in creating this working group is to discuss these issues candidly with each another so that we can begin to find common ground on these matters of national importance.” Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers will lead the working group. Members of the working group are: Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Susan Brooks (R-Ind.), Will Hurd (R-Texas), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), Keith Ellison (D-Minn.), and Robin Kelly (D-Ill.). The first private roundtable will be held on Thursday, July 14, 2016. The working group has invited Reverend Doctor DeForest B. Soaries, Jr., the Senior Pastor of the First Baptist Church of Lincoln Gardens in Somerset, New Jersey, and Deborah A. Ramirez, the Executive Director for Partnering for Prevention and Community Safety Initiative and Professor of Law at Northeastern University School of Law, to participate.
07.13.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the House of Representatives agreed yesterday evening, by unanimous consent, to pass the Protecting Our Lives by Initiating COPS Expansion (POLICE) Act of 2016 (S. 2840). This bipartisan bill allows law enforcement and medical personnel across the country to use federal grant funds to train and better prepare for active shooter situations, including training civilians how to respond if confronted by an active shooter. The Senate approved this bill on May 18, 2016, and following the House vote it now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Chairman Goodlatte: “Every day, law enforcement officers put their lives on the line to keep our nation and citizens safe. The murder of five police officers in Dallas reminds us just how much law enforcement officers sacrifice for their communities—many have made the ultimate sacrifice. We as a country have much work to do to end violence, but we must ensure that the brave men and women who serve us have the tools needed to do their jobs and keep the public safe. The POLICE Act provides law enforcement and first responders access to training to better prepare for active shooter situations. I am pleased the House swiftly passed this bipartisan bill, and I urge the President to sign it into law immediately.” Howard B. Hall, Chief of Police, Roanoke County: “Unfortunately, the number of tragic incidents occurring across our country has made training in the appropriate response to an active shooter essential to all law enforcement personnel. Access to additional funding will be helpful to ensure that this training is widely available. The provision to fund training for fire/EMS personnel and citizens is particularly important as both are critical partners in minimizing the loss of life when these unfortunate events occur.” Raul M. Diaz, Chief of Police, City of Lynchburg: "Active Shooter training is a multifaceted concept that affects Law Enforcement throughout the country. The ability to have funding to increase the amount of Active Shooter training that officers receive will increase our ability to save lives. Our agency, like others throughout the country, does our very best to provide as much Active Shooter training as we can, but time and ultimately funding is always an issue. The concepts in Active Shooter response have become more dynamic over the years. The initial training was on four-officer entries, but has gone further to incorporate three-officer and two-officer entries. These measures have been adapted so officers can quickly enter a structure during an Active Shooter event and stop the deadly behavior, which saves more lives. Additionally, providing training to our citizens in the concepts of Run, Hide, Fight will give those involved in an Active Shooter event the greatest chance of survival. It would allow us to assist businesses with developing Active Shooter response plans and conduct scenario exercises with them. This additional funding would allow Law Enforcement to work closely with our citizens to achieve the goal of saving lives when an Active Shooter event occurs. Bottom line, this is going to help us save lives!"
07.13.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on passage today of S. 304, the Conscience Protection Act, by a vote of 245-182 in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I am pro-life and strongly opposed to abortion. However, whether you are opposed to abortion or not, we should at a minimum be able to agree that the government cannot force health care providers to violate their own beliefs by performing an abortion. This is a matter that should transcend party affiliation. The Conscience Protection Act protects the rights of health care providers and prevents penalization or discrimination against those providers that do not participate in abortions because they believe they are morally wrong. Forcing a health care provider to take an innocent life is just plain wrong. I strongly support protecting the religious liberties at the root of this country, and urge the Senate to take up this important legislation. ”
07.13.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) amendment to the FY 2017 Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act by a bipartisan vote of 231-197. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on final passage of this legislation on Thursday. Goodlatte’s amendment would prohibit the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from using funds to take retaliatory or “backstop” actions against the six states located in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed if they do not meet the goals of the Chesapeake Bay Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL) mandated by the EPA. Goodlatte spoke on the House floor in support of his amendment. Click here to watch. Floor statement of Congressman Bob Goodlatte on Amendment #57 (as prepared): Mr. Chairman, today I rise to urge support for my amendment, which would reaffirm and preserve the rights of the states to write their own water quality plans. My amendment simply prohibits the EPA from using its Chesapeake Bay Total Maximum Daily Load and the so-called “Watershed Implementation Plans” to hijack states’ water quality strategies. Over the last several years, the EPA has implemented a “Total Maximum Daily Load” (TMDL) blueprint for the six states in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed, which strictly limits the amount of nutrients that can enter the Chesapeake Bay. Through its implementation, the EPA has basically given every state in the watershed an ultimatum – either the state does exactly what the EPA says, or it faces the threat of an EPA takeover of its water quality programs. Congress intended that the implementation of the Clean Water Act be a collaborative approach, through which the states and the federal government work together. This process was not meant to be subject to the whims of politicians and bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. Therefore, my amendment instructs the EPA to respect the important role states play in implementing the Clean Water Act. I want to make it perfectly clear that my amendment would not stop the EPA from working with the states to restore the Chesapeake Bay, nor would it undermine the cleanup efforts already underway. My language only removes the ability of the EPA to take over a state’s plan, or to take retaliatory actions against a state, if it does not meet EPA mandated goals – again, it ensures states’ rights remain intact and not usurped by the EPA. It is important to point out the correlation between the EPA’s outrageous “Waters of the United States” rule and the Bay TMDL. At the heart of both issues is the EPA’s desire to control conservation and water quality improvement efforts throughout the country and to punish all those who dare oppose them. Mr. Chairman, the Bay is a national treasure, and I want to see it restored. But we know that in order to achieve this goal, the states and the EPA must work together. The EPA cannot be allowed to railroad the states and micromanage the process. With this amendment we are simply telling the EPA to respect the important role states play in implementing the Clean Water Act, and preventing another federal power grab by the Administration.
07.12.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today issued the following statement on Attorney General Loretta Lynch’s refusal to answer basic legal questions about the investigation of Secretary Hillary Clinton’s mishandling of classified information on private email servers: “It’s clear that, a little over an hour into today’s hearing, Attorney General Lynch has no intention of answering any of our questions regarding the Department’s decision not to charge former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, even the most basic questions about the legal elements the government is obligated to prove in a criminal prosecution. Instead of providing the Judiciary Committee with the candor provided to Congress last Thursday by FBI Director Comey, Attorney General Lynch instead is dodging any responsibility to be forthright to Congress by referring members to the statements of her subordinate. If Attorney General Lynch doesn’t want to answer questions about the investigation, then she should have appointed a special prosecutor at the start of the investigation. Instead, she never even sought to recuse herself, despite the fact that Secretary Clinton is the wife of her former boss, President Bill Clinton. It’s equally troubling that she met privately with former President Clinton just days before FBI Director Comey announced that he does not recommend criminal charges be filed against Secretary Clinton. The American people deserve transparency about this investigation.”
07.12.2016	Statement of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte Full Committee Hearing on Oversight of the U.S. Department of Justice Click here to watch. Chairman Goodlatte: Welcome, Attorney General Lynch, to your second appearance before the House Judiciary Committee. The flags over the Capitol are flying at half-mast in recognition of the five Dallas police officers murdered in cold blood last week. This was not an arrest gone wrong. The person who carried out this appalling act of terror and hate stalked and murdered five police officers, and injured seven others and two civilians, ostensibly in retaliation for recent police shootings, including the tragic and fatal shootings in Minnesota and Louisiana last week. We all mourn those tragedies. The divisiveness between our police and our communities must end. I ask that we observe a moment of silence for all those who have lost their lives in these tragedies. We must not give in to hate and let emotion replace reason. We must bridge the divide that separates us and embrace one another as Americans. And we must have faith that the institutions that have sustained our Republic for the last 240 years will deliver fair, impartial justice to victims of crime, and punish the guilty. I look forward to your thoughts on this important matter. The American people also expect government officials to abide by the law just like everyone else; and to be reprimanded when they break the law. That is not the case for former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. Last week, FBI Director James Comey announced that he would not recommend criminal charges against Secretary Clinton for her use of a private email server while at the State Department and the mishandling of classified information. The timing of and circumstances surrounding this announcement are particularly troubling. On Monday, June 27, Attorney General Lynch, you met privately with former President Bill Clinton aboard your plane on the tarmac of the Phoenix airport, despite the fact that his wife was the target of an ongoing criminal investigation. This encounter is even more troubling if the FBI is also investigating improper donations to the Clinton Foundation, which was founded by former President Clinton, a member of the foundation’s board of directors. Five days later, the FBI held its first and only interview with Secretary Clinton after a year-long investigation. Three days later, and on the first day back from a holiday weekend, Director Comey publicly announced that he was not recommending charges against Secretary Clinton. And, a mere 24 hours later, Attorney General Lynch, you issued a press release announcing that no charges would be brought against Secretary Clinton. While Director Comey may have refused to criminally indict Hillary Clinton, his public pronouncement and subsequent congressional testimony is nonetheless a public indictment of her conduct and character. Though Director Comey declined to recommend charges, he laid out sufficient facts to warrant a referral to the Justice Department. That forces one to confront the question of whether someone who was not in Secretary Clinton’s position would have fared as well with the FBI as she did. Secretary Clinton stated repeatedly that no classified information was contained within her private email system. This is not true. The FBI found 110 e-mails in 52 e-mail chains containing classified information at the time they were sent or received. Secretary Clinton stated repeatedly that no information in her emails was marked classified. This is not true. The FBI found that some of these emails were marked classified. Secretary Clinton said all relevant emails were returned to the State Department. This is not true. The FBI found thousands of work-related emails that were not returned. But all of this evidence, according to Director Comey, amounted only to “extreme carelessness” by Secretary Clinton and her staff. And although the Director admitted that “there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information,” he went so far as to publicly declare that “no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case.” This defies logic and the law. Contrary to Director Comey’s assertions, the law does not require evidence that a person intended to harm the United States in order to be criminally liable for the mishandling of classified information. To be sure, Congress has set forth a variety of statutes on this subject, with different intent requirements and penalties. Were a rank-and-file federal employee to do what Secretary Clinton did, they would face severe punishment, including termination, revocation of security clearances, or criminal prosecution. Even Director Comey acknowledged this fact at a recent congressional hearing. But Secretary Clinton is not facing prosecution for her actions. This has now become an issue for Congress in that it appears Secretary Clinton testified falsely when appearing under oath before the Select Committee on Benghazi. Yesterday, I and Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Chaffetz asked the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia to investigate Secretary Clinton’s testimony before Congress. Secretary Clinton’s “extreme carelessness” possibly jeopardized the safety and security of our citizens and nation. Her “extreme carelessness” suggests she cannot be trusted with the nation’s most sensitive secrets if she is nevertheless elected president. Frankly, the FBI’s conclusion leaves many more questions than answers. We hope, Madam Attorney General, to get answers to these questions today.
07.12.2016	WATCH: Restoring a Proper System of Checks and Balances in Washington Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), and House Judiciary Committee member and bill sponsor John Ratcliffe (R-Texas) praised today’s passage of the Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) of 2016 (H.R. 4768) by the House of Representatives by a vote of 240-171. “When the Framers created three equal branches of government, they did so in order to prevent one from taking power from the others. Today, that system is failing the American people. The executive branch has quietly accumulated powers from the other branches, effectively empowering an entirely new branch of government—the administrative state. “House Republicans recognize we must return to a better way -- taking power away from the unelected bureaucrats in Washington, who are churning out thousands of regulations that have to be covered by the paychecks of hardworking Americans. The “Separation of Powers Restoration Act” is a crucial part of that effort. It gives power back to the courts—rather than the bureaucrats—to be the ultimate deciders of the meaning of laws passed by the people’s elected representatives -- exactly what is required to rein in the runaway administrative state. “A restoration of our system of checks and balances as intended by the Framers is key to securing liberty, strengthening our economy and ensuring the government is held accountable for all Americans.” Background: Since the Supreme Court’s ruling in Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, 467 U.S. 837 (1984), federal courts have routinely deferred to federal regulatory agencies’ interpretations of the statutes passed by Congress. This has emboldened federal bureaucrats to overreach when they issue regulations and exceed the limits Congress intended to place in the law. SOPRA would restore the proper separation of powers by requiring federal courts to once again carefully scrutinize agencies’ interpretations and decisions regarding the statutes passed by Congress. This renewed judicial oversight will put regulatory agencies on notice that bureaucrats will no longer receive a judicial rubber stamp on their overreaches.
07.11.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Representative Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) today led a letter signed by over 200 House Republicans – including all Republican members of the House Judiciary Committee – demanding answers from FBI Director James Comey regarding the many questions surrounding his announcement that he does not recommend federal prosecution against former Secretary Hillary Clinton for mishandling classified information through private email servers. Last week, Director Comey noted that there was no precedent to charge Secretary Clinton for her actions. Chairman Goodlatte and the other signatories note in a letter to Director Comey that there is precedent for prosecution, citing a case where a Marine was found guilty of “gross negligence” in his mishandling of classified material. Further, the members of Congress call on Director Comey to answer a number of questions hovering over the FBI’s mystifying conclusion regarding its investigation and how his definition of Secretary Clinton’s actions, “extreme carelessness,” is not synonymous with “gross negligence.” The members also seek to know whether those who engage in similar conduct to Secretary Clinton and apply for employment with the U.S. government would be granted a security clearance. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. July 11, 2016 Honorable James B. Comey Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Comey: We write with regard to the FBI’s decision to not recommend Secretary Clinton’s case for prosecution for failure to safeguard classified national security information. Secretary Clinton clearly placed our nation’s secrets in peril and your decision to not refer the case for prosecution has created a cloud over our nation’s justice system. No one is above the law and the American people deserve a more robust explanation for your decision to not recommend criminal charges against the former Secretary. You stated Tuesday at your press conference, “In looking back at our investigations into mishandling or removal of classified information, we cannot find a case that would support bringing criminal charges on these facts.” It did not take long, however, for us to perform a simple legal search to find a case where a Marine was found guilty and sentenced to confinement, forfeiture of pay for three years, and a reduction to the lowest enlisted grade, for failing to report that he mistakenly took classified documents from his workplace after he cleaned out his desk. While this particular Marine, out of fear, failed to disclose that he had thrown these documents into his gym bag, even though the court found that he was planning on destroying them once he arrived at his new duty station, his conviction under 18 U.S.C. § 793(f) for “gross negligence” was upheld by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. The court’s reasoning is illustrative: The purpose of the federal espionage statute is to protect classified documents from any unauthorized procedures such as “remov[al] from its proper place of custody” regardless of the means of removal, and it was appellant's gross negligence that was the proximate cause of the classified document’s removal. We stated in United States v. McGuinness that “it is clear that Congress intended to create a hierarchy of offenses against national security, ranging from ‘classic spying’ to merely losing classified materials through gross negligence.” The military court’s reasoning went directly to the point on the Marine’s culpability – “gross negligence that was the proximate cause of the classified document’s removal.” The Espionage Act was passed by Congress with the understanding that various standards of culpability can be attributed to one who has failed to protect national security secrets. Even though the Marine in the foregoing case did not intend to harm national security, the retention of classified documents in an unsecure manner was sufficient to establish “gross negligence.” Following your press conference, former Attorney General Michael Mukasey said, “I was particularly distressed to hear that he [Director Comey] said there was no intention to violate the law when the laws involved don’t require an intention to violate the law.” You seem to have picked a new standard out of thin air – “extreme carelessness” – to describe the actions of Secretary Clinton and her staff. We do not understand the need to have cited any lack of intent on the part of Secretary Clinton when the law sets forth a felony violation for something less than intentional conduct – “gross negligence.” On Tuesday, the FBI assumed the role of prosecutor and not simply investigator and took the unprecedented act of proclaiming that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case. Based on the perception that a decision has been made by the FBI that has seemingly ignored facts that the FBI itself found in its own investigation, we have additional questions that are aimed at ensuring that the cloud which now hovers over our justice system is at least minimally pierced: 1) As a former prosecutor, please explain your understanding of the legal difference between actions performed with “gross negligence” and those done “extremely carelessly.” How did you determine that “extreme carelessness” did not equate to “gross negligence?” 2) You said that no reasonable prosecutor would decide to prosecute the Clinton case on the evidence found by FBI agents during the Bureau’s investigation over the past year. We have multiple former prosecutors in Congress, and it is not far-fetched for many of us to envision a successful prosecution of someone for doing far less than that which was committed by Secretary Clinton. Is your statement not an indictment and prejudgment against any Assistant United States Attorney who is now tasked with reviewing the evidence you presented Tuesday? In your judgment, does it not follow that you would think that a prosecutor who moved forward with the instant prosecution of Secretary Clinton would be “unreasonable?” 3) Are you aware of any internal opinions by FBI agents or management who were intimately aware of the Clinton investigation which differed from your eventual decision to not recommend the case for prosecution? 4) You mentioned that Top Secret Special Access Programs (SAPs) were included in emails sent and received by Secretary Clinton. SAP material is some of the most highly classified and controlled material of the U.S. Government. If an agency of the U.S. Government were to encounter similar information from a foreign adversary, it would be extremely valuable data for us to exploit. Did the FBI assess how SAP information, due to its controlled nature, ever made it onto unclassified systems that were not air-gapped or physically blocked from outside Internet access? Is it not “gross negligence” to permit such SAP data to leave the confines of the most protective and secure governmental enclaves? Or even “intentional” conduct that allowed that to happen? 5) You mentioned that this investigation stemmed from a referral from the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community to determine whether classified information had been transmitted on an unclassified personal system. Following your investigation, it is clear that Secretary Clinton transmitted classified information on an unclassified system. Secretary Clinton on multiple occasions has said that she did not send or receive classified information or information marked as classified. In light of your decision to also not refer a false statements charge under 18 U.S.C. § 1001 for prosecution, we can only presume that Secretary Clinton admitted during her interview with your agents that she, in fact, sent and received emails containing classified information. Please confirm. 6) Are you aware of whether any deleted emails which the FBI was able to forensically recover from Secretary Clinton’s servers pertained to the Clinton Foundation? 7) You stated Tuesday, “Given that combination of factors, we assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to Secretary Clinton’s personal e-mail account.” Is the FBI’s Counterintelligence Division still involved in determining the level of damage related to possible exploitation of Secretary Clinton’s or her associates’ email accounts and other communications? 8) If the FBI performed a background check on an applicant for employment with the FBI or elsewhere in the U.S. Government, and that applicant engaged in conduct committed by Secretary Clinton, would a security clearance ever be granted to that person? We look forward to your prompt response.
07.11.2016	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives approved by voice vote Congressman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) resolution, H. Con. Res. 138, to congressionally designate the George C. Marshall Museum and the George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Va., as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library. H. Con. Res. 138 is co-sponsored by the entire Virginia delegation in the House of Representatives: Reps. Rob Wittman, Scott Rigell, Bobby Scott, J. Randy Forbes, Robert Hurt, Dave Brat, Don Beyer, H. Morgan Griffith, Barbara Comstock, and Gerry Connolly. H. Con. Res. 138 now awaits consideration in the Senate. Floor statement of Congressman Bob Goodlatte on H. Con. Res. 138 (as prepared): Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge passage of H. Con. Res. 138. This resolution would designate the George C. Marshall Museum and the George C. Marshall Research Library in Lexington, Virginia, as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library. General George Catlett Marshall dedicated his life to public service – serving honorably in the United States Army, as Army Chief of Staff during World War II, Special Ambassador to China, Secretary of State, and Secretary of Defense. From his Allied plan to storm the beaches of Normandy to his European economic recovery strategy known as the Marshall Plan, his leadership changed the world. The history of the United States and the global community would be a different place if not for the contributions of General Marshall. At the recommendation of former President Harry Truman, the Marshall Foundation was established in 1953. On May 23, 1964, the Marshall Museum and Library was dedicated on the post of the Virginia Military Institute - General Marshall’s alma mater. For over 50 years, the Marshall Foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the important contributions of General Marshall. The Museum has five extensive exhibits and houses General Marshall’s 1953 Nobel Peace Prize. The Research Library collects, preserves, and shares the largest collection of documents pertaining to General Marshall’s life. Just this year, the Marshall Foundation reached a huge milestone with the completion of the Papers of George Catlett Marshall. This project began in 1977 with the goal to create a published record of every document that General Marshall produced. The final project consists of seven volumes and includes 4,260 documents spanning over 5,666 pages. In addition to its extensive research work, the Marshall Foundation provides educational opportunities for college students and future military leaders. The Marshall Undergraduate Scholars program sends college history students to the Marshall Foundation to conduct primary research in the library’s archives. The Marshall Army ROTC Award Seminar also provides the top ROTC cadet at each college in the United States the opportunity to participate in a national security conference with fellow award recipients and current Army leaders. The Marshall-Arnold Air Force ROTC Award Seminar provides a similar opportunity to top senior cadets at each college with an Air Force ROTC program. Last year, the Marshall Foundation began the Marshall Legacy Series. This is a three-year series of exhibits, lectures, and events to showcase General Marshall’s contributions during the 20th century and connects those contributions to today’s world. This is just a snapshot of the important work the Marshall Foundation conducts to honor and preserve the legacy of General Marshall. I am honored to have such an important facility in my district, the Sixth District of Virginia. General Marshall once said, “Sincerity, integrity and tolerance are, to my mind, the first requirements of many to a fine, strong character.” I applaud the Marshall Foundation’s work in sharing Marshall’s vision and character with a new generation of Americans. I urge passage of this resolution to honor one of America’s most sincere and distinguished public servants by congressionally designating the museum and library in Lexington, Virginia as the National George C. Marshall Museum and Library. Click here for the video. Background: H. Con. Res. 138 is an honorary designation, and will result in no cost to American taxpayers. The George C. Marshall Foundation was established in 1953 and officially opened in 1964 on the post of Virginia Military Institute, General Marshall’s alma mater. Since 1964, the Foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the important contributions of General Marshall through its Museum and Research Library. The Museum has five extensive exhibits and houses General Marshall’s 1953 Nobel Peace Prize. The Research Library collects and preserves a large collection of documents pertaining to General Marshall’s life, including domestic and military history of the 20th Century.
07.11.2016	Today, House Judiciary Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) sent a letter to the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia requesting an investigation into whether former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton committed perjury and made false statements when testifying under oath before Congress. The letter states: “The evidence collected by the FBI during its investigation of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email system appears to directly contradict several aspects of her sworn testimony. In light of those contradictions, the Department should investigate and determine whether to prosecute Secretary Clinton for violating statutes that prohibit perjury and false statements to Congress, or any other relevant statutes.” Background: During a July 5, 2016 hearing before the House Oversight Committee, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey stated the truthfulness of Secretary Clinton’s testimony before Congress was not within the scope of the FBI’s investigation. According to Director Comey, the Department of Justice requires a criminal referral from Congress to initiate an investigation into Secretary Clinton’s congressional testimony. Additionally, Chairman Chaffetz sent a letter to Director Comey requesting the FBI’s full investigative file from its review of former Secretary Clinton’s use of an authorized private email server. Chairman Goodlatte sent a letter to Director Comey pressing for more information about the FBI’s investigation and also led a letter signed by over 200 members of Congress demanding answers from FBI Director Comey regarding the many questions surrounding his announcement that he does not recommend federal prosecution against former Secretary Hillary Clinton for mishandling classified information through private email servers. Full text of letter: The Honorable Channing D. Phillips U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia 555 Fourth Street NW Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Mr. Phillips: We write to request an investigation to determine whether former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton committed perjury and made false statements during her testimony under oath before congressional committees. While testifying before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform on July 7, 2016, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director James Comey stated the truthfulness of Secretary Clinton’s testimony before Congress was not within the scope of the FBI’s investigation. Nor had the FBI even considered any of Secretary Clinton’s testimony. Director Comey further testified the Department of Justice requires a criminal referral from Congress to initiate an investigation of Secretary Clinton’s congressional testimony. We are writing for that purpose. The evidence collected by the FBI during its investigation of Secretary Clinton’s use of a personal email system appears to directly contradict several aspects of her sworn testimony. In light of those contradictions, the Department should investigate and determine whether to prosecute Secretary Clinton for violating statutes that prohibit perjury and false statements to Congress, or any other relevant statutes. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
07.08.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the statement below after the House of Representatives voted to approve the conference report for the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act (S. 524): “Over the past several weeks, conferees and staff have worked diligently to produce a comprehensive response to the opioid epidemic plaguing our nation. No community is immune from this epidemic and all too often we hear of people losing their lives to these drugs. The conference report strengthens the enforcement of our nation’s drug laws, provides tools to combat addiction, offers appropriate treatment and care to addicts so that they can begin to reclaim and rebuild their lives, and leverages existing programs to accomplish these goals, which is a responsible use of precious taxpayer dollars. I applaud today’s strong vote by the House of Representatives and urge the Senate to take the conference report up swiftly so that it is sent to the President’s desk.” Congressman Goodlatte served as a member of the Conference Committee. The conference report for S. 524, the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, contains the following House Judiciary Committee bills: The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act (H.R. 5046): This bipartisan bill, authored by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), combats the opioid epidemic by establishing a streamlined, comprehensive opioid abuse grant program that encompasses a variety of new and existing programs, such as vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement, criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids, drug and other alternative treatment courts, and residential substance abuse treatment. The bill authorizes $103 million annually for the grant program and is fully offset in accordance with the House cut-go protocol. The Opioid Program Evaluation (OPEN) Act (H.R. 5052): This bipartisan legislation, sponsored by House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) and Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.), increases the transparency and accountability of the comprehensive opioid abuse grant program created in H.R. 5046. Specifically, it requires grantees to report on the use of grant funds and requires a publicly available analysis of whether or not the grants have achieved their intended purposes. The Good Samaritan Assessment Act of 2016 (H.R. 5048): This bill, authored by Representative Frank Guinta (R-N.H.), requires the Government Accountability Office to study state and local Good Samaritan laws that protect caregivers, law enforcement personnel, and first responders who administer opioid overdose reversal drugs or devices from criminal or civil liability, as well as those who contact emergency service providers in response to an overdose. The Kingpin Designation Improvement Act of 2016 (H.R. 4985): This bill, authored by Representatives John Katko (R-N.Y.) and Kathleen Rice (D-N.Y.), protects classified information in court proceedings involving drug kingpins. Under the federal Kingpin Act, the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) is able to designate international drug traffickers as kingpins, and thereby block them from using the U.S. financial system. Designees are able to challenge their listing in federal court. However, unlike a similar statute used by OFAC, the Kingpin Act does not contain a provision to protect classified information when such information is used as the basis for a designation. This means that the U.S. government risks having classified information being publicly disclosed. H.R. 4985 addresses this issue by making clear that OFAC can submit classified information to defend its designations in federal district court without it being publicly disclosed.
07.08.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the attack on Dallas police officers, which killed five and injured seven police officers: “Too many people have lost their lives this week due to senseless acts of violence. “Last night’s attack on Dallas police officers, leaving seven injured and five dead, is an attack on all of us. I mourn the loss of these brave officers’ lives, pray for the injured, and stand united with the law enforcement community. Every day, these brave men and women protect our neighborhoods from criminals, fight crime, ensure justice, and keep the peace. They patrol neighborhoods late at night and early in the morning while we sleep in the comforts of our homes. They run to danger while we run away from it. “I also mourn the loss of life in Baton Rouge and St. Paul earlier this week. More can and must be done to strengthen police accountability and the relationship between police officers and the communities they are sworn to protect and serve. But one thing is clear: violent retaliation against the police cannot be the manner in which we as Americans respond to officer-involved shootings. “The ongoing racial tensions in our nation must be addressed so that we all respect one another as fellow human beings made in the image of God. All life is precious. Our nation needs to come together and address these tensions so that we can overcome unjustified acts of violence. We must live up to our nation’s values of liberty and justice for all. “While many issues contribute to this problem, the House Judiciary Committee is working on a bipartisan basis on a bill to help protect law enforcement officers’ lives, increase police accountability, and enhance public safety. We will continue our work on this issue and explore other ways to address this matter of national importance.”
07.07.2016	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote the Rapid DNA Act of 2016 (H.R. 320). This bill is part of the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative. The Rapid DNA Act, authored by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), updates current law to allow Rapid DNA analysis machines to be used at local police stations. Rapid DNA technology expedites DNA analysis for suspect identification purposes and allows local law enforcement to accurately identify a suspect in 90 minutes. Unfortunately, current law – which was passed in the mid-90’s before the advent of Rapid DNA technology – is outdated and requires DNA samples to be shipped off to a state lab for analysis and communication with the database known as the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). This results in delays of weeks in getting information that can be obtained in less than two hours with Rapid DNA machines. This unnecessary delay has created huge backlogs that impact all crime investigations using forensics, not just forensics used for identification purposes. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised today’s approval of the bill: “While once taking days or weeks, DNA testing can now be completed in a matter of hours. However, a decades-old law prevents the use of Rapid DNA technology in many circumstances, which has created a growing backlog. Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved a bill to remedy this problem so that police stations across the United States can use Rapid DNA technology to quickly identify violent suspects and free the innocent. The House Judiciary Committee will continue to work on other issues facing the criminal justice system so that the Committee’s bipartisan initiative will be ready for consideration by the House.”
07.06.2016	On Tuesday, July 12, 2016 at 10:00 a.m., Attorney General Loretta Lynch will testify before the House Judiciary Committee at an oversight hearing of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). This is Attorney General Lynch’s second appearance before the Committee in her capacity as our nation’s top law enforcement officer. Established in 1870, the Department of Justice is the central agency for the enforcement of the United States’ federal laws. Below is a statement from House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) on the hearing. Chairman Goodlatte: “At the oversight hearing, members of the House Judiciary Committee will examine several issues facing the Justice Department, ranging from recent terrorist attacks in Orlando and San Bernardino to technological advances and their impact on law enforcement activities. We will also seek information about the disturbing politicization of the Justice Department under the Obama Administration, including the Department’s involvement in crafting the New Orleans Police Department’s sanctuary policy and its use of mortgage settlements to funnel money to third-party activist groups. “Additionally, the recent announcement by FBI Director Comey that he does not recommend criminal charges be brought against Hillary Clinton for her mishandling of classified information raises serious concerns. It is uniquely troubling in light of Attorney General Lynch’s secret meeting with former President Bill Clinton. No one is above the law and the American people need to know that federal law enforcement is taking this misconduct seriously. “I look forward to hearing from Attorney General Lynch and learning more about how she and the Justice Department are addressing these important issues.” This hearing will take place in 2237 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/.
07.05.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the FBI’s decision to not recommend criminal charges against former State Department Secretary Hillary Clinton for her mishandling of classified information through private email servers and sent a letter to FBI Director Comey raising concerns about the Bureau’s decision. “I am concerned that despite finding Secretary Clinton acted with extreme carelessness and there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, the FBI is recommending no criminal charges against former Secretary Hillary Clinton. This defies logic. The American people expect government officials to abide by the law just like everyone else. The fact that Secretary Clinton ignored the law and faces no consequences for doing so diminishes the American people’s trust in their government. “I spoke with Director Comey today immediately following his announcement and raised several concerns. I asked several pointed questions about the Bureau’s conclusion and will push for answers. It is clear that Secretary Clinton possibly jeopardized the safety and security of our citizens and nation through her use of private email servers. None should be above the law and the American people need to know that federal law enforcement is taking this misconduct seriously.” Chairman Goodlatte sent the following letter to Director Comey to memorialize the concerns he raised during their phone call today about the FBI’s investigation. The signed copy can be found here. July 5, 2016 Honorable James B. Comey Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Comey: I am concerned that despite finding former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton acted with extreme carelessness and that evidence exists of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, the FBI is not recommending criminal charges against Secretary Clinton. Little solace is found in your detailed breakdown of the FBI’s findings that Secretary Clinton acted “extremely careless” in mishandling classified information. This raises many questions. According to your statement made earlier today, out of the 30,000 e-mails returned to the State Department by Secretary Clinton, 110 e-mails in 52 e-mail chains contained classified information at the time they were sent or received. Eight of those chains contained information that was Top Secret at the time they were sent. Thirty-six chains contained Secret information at the time and eight contained Confidential information. You also noted that separate from those, about 2,000 additional e-mails were “up-classified” to make them Confidential in that the information in those had not been classified at the time the e-mails were sent. During your remarks, you stated that “[a]lthough there is evidence of potential violations of the statutes regarding the handling of classified information, our judgment is that no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case.” But since President Obama took office in 2009, the Department of Justice has prosecuted at least seven people under the Espionage Act. Five of these individuals -- John Kiriakou, Shamai Leibowitz, Chelsea Manning, Jeffrey Sterling, and former State Department official Stephen Kim – were sentenced to terms of incarceration. In 2014, Bronze Star recipient and combat veteran Chief Petty Officer Lyle White pleaded guilty to violating three military regulations for removing classified documents from his Naval office in Virginia and taking them home. He received a suspended 60-day sentence and a suspended $10,000 fine in return for his plea. Bryan Nishimura, a Naval reservist deployed in Afghanistan in 2007 and 2008, in his role as a Regional Engineer for the U.S. military in Afghanistan, had access to classified briefings and digital records that could only be retained and viewed on authorized government computers. Nishimura, however, caused the materials to be downloaded and stored on his personal, unclassified electronic devices and storage media. He carried the classified materials on his unauthorized media when he traveled off-base in Afghanistan and, ultimately, carried those materials back to the United States at the end of his deployment. In the United States, Nishimura continued to maintain the information on unclassified systems in unauthorized locations, and copied the materials onto at least one additional unauthorized and unclassified system. Nishimura pleaded guilty in July of 2015 to unauthorized removal and retention of classified materials. He was fined $7,500 and ordered to surrender his security clearance. Your public pronouncement today of the FBI’s decision to not recommend charges against Secretary Clinton raises a number of questions. I find the timing and manner of your announcement uniquely troubling in light of last week’s secret meeting between Attorney General Loretta Lynch and former President Bill Clinton. I respectfully request that you respond to these questions in writing on or before close of business Monday, July 11, 2016. 1. What sets Secretary Clinton apart from the persons prosecuted for mishandling classified information described above? How does Secretary Clinton’s conduct differ from that of former General David Petraeus or former National Security Advisor Sandy Berger? 2. If the FBI found evidence of potential crimes related to mishandling of classified information by Secretary Clinton and her staff, why would the FBI pre-judge that “no reasonable prosecutor” would ever bring such a case for negligent mishandling of classified information? Is that not a decision that should be made by the Department of Justice? It strikes me as incredibly unorthodox for you to publicly announce that you are recommending that Secretary Clinton not be charged rather than refer the matter privately to the Department. 3. The espionage chapter, specifically, 18 U.S.C. 793(f), doesn’t require that a subject act “intentionally” or “knowingly,” but with “gross negligence.” Whoever, being entrusted with or having lawful possession or control of any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint, plan, map, model, instrument, appliance, note, or information, relating to the national defense, (1) through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of his trust, or to be lost, stolen, abstracted, or destroyed, or (2) having knowledge that the same has been illegally removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of its trust, or lost, or stolen, abstracted, or destroyed, and fails to make prompt report of such loss, theft, abstraction, or destruction to his superior officer. . . . Shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years, or both. Black’s Law defines gross negligence as “a lack of slight diligence or care” or as “a conscious, voluntary, act or omission in reckless disregard of a legal duty and of the consequences to another party…” In your statement you said that Secretary Clinton handled classified email with “extreme carelessness.” How does that not constitute “gross negligence”? 4. Why was Secretary Clinton interviewed only once and only at the end of your investigation? Interviews with her at the early stages and throughout your investigation would have shed light on her conduct in this matter. Certainly, Mrs. Clinton’s position as Secretary of State, the non-disclosure agreement she signed as Secretary (and which all federal employees who have access to classified information sign), the painstaking steps she took to circumvent the use of the .gov email system, and her attempts to seek classified devices for use when working inside her State Department office – all clearly point to her knowledge that she handled classified information as Secretary, that she had a duty to do so according to the law, and that she went out of her way to not do so. She was not a rank and file employee with a security clearance. Did this inform your decision? 5. Section 1924 of title 18, United States Code, prohibits the unlawful removal of classified information and is the statute to which General Petraeus pleaded guilty in 2015. Whoever, being an officer, employee, contractor, or consultant of the United States, and, by virtue of his office, employment, position, or contract, becomes possessed of documents or materials containing classified information of the United States, knowingly removes such documents or materials without authority and with the intent to retain such documents or materials at an unauthorized location shall be fined under this title or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both. Why does the setup of a private server – through which she received Confidential, Secret, and Top Secret classified information – and retention of such information on the private server – not constitute a violation of Section 1924? 6. Are you concerned that your recommendation that Secretary Clinton not be charged sends a message to the thousands – or millions – of government employees and contractors who possess security clearances (not to mention 535 Members of Congress and Senators) that they don’t need to follow the rules? 7. I am concerned that classified information on our military’s Special Access Programs and other Top Secret material that Secretary Clinton sent and received over her private server is now in the hands of adversaries who wish to do us harm. If any other American with a security clearance had placed such sensitive information at risk, is there nothing the FBI would have done to recommend sanctions against such person’s extreme carelessness? 8. What does your recommendation to DOJ that Secretary Clinton not be charged, despite extreme carelessness in the handling of classified information, mean for the FBI’s investigation into the Clinton Foundation? I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
06.27.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released a statement following the Supreme Court’s 5-3 decision in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt: Goodlatte: “Every human life is sacred and precious, and should be protected from the horrors of abortion. Today, the Supreme Court has abandoned those who have no voice – the unborn. “It is truly appalling that the Court has refused to take action against such a horrible, barbaric practice. The State of Texas passed a law that would protect the interests of women, as well as the unborn, from the horrific Gosnell-like conditions within abortion clinics that have been well documented throughout the abortion industry. Abortion practitioners have operated outside the bounds of the law for far too long, and Texas attempted to pass legitimate, common sense protections for the mother and her unborn child. The Court ignored these concerns and struck down these life-saving efforts. “While the Court has failed to protect the health and safety of a mother and her unborn child, the House Judiciary Committee will continue its fight against the atrocities of abortion by advancing federal legislation that is in the best interests of women’s health and the health of unborn children.” Background: Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt questioned the constitutionality of a Texas law (H.B. 2), which requires physicians who perform abortions to have admitting privileges at a hospital, and requires abortion clinics to have facilities comparable to an outpatient surgical center. The need for this legislation arose from a similar law proposed in Pennsylvania that required abortion clinics to comply with the same regulations as outpatient surgical centers. This recommendation was part of a grand jury’s investigation in the trial of Kermit Gosnell, a physician who ran an abortion clinic in Philadelphia, which had not been actively supervised by state or local authorities, or by other medical professionals. Gosnell was ultimately convicted of first-degree murder of three infants who were born alive and for the manslaughter of a patient. The Court was asked to consider whether the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals erred in upholding the Texas law. Click here to read the full opinion.
06.27.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today raised concerns about Obama Administration efforts to relinquish stewardship of key internet functions in light of unanswered legal, constitutional and human rights questions. Other concerns include whether such a transition would jeopardize free expression on the Internet or weaken certain intellectual property protections. In a letter to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, the chairmen caution that the transition may violate the Constitution if it transfers government property to a private entity without congressional approval. The chairmen have sought clarification on whether the root zone file and similar components, which were created and financed by the U.S. government, constitute government property. They advise that transferring these components without congressional approval raises constitutional issues and the prospect of illegality. “Despite NTIA’s intention of ending the United States government role, a number of important issues and concerns exist that indicate that this course is misguided or, at the very least, premature,” the chairmen said in the letter. “As we have stated previously, it is unfortunate that this proposal to eliminate the United States historical stewardship role over key internet management functions has been undertaken not because of technical considerations but for political ones.” They raised concerns about a potential weakening of free expression and human rights protections by leaving terms such as “human rights” undefined and by increasing the authority of foreign governments, some of which have demonstrated a lack of commitment to human rights and an open internet. The chairmen also called into question the legality of the government’s continued work to pursue the transition, given provisions in recent government funding laws that prohibit taxpayer dollars from being used in furtherance of the transition, including proposal review and assessment. The chairmen ask NTIA to respond to the questions raised in their letter and reiterate their commitment to ongoing oversight and examination of a potential transition of the internet authority. Full text of the letter follows: ulJune 27, 2016 The Honorable Lawrence Strickling Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information National Telecommunications and Information Administration United States Department of Commerce 1401 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20230 Dear Assistant Secretary Strickling: The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) recently submitted a proposal to the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) regarding the proposed transfer of key Internet domain name functions to the global multi-stakeholder community. On June 9, 2016, NTIA released a report concluding that this proposal meets the criteria set by NTIA when it announced its intention to transition these functions, known as the Internet Assigned Number Authority (IANA) functions. We are writing to express concerns regarding this proposal and NTIA’s conclusions. As we have stated previously, it is unfortunate that this proposal to eliminate the United States historical stewardship role over key Internet management functions has been undertaken not because of technical considerations but for political ones. When announcing this proposed transition in March, 2014, NTIA specified that such a proposal must have broad community support, maintain the security, stability, and resiliency of the Internet Domain Name System (DNS), meet the needs of the multi-stakeholder community and enhance the multi-stakeholder model, and maintain the openness of the Internet. Importantly, NTIA stated that it would “not accept a proposal that replaces the NTIA role with a government-led or an inter-governmental organization solution.” Further, ICANN and NTIA have repeatedly stated that it is more important to get this right than it is to get it done by an artificial or political deadline. Despite NTIA’s intention of ending the United States government role, a number of important issues and concerns exist that indicate that this course is misguided or, at the very least premature. These include whether or not the administration has the constitutional authority to conduct this transfer without the authorization of Congress because of the United States property interest in the root zone file – or any other similar component of the Internet that was created and financed by the United States. This concern was raised in 2000 by the Government Accountability Office (“GAO”), which questioned whether NTIA could relinquish authority over the root zone file. GAO concluded that it was “unclear whether such a transition would involve a transfer of government property to a private entity.” To date this question has not been answered with any certainty and we filed a request with the GAO seeking clarity to this question. As of yet we have not received an answer and the question of the United States property interest remains outstanding. Consequently we remain concerned that NTIA’s planned transition of the IANA functions may potentially relinquish ownership of United States property. It does not make sense to proceed without definitive answers to this question and doing so may possibly violate the Constitution. In their rush to meet artificial, politically imposed deadlines, the multi-stakeholder working groups have failed to address important issues regarding freedom of speech and human rights. The Cross Community Working Group – Accountability (CCWG) proposal recommends that the ICANN bylaws incorporate a commitment to internationally recognized human rights, yet what this term actually means remains undefined and open-ended. This could lead to the adoption of definitions of free speech that run counter to American values and jurisprudence, in opposition to a free and open Internet. Further, leaving these terms undefined has raised fears that foreign governments could use this ambiguity to use ICANN as a tool to moderate content. The CCWG has deferred resolution of these important considerations until a later date. Without resolution of these issues, the multi-stakeholder community and policymakers cannot in good faith vote to eliminate the United States’ role as a necessary and responsible backstop against threats to openness and free speech on the Internet. Recognizing the harmful impact of potential capture by foreign governments, NTIA explicitly stated that any proposal would not replace the status quo with a governmental or inter-governmental model. However, under the current proposal, the power of foreign governments would be significantly increased via the Governmental Advisory Committee (GAC) as the threshold for the ICANN board to reject GAC advice increases from 50 to 60 percent. Further, foreign governments, via the GAC, will continue to be able to exert special power to convey advice to the board directly for a mandatory vote, unlike other advisory bodies. Additionally, despite the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus spending bill’s prohibition on NTIA using any funds in furtherance of the transition, NTIA has been working to transfer the IANA functions by devoting staff time and commissioning outside studies on the subject. Specifically Section 539 of the FY2016 Omnibus states that funds provided in the Act may not be used to relinquish NTIA’s responsibility for the Internet domain name system functions, including responsibility with respect to the authoritative root zone file and the IANA functions. However, in NTIA’s recent “IANA Stewardship Transition Proposal Assessment Report,” NTIA states that, among other actions, it “utilized a number of resources and tools” to review and assess the IANA stewardship proposal. Further NTIA states that it utilized the DNS Interagency Working Group, comprised of 15 government agencies, to “engage U.S. federal government agencies on matters related to the IANA Stewardship Transition, including proposal review and assessment.” As we are sure you are aware, it is a violation of federal law for an officer or employee of the United States Government “to make or authorize an expenditure or obligation exceeding an amount available in an appropriation or fund for the expenditure or obligation.”] It is troubling that NTIA appears to have taken these actions in violation of this prohibition. Finally, as you know, there exist Public Interest Commitments (PICs) in ICANN’s contracts with new gTLD registries that specifically obligate new generic Top-Level Domain (gTLD) registries (and by extension) registrars to mitigate DNS abuse by Registered Name Holders, including “piracy, trademark or copyright infringement.” While the revised bylaws make it clear that the PICs and the registry contracts that contain them are deemed within ICANN’s mission and not subject to a facial ultra vires challenge, we remain concerned that ICANN’s Board, especially in light of comments made earlier this year, is not fully committed to enforcing the PICs. How will they enforce them? The openness, security, stability the resiliency of the Internet are of paramount importance to all Internet users. The significance of NTIA’s proposed action demands that answers to these concerns and questions be resolved. As many aspects of this proposal lack legal clarity or organizational stability, our Committees are committed to ongoing oversight and examination of these issues as discussions of a potential transfer continue. Any discussion of a transfer of the IANA functions without answers to the following questions remains premature. · As noted above, the CCWG has deferred resolution on important free speech and human rights issues until a later date, potentially after a transition were to occur. How can NTIA ensure that future actions by ICANN do not bring about potentially harmful changes that would limit free speech or human rights once the United States no longer maintains the IANA functions contract? What recourse would NTIA have should this situation occur? · Under the current proposal, the threshold for the ICANN board to reject GAC advice increases from 50 to 60 percent and foreign governments, via the GAC, will continue to be able to exert special power to convey advice to the board directly for a mandatory vote. Many observers are wary that this transition could lead to foreign, totalitarian governments making demands on ICANN that would limit an open and free Internet, harming free speech and human rights across the globe. Others have raised concerns that this could be the first step in an eventual move to transfer control of the Internet to a non-governmental organization such as the International Telecommunications Union (ITU). What contingency plans has NTIA put into place to deal with these possibilities? Please share with us such detailed contingency plans that would ensure continued freedom of the Internet. · The transfer of government property without Congressional approval raises Constitutional issues and the prospect of illegality. The Government Accountability Office is currently conducting a study to determine the United States Government’s property interest in the root zone file – or any other similar component of the Internet that was created and financed by the United States. The Department of Justice’s Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) provides authoritative legal advice to the President and all Executive Branch agencies. Has NTIA requested OLC to analyze this issue concurrently with the GAO? If not, why? · Without the proper analysis regarding the United States Government property interest, it is premature to conduct any transition. Will NTIA commit to postpone any transition in the absence of a determination by GAO and OLC relating to this property issue? · Did NTIA inform other members of the DNS Interagency Working group of the transition related appropriations provision in the FY2106 Omnibus spending bill? · Why did NTIA proceed in utilizing funds in furtherance of the transition in light of the clear prohibition created by the FY2016 Omnibus spending bill? · ICANN’s revised bylaws make it clear that the Public Interest Commitments and the registry contracts that contain them are deemed within ICANN’s mission and not subject to a facial ultra vires challenge. However, some members of the multi-stakeholder community have expressed concern that the ICANN Board may not believe that mitigating certain types of DNS abuse, such as IP infringement, is within ICANN’s mandate. How will this proposal require ICANN’s commitment to maintaining and enforcing the Public Interest Commitments, now and in the future? · Is NTIA opposed to Congress requiring an affirmative, up-or-down vote for the IANA functions transition to be completed? Why or why not? Please provide answers to the above questions by July 22, 2016. Contact Jonathan Nabavi (Chairman Grassley) or Vishal Amin (Chairman Goodlatte) on our staffs if there are any questions regarding this request. We appreciate your timely reply. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary
06.27.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson for answers about why federal immigration authorities released an illegally present alien and took no steps to remove him, consequently allowing him to remain unlawfully and later murder five people. On June 13, 2016, Johnny Josue Sanchez, an alien from Honduras illegally present in the United States, allegedly murdered five people in Los Angeles by intentionally setting fire to the building in which they were sleeping. According to media reports, Sanchez was apprehended by Border Patrol agents after he unlawfully entered the United States in November 2012. He was then transferred to the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), but released one week later after ICE determined that Sanchez did not have a prior criminal history or prior immigration violation. Prior to murdering five people, Sanchez was arrested on multiple drug charges and a domestic violence charge. He was also required to report to ICE, but stopped reporting. Despite these violations, ICE did not detain him or even place him in removal proceedings. In their letter to Secretary Johnson, Chairmen Goodlatte and Grassley rebuke the Obama Administration for its failure to ensure the safety and security of the American public and request that DHS provide them with Sanchez’s immigration and criminal histories. Read the Chairmen’s letter to Secretary Jeh Johnson here. Text of the letter is below. June 27, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: On June 13, 2016, Johnny Josue Sanchez, an alien from Honduras illegally present in the United States, allegedly murdered five people in Los Angeles by intentionally setting fire to the building in which they were sleeping. According to media reports, Sanchez was apprehended by U.S. Border Patrol Agents after he unlawfully entered the United States in November 2012. He was then transferred to the custody of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), but released one week later after ICE determined that Sanchez did not have a prior criminal history or prior immigration violation. Reports indicate that Sanchez was ordered to report regularly to ICE, but according to ICE, he stopped reporting in August 2014 and for “unknown reasons” ICE did not initiate removal proceedings against him. Sanchez was arrested in January 2016 for domestic violence. He was also arrested on drug charges in May and on June 8, five days before the alleged murders. Sanchez is now charged with murder and faces the death penalty. In light of the fact that Sanchez is an illegally present alien, who was known to ICE but not placed in removal proceedings, it appears that the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has not taken all appropriate actions to ensure the safety and security of the American public. Therefore, please provide the following information no later than July 8, 2016: 1. The alien registration number for Sanchez, his complete alien file (A-file), including any temporary files, working files, or Service Center files, and all documents and items contained in them, all reports or notifications generated by DHS or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history or immigration summaries, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Sanchez was encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which he was released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did Sanchez enter the United States? Was he ever served with a Notice to Appear? Was it filed with an immigration court? Please explain. 4. Did Sanchez ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that he may have submitted, whether or not adjudicated. 5. Has Sanchez been removed previously? If so, when? 6. Has ICE issued a detainer or request for notification to any entity regarding Sanchez? Please explain. 7. Was Sanchez a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 8. If Sanchez had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his arrest for murder, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Administration’s Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926 or Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225. Thank you for your cooperation. Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary Charles E. Grassley Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary
06.23.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Supreme Court’s decision in the case of United States v. Texas: “Today’s Supreme Court decision effectively ends President Obama’s unilateral rewrite of our nation’s immigration laws for the remainder of the Obama Administration. This is a win for the American people, the Constitution, and the rule of law. Today’s decision also underscores the importance of who will replace Justice Scalia at the Supreme Court. Our next president must appoint a Supreme Court justice that will stop presidential power grabs and preserve the separation of powers enshrined in the Constitution.” Background: In a 4-4 decision, the Supreme Court effectively blocked President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented for the remainder of the Obama Administration, allowing a lower court ruling to stand. Before taking executive action on immigration, President Obama stated 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own. On November 20, 2014, President Obama announced unilateral changes to the nation’s immigration laws, allowing potentially millions of unlawful immigrants to stay in the United States without a vote of Congress. In December 2014, numerous states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte took the lead in getting more members of the House to sign an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015, a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Following this decision, Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of United States v. Texas. On November 10, 2015, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented. Following this decision, the Supreme Court announced that it would take up the case. On March 17, 2016, the House, with Chairman Goodlatte’s support, approved H. Res. 639, a resolution allowing the Speaker to file a brief on behalf of the whole House of Representatives defending Congress’ Article I powers to write our nation’s laws. Watch Goodlatte’s floor speech on H. Res. 639 here. The House filed its brief on April 4, 2016. Read Goodlatte’s November 2014 op-ed in the Wall Street Journal on the unconstitutionality of President Obama’s unilateral, unconstitutional actions here.
06.23.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) welcomed Jamie Swartz, winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition, to Washington today. Her egg tempera painting, Anthurium Light, will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of a display of artwork by high school artists from across the nation. Jamie resides in Lynchburg and is the daughter of Jim and Sandy Swartz. She is a 2016 graduate of Heritage High School and plans to attend Lynchburg College in the fall. Goodlatte: “Congratulations to Jamie Swartz of Lynchburg on this great achievement! The artistic talents of Sixth District students should be celebrated, and I am pleased that Jamie’s painting, Anthurium Light, will be on display for every visitor to see. Thank you to all of the students who participated in this competition. I wish Jamie the best of luck as she heads to Lynchburg College in the fall.”
06.22.2016	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (VA- 06) and Morgan Griffith (VA-09) today announced the United States Postal Service (USPS) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) has confirmed it has begun a review of the consolidation of the Roanoke Processing and Distribution Center (P&DC) mail processing operations into the Greensboro P&DC. After Goodlatte and Griffith began receiving a significant increase in communications regarding lost or delayed mail, the timing of which strongly suggested a connection to the closing of the Roanoke processing facility, on May 26, 2016, they sent a letter to the USPS OIG requesting an audit. The audit was requested to review the mail processing operations to determine whether constituents’ mail is being processed in a timely manner. The Congressmen also requested that the audit determine if a business case exists to support this particular consolidation, given that USPS has cited cost savings to support network consolidations. Click here to view the letter. The USPS OIG has confirmed that such a review is underway, and indicated the final report is expected in December 2016. Goodlatte and Griffith said, “Folks in Southwest Virginia deserve quality, efficient, and cost effective postal service, just like those living in larger urban areas. We remain troubled about the timeliness and quality of service for mail delivery in our districts, and thank the Inspector General for investigating our concerns. We are also concerned that the Postal Service may have made arbitrary and speculative decisions which ultimately affect the reliability of its service in the Roanoke region, and possibly in other rural areas around the nation. We are pleased an audit is underway, and look forward to thoroughly reviewing the final report.” Prior to moving mail processing and jobs to Greensboro, Goodlatte and Griffith joined Congressman Robert Hurt (VA-05) and Senators Mark Warner (D-VA) and Tim Kaine (D-VA) in sending a letter to the Postmaster General outlining their concerns with the decision to close the Roanoke P&DC. In their letter, the lawmakers expressed their doubts that this action would improve the financial condition of the USPS. They also noted that the decision would leave Central, Western, and Southwest Virginia devoid of reliable mail processing, and voiced their concerns that the Greensboro facility would not be able to handle the timely processing and distribution of Virginians’ mail.
06.21.2016	The House Judiciary Committee has learned that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) significantly underreported the criminal convictions of aliens who the agency released in Fiscal Year 2014. ICE initially told the House Judiciary Committee that the 30,558 criminal aliens released were convicted of 79,059 crimes but they actually were convicted of 92,347 crimes according to new information obtained through the Freedom of Information Act—which is a discrepancy of over 13,000. Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on this new information and sent a letter to Department of Homeland Secretary Jeh Johnson demanding transparency about the criminal aliens released by the Obama Administration. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Obama Administration’s record of releasing criminal aliens has gone from bad to worse. We already know that the Obama Administration’s refusal to detain and remove tens of thousands of criminal aliens poses dangers to American communities and the rule of law, and now we know that the Administration has not been straightforward with Congress about how hazardous its policies truly are. ICE officials initially told the House Judiciary Committee that the criminal aliens released in Fiscal Year 2014 had roughly 79,000 criminal convictions, but they actually had over 92,000 convictions, including additional homicide convictions. There’s no excuse for this large discrepancy. Secretary Johnson and Director Saldaña owe the American public answers about why ICE was not forthcoming about this information, and I intend to pursue this matter until we get answers.” Below is the text of Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to Secretary Johnson. The signed copy can be found here. June 21, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: On April 10, 2015, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) provided information to the Committee regarding the number of criminal aliens released by ICE in FY 2014. This information was made part of the record of the Committee’s oversight hearing of ICE on April 14, 2015, at which Director Saldaña testified. According to the information, ICE released 30,558 criminal aliens in FY 2014 and those aliens had a combined total of 79,059 criminal convictions associated with them. ICE has reiterated that number of convictions to Congress – 79,059 – on multiple occasions, most recently in a letter from Director Saldaña to Senator Grassley on February 11, 2016. In that letter, Director Saldaña asserted that 1,607 of those aliens were convicted of 2,560 additional criminal offenses after their release from ICE custody, as of July 25, 2015. I was greatly disturbed to learn recently that the number of convictions associated with the 30,558 aliens released in FY 2014 was actually 92,347. ICE reported this information to the Immigration Reform Law Institute (IRLI) on April 5, 2016, in response to a request for information under the Freedom of Information Act. What is particularly troubling is that the data provided to IRLI was captured by ICE in March 2015, prior to ICE representing to the Committee that these criminal aliens had only 79,059 convictions. Despite subsequent appearances before congressional committees, neither you, nor the Director has ever attempted to correct this troubling underreporting of criminal activity to Congress – representing over 13,000 criminal convictions. Based on the conviction data alone, the criminal conduct of these released aliens is nearly 17% higher than reported to the Committee in April 2015. This includes significantly more convictions for homicide-related offenses (17%), robberies (22%), sexual assaults (27%), aggravated assaults (17%), domestic violence assaults (11%), and driving under the influence (10%). This disparity demonstrates that these criminal aliens are even more of a threat to public safety than ICE represented to the Committee, and it raises serious questions about whether ICE knowingly misled Congress and the American public concerning the true extent of their danger. To provide an accurate picture of the criminal aliens released by this Administration and the threat they pose to the public, please respond to the following questions no later than July 1, 2016: For FY 2014, FY 2015, and FY 2016 YTD: 1. Please provide the total number of criminal aliens released for each FY. 2. Please provide the total number of criminal convictions for these aliens, categorized by FY and offense type, prior to their release by ICE. 3. Please provide the total number of criminal arrests for these aliens, categorized by FY and offense type, after their release by ICE. 4. Please provide the total number of criminal convictions for these aliens, categorized by FY and offense type, after their release by ICE. 5. Please provide the total number of aliens who were released in any of the referenced FYs and who were subsequently re-arrested by ICE. Please state whether each re-arrested alien is currently detained by ICE and, if not, provide an explanation. 6. For any alien who was re-arrested by ICE after the initial release, please provide the total number of times the alien was re-arrested by ICE. Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please direct any questions to Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
06.16.2016	Earlier today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) testified before the House Committee on the Budget at a hearing on budget reform proposals regarding the need for a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution. Congressman Goodlatte is the sponsor of two versions of the balanced budget amendment, H.J. Res. 1 and H.J. Res. 2. Watch the video and read the text of his testimony below: Click here to watch Congressman Goodlatte’s testimony. House Committee on the Budget Members Day Hearing: Budget Reform Proposals Testimony of Congressman Bob Goodlatte (as prepared) – June 16, 2016 Congressman Goodlatte: Chairman Price, Ranking Member Yarmuth, I appreciate the opportunity to, once again, testify before the Committee. In the past, I have testified before you about the need for comprehensive tax reform and a balanced budget amendment to the United States Constitution, and as you seek proposals and ideas for reforming the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, I would like to reiterate the need for a balanced budget amendment. Article I, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution, calls for a “regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money… [to be] published from time to time.” So while we are called upon to publish a federal budget, unlike those we represent, we do not often balance that budget. Despite attempts to rein in federal spending, our national debt has climbed to well over $19 trillion dollars, and the debt ceiling has been raised numerous times to avoid defaulting on our obligations. Experience has proven time and again that Congress cannot, for any significant length of time, rein in excessive government spending. In order for Congress to be able to consistently make the very tough decisions necessary to sustain fiscal responsibility over the long term, Congress must have an external pressure to force it to do so. For many Congresses, I have introduced balanced budget amendments that would do just that. As the Committee considers reforms to the budget process, I ask that the Committee consider presenting to the states a balanced budget constitutional amendment for ratification. Forty-nine out of fifty state governments, including Virginia, are required to balance their state budgets. Congress should be forced to do the same. The American people deserve responsible governing by their elected officials, both at the state level and the federal level. They have entrusted us with great responsibilities, and we must represent them well. Part of that responsibility lies in communicating with them and remaining accountable to them as well. Our country’s first Secretary of State and fellow Virginian, Thomas Jefferson, warned of the consequences of out-of-control debt when he wrote: “To preserve [the] independence [of the people,] we must not let our rulers load us with perpetual debt. We must make our election between economy and liberty, or profusion and servitude.” We must take this warning seriously and work to communicate the seriousness of this threat to our constituents. I believe it would be pertinent, in any budget reform package, to include additional transparency to the American people. For example, should the debt limit be raised, the American people should receive notice and understanding of that action. Continued increases in our federal debt ought to be paired with continued communication of those actions to the American people. As we budget and spend the American taxpayers’ dollars, it is our responsibility to remain accountable to them. I strongly believe a Constitutional amendment will force Congress to eliminate unnecessary and wasteful spending and make the decisions necessary to balance the budget and eliminate the federal deficit. And increased transparency and communication with the American people will help increase their trust in us to the do the job they sent us here to do. We are at a crossroads in America. We can make the tough choices and control spending, paving the way for a return to surpluses and ultimately paying down the national debt, or we can allow big spenders to lead us further down the road of chronic deficits and leave our children and grandchildren saddled with debt that is not their own. I greatly appreciate your Committee’s work on these extremely important issues. Thank you for the opportunity to testify today.
06.16.2016	Today at an event in National Statuary Hall, Republicans unveiled an initiative to restore self-government and the separation of powers. This plan lays out our vision for a Confident America in which our government listens to the people and upholds the Constitution. This is the fourth plank of A Better Way, a bold agenda to tackle some of our country’s biggest challenges. Earlier, Republicans released initiatives on poverty, security, and the economy. Our plan—available now at better.gop—offers a better way to do the people’s business, including ideas to: • Put a stop to executive overreach. Subject agencies to more scrutiny from a Congress that writes clear laws and enforces clear lines of authority, a judiciary that expedites legal action against the executive branch, watchdogs that have more power, and a public that knows what it has a right to know. • Rein in the regulators. Rewrite old rules so that regulations better reflect the will—and the input—of the people. Let’s make the bureaucrats jump through more hoops—and spend less money—for a change. • Impose new limits on spending. Give Congress and the people the most say—and the final word—over who is spending their money, what it’s being spent on, where it’s being spent, when it’s being spent, and why it’s being spent. • Increase transparency for taxpayers. Make the government catch up with the times and publish more data about how it does the people’s business. Sunlight really is the best disinfectant. These ideas were developed by the Task Force on Restoring Constitutional Authority, which includes: Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY), Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-UT), Oversight & Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT), and Rules Committee Chairman Pete Sessions (R-TX). About A Better Way. A Better Way is a bold policy agenda to address some of the country’s biggest challenges. It takes our timeless principles—liberty, free enterprise, consent of the governed—and applies them to the problems of our time. Developed with input from around the country, it starts the debate now on what we can achieve in 2017 and beyond. It is our vision for a Confident America, at home and abroad. Now we are taking these ideas to the people, so you have a clear choice about the direction of the country. To learn more, visit better.gop.
06.09.2016	Second Plank of Bold Agenda Includes 67 Recommendations to Protect the Homeland, Defeat the Terrorists, Tackle New Threats, and Defend Freedom. share: f t Today, at the Council on Foreign Relations, House Republicans unveiled an initiative that charts a better course for America’s foreign policy and national security. It is a vision for a Confident America that keeps its people safe, and keeps the peace in a dangerous world. This is the second plank of A Better Way, a bold agenda to tackle some of the country’s biggest challenges. The first plank, an initiative aimed at lifting people out of poverty, was released on Tuesday. Our plan—available now at better.gop—includes 67 recommendations for Congress and the President, including ideas to: Protect the Homeland. We must keep terrorists out of America, secure our borders, and stop cyberattacks. Defeat the Terrorists. We must make it our top national security priority to prevail in the war against radical Islamic extremism. Tackle New Threats. We must make sure our country is ready to tackle the threats of our time and beyond. Defend Freedom. We must restore American influence, advance free enterprise, and expand the community of free nations. These ideas were developed by the Task Force on National Security, which includes: Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-TX), Homeland Security Committee Vice Chair Candice Miller (R-MI), Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Jeff Miller (R-FL), Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes (R-CA), Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-CA), and Armed Services Committee Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX). About A Better Way. A Better Way is a bold policy agenda to address some of the country’s biggest challenges. It takes our timeless principles—liberty, free enterprise, consent of the governed—and applies them to the problems of our time. Developed with input from around the country, it starts the debate now on what we can achieve in 2017 and beyond. It is our vision for a Confident America, at home and abroad. Now we are taking these ideas to the people, so you have a clear choice about the direction of the country. To learn more, visit better.gop.
06.08.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised today’s Committee approval of the “Separation of Powers Restoration Act (SOPRA) of 2016” (H.R. 4321) by a vote of 12-8. Since the Supreme Court’s ruling in Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, 467 U.S. 837 (1984), federal courts have rarely questioned federal regulatory agencies’ interpretations of the statutes passed by Congress. This has emboldened federal bureaucrats to overreach and exceed the limits placed in the law by Congress when issuing regulations. SOPRA would restore the proper separation of powers by requiring federal courts to once again carefully scrutinize agencies’ interpretations and decisions regarding the statutes passed by Congress. This renewed judicial oversight will put regulatory agencies on notice that bureaucrats will no longer receive the rubber stamp on their overreaches. Goodlatte: “Today's federal administrative state is an institution unforeseen by the Framers of our Constitution that has turned into a runaway regulatory state. As a result, our system of checks and balances is tipping away from the legislative and judicial branches, and toward a vast, overreaching executive branch. The precedent set by Chevron has been a catalyst for this imbalance in our system of government, and SOPRA will tip the scales back to the way our Framers intended.”
06.02.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement on the one year anniversary of the enactment of the USA Freedom Act: “One year has passed since the enactment of the USA Freedom Act and the law is working. This strong, bipartisan law has ended bulk collection of data by government intelligence and law enforcement agencies, strengthened Americans’ civil liberties protections, increased transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provided national security officials with new, targeted tools to keep America safe. While the passage of this law was a significant accomplishment for both Americans’ civil liberties and national security, we will continue to aggressively keep watch to make sure it continues to be administered as Congress intended.” Learn more about the USA Freedom Act here.
05.25.2016	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 14-10 legislation to strengthen visa security, curb fraud, and enhance the integrity of the immigration system. The Visa Integrity and Security Act of 2016 (H.R. 5203) – introduced by Representative J. Randy Forbes (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) – contains a number of targeted reforms to protect the United States from those seeking to harm Americans or take advantage of its generous immigration system. Chairman Goodlatte: “Terrorists have made it clear that they will exploit our nation’s immigration system to harm Americans and our interests. Visa security is critical to national security and we must address gaping holes in our immigration system that allow those who wish Americans harm and fraudsters to game the system. “The Visa Integrity and Security Act takes a number of steps to strengthen visa security, curb fraud, and enhance the integrity of our nation’s immigration system. Notably, it expands a critical visa vetting program to ensure all visa applicants receive additional screening and requires the government to examine publicly available Internet postings to determine if a visa applicant is a security threat. I thank Congressman Randy Forbes for his work on this bill and urge House Leadership to bring this bill swiftly to the floor.” Key Components of Visa Integrity and Security Act: Strengthens visa security: • Requires the completion of a Security Advisory Opinion as part of the comprehensive security check process for nationals from certain countries of concern, including Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Syria, Sudan, and Yemen. • Requires the Departments of Homeland Security and State to utilize social media and other publicly available information to help determine if the visa applicant is eligible for a visa and if they are a security threat to the United States. • Expands the Visa Security Program to all U.S. embassies and consular posts, ensuring that all visa applicants received additional screening. • Requires officials at DHS to conduct in-person interviews of petitioners and beneficiaries located in the United States seeking to change their immigration status. • Requires the Government Accountability Office to conduct a review of, and report to Congress on, the security of visa processing, including screening and background checks as well as how those results are considered in the adjudication process. Curbs fraud: • Within six months of enactment of the bill, it requires the DHS Secretary to provide the House and Senate Judiciary Committees a plan for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) to use advanced analytics software to ensure the proactive detection of fraud in immigration benefits applications and petitions and to ensure applicants are not a threat to national security. The plan must be implemented one year after it is provided to the Committees. • Requires the USCIS Fraud Detection and National Security Directorate (FDNS) to conduct benefit fraud assessments on various immigration programs and report their findings to the House and Senate Judiciary Committees. • Requires proof of relationship through DNA testing, to be paid for by the applicant, to be submitted with certain visa petitions. Enhances integrity of the immigration system: • For a visa to be issued by officials at the Departments of Homeland Security and State, the applicant must prove eligibility by clear and convincing evidence. • Requires that any request for additional documentation or evidence to substantiate the applicant’s eligibility for a visa must be fulfilled; otherwise the application will be denied. • Under the bill, applicants must answer each question completely and each line must be filled out properly. Requires any document containing foreign language submitted as part of the immigration benefits adjudication process to be accompanied by a full English translation by a certified translator.
05.20.2016	On Tuesday, May 24 at 10:00 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing titled, “Examining the Allegations of Misconduct Against IRS Commissioner John Koskinen, Part I.” At the hearing, members of the House Judiciary Committee will examine the findings of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s investigation of IRS Commissioner Koskinen. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has investigated the targeting of conservative groups for several years and many of the Committee’s members have found that Commissioner Koskinen failed to comply with a congressional subpoena which resulted in destruction of key evidence, made false statements during his sworn congressional testimony, and did not notify Congress that Lois Lerner’s emails were missing. Witnesses for the May 24th hearing are: First Panel The Honorable Jason Chaffetz, Member of Congress The Honorable Ron DeSantis, Member of Congress A Democratic witness to be determined Second Panel The Honorable John Koskinen, Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service (Invited) The hearing will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. In June, the House Judiciary Committee will hold a second full committee hearing to hear from outside experts on the findings presented in the first hearing and whether further congressional action is warranted. Witnesses for the second hearing will be announced at a later date.
05.19.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) have pressed Attorney General Loretta Lynch on the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) efforts to make New Orleans a sanctuary city. In 2010, the mayor of the City of New Orleans requested DOJ to “reform” the New Orleans Police Department (NOPD). In 2011, officials at DOJ’s Civil Division threatened NOPD with a civil rights lawsuit, which led to a consent decree in 2012. As part of the consent decree, NOPD officers were prevented from considering an individual’s immigration status when performing their law enforcement duties. In February 2016, NOPD enacted written policies pursuant to the consent decree that prevent officers from responding to requests by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) regarding criminal aliens in custody, except in very limited circumstances. The Justice Department reviewed and approved those policies prior to their enactment by NOPD. In their letter to Attorney General Lynch, Goodlatte and Gowdy write: “It is outrageous that DOJ would seek a consent decree to actually inhibit the ability of the federal government to enforce federal law. By hindering the ability of ICE to apprehend criminal aliens, DOJ consciously disregards the safety and security of the American public by enabling the release of these criminals back into our communities to commit more crimes. It also places ICE agents and officers at greater risk when they are forced to arrest these criminal aliens who are no longer in a secure jail facility, but in public places where they can more readily escape or access a weapon. In addition, the consent decree may be interpreted to require NOPD to adopt policies that require its officers to violate federal law.” Below is the text of the letter to Attorney General Lynch. The signed copy can be found here. May 18, 2016 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: We are concerned by reports that the Department of Justice (DOJ) sought and obtained a consent decree in federal court requiring the New Orleans Police Department (NOPD) to adopt policies that prohibit police officers from considering an individual’s immigration status when performing their law enforcement duties. Also troubling are reports that DOJ reviewed and approved written policies promulgated by NOPD in implementing the consent decree, which appear to restrict the ability of NOPD officers to respond to requests from U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law. This written policy, “Immigration Status,” became effective on February 28, 2016, and it now appears in Chapter 41.6.1 of the NOPD Operations Manual. The relevant policy statements provide: 3. NOPD members shall not make inquiries into an individual’s immigration status, except as authorized by this Chapter. 4. The enforcement of civil federal immigration laws falls exclusively within the authority of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency (ICE). 5. The NOPD shall not engage in, assist, or support immigration enforcement except as follows: (a) In response to an articulated, direct threat to life or public safety; or (b) When such services are required to safely execute a criminal warrant or court order issued by a federal or state judge. 6. Unless authorized by Paragraph 5, members are not permitted to accept requests by ICE or other agencies to support or assist in immigration enforcement operations . . . . In the event a member receives a request to support or assist in a civil immigration enforcement action[,] he or she shall report the request to his or her supervisor, who shall decline the request and document the declination in an interoffice memorandum to the Superintendent through the chain of command. The NOPD “Immigration Status” policy statements purportedly derive from a consent decree entered into by the City of New Orleans and DOJ on or about July 24, 2012, and approved by the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana on January 11, 2013. The consent decree itself was the result of a request by the mayor of the City of New Orleans to DOJ in May 2010, to review NOPD practices and procedures. In 2011, DOJ’s Civil Division determined that NOPD engaged in a pattern of civil rights violations and, as a result, DOJ initiated litigation against the City of New Orleans to remedy those violations. The consent decree was intended to resolve that litigation. However, it is outrageous that DOJ would seek a consent decree to actually inhibit the ability of the federal government to enforce federal law. By hindering the ability of ICE to apprehend criminal aliens, DOJ consciously disregards the safety and security of the American public by enabling the release of these criminals back into our communities to commit more crimes. It also places ICE agents and officers at greater risk when they are forced to arrest these criminal aliens who are no longer in a secure jail facility, but in public places where they can more readily escape or access a weapon. In addition, the consent decree may be interpreted to require NOPD to adopt policies that require its officers to violate federal law. The policy statements referenced above could be read to require the violation of 8 U.S.C. § 1373, which provides that no person or agency may prohibit or restrict a federal, state, or local agency from sending, requesting, receiving, or exchanging information about an individual’s immigration status with ICE. The Louisiana Legislature is currently considering Louisiana House Bill 151, the “Illegal Alien Sanctuary Policy Prohibition Act.” A legislative hearing on H.B. 151 was held on April 21, 2016, before the Louisiana House Judiciary Committee. At that hearing, representatives from the New Orleans Mayor’s Office and NOPD testified that the “Immigration Status” policy statements were vetted and “enthusiastically” approved by DOJ’s Civil Division. On April 27, 2016, the Louisiana Attorney General sent you a letter regarding the NOPD policy statements. In the letter, Louisiana Attorney General Landry requested that you confirm whether DOJ (1) reviewed and approved the NOPD policy statements, and (2) required the City of New Orleans to adopt the NOPD policy statements as part of the consent decree. The answers to those questions are critical to determine whether DOJ may have impermissibly approved the violation of federal law or required NOPD to violate federal law as a condition of compliance with the consent decree. Therefore, please provide us with a copy of your response to Louisiana Attorney General Landry’s letter when it is issued. To more fully understand the issues described above, on or before May 30, 2016, please also provide copies of all written, printed, recorded, graphic, electronic, audio, or visual material of any kind, whether prepared by you or by any other person, that is in the possession, custody, or control of DOJ, which refers to, or relates to: Any and all communications made by or on behalf of the City of New Orleans, NOPD, DOJ, or any other person, regarding or in response to the review or investigation of the practices or procedures of NOPD on or after January 2009. Any and all communications concerning the consent decree in U.S. v. City of New Orleans, 2:12-CV-01924-SM-JCW (E.D. La. Jan. 11, 2013), including all antecedent communications regarding the decision to initiate that litigation, and all antecedent communications regarding the prosecution and settlement of that litigation. Any and all communications regarding the development, drafting, review, approval, or promulgation of any NOPD policy regarding the immigration status of any person, including the policy statements found in Chapter 41.6.1 of the NOPD Operations Manual. For purposes of this request, “communications” means any disclosure, transfer, or exchange of information or opinion, however made, including but not limited to, emails, voice mails, fax, memoranda, inquiries, or reports. If you cannot fully respond to this request, please identify the specific item within this request to which you cannot fully respond and explain the constitutional rationale for not fully responding. Additionally, please provide a briefing to Committee staff regarding the foregoing matters on or before June 1, 2016. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary Trey Gowdy Chairman, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security
05.18.2016	Representatives Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Bill Flores (R-Texas), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), and Steve Womack (R-Ark.) issued the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed 2017 renewable fuel volumes, which were released yesterday, under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): “The proposed increases in the volume of ethanol under the current RFS will continue to harm America’s consumers and economy while adversely impacting the environment. The EPA’s proposal forces more ethanol into the market than our current infrastructure can handle. This is unsustainable and increases food and fuel costs on hardworking American families. House Members have put forth bipartisan solutions to cap fuel ethanol volumes to match current market realities and lessen the impact of the ethanol mandate on families and businesses. It is time we move forward with solutions that will have a positive impact on the American economy while lowering emissions and protecting consumers.” Click here to read more about Congressman Goodlatte’s bills, H.R. 704, the RFS Reform Act, and H.R. 703, the RFS Elimination Act. Click here to read more about H.R. 5180, the Food and Fuel Consumer Protection Act.
05.13.2016	The House Judiciary Committee today announced that it will hold two full committee hearings to examine misconduct by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen. At the first hearing, which will take place on Tuesday, May 24 at 10:00 a.m., members of the House Judiciary Committee will hear from a witness panel presenting the findings of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s investigation of IRS Commissioner Koskinen. The House Judiciary Committee will also invite IRS Commissioner Koskinen to testify. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee has investigated the targeting of conservative groups for several years and many of the Committee’s members have found that Commissioner Koskinen failed to comply with a congressional subpoena which resulted in destruction of key evidence, made false statements during his sworn congressional testimony, and did not notify Congress that Lois Lerner’s emails were missing. At the second hearing, which will take place in June, members of the House Judiciary Committee will invite outside experts to comment on the findings presented in the first hearing and whether further congressional action is warranted. Witnesses for both hearings will be announced at a later date. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the statement below on the upcoming hearings: “The fact that officials at the IRS wielded their power to target certain Americans for their political views is both outrageous and contrary to our nation’s values. Our government is supposed to work for all Americans, not for a particular partisan agenda. As a result of the IRS’ targeting, conservative groups were singled out across the nation, resulting in lengthy paperwork requirements, overly burdensome information requests, and lengthy, unwarranted delays in their applications. “Despite repeated congressional efforts to get to the bottom of this matter, Obama Administration officials, including the IRS Commissioner, have consistently undermined the investigation. Over the coming weeks, the House Judiciary Committee will closely examine Commissioner Koskinen’s misconduct and the implications of his actions.”
05.13.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that Jamie Swartz, a senior at Heritage High School, is the winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Her egg tempera painting, Anthurium Light, will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of a display of artwork by high school artists from across the nation. Jamie resides in Lynchburg and is the daughter of Jim and Sandy Swartz. She plans to attend Lynchburg College in the fall. Her art instructor at Heritage High School is Jon Roark. Goodlatte: “The Sixth District is home to many talented artists, and the next generation is no exception! I am pleased to announce that Jamie Swartz, a senior at Heritage High School in Lynchburg, is the winner of the Sixth District’s 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Anthurium Light captures Jamie’s skill and eye for detail. I look forward to this painting representing the Sixth District in the U.S. Capitol. Congratulations, Jamie! “Art comes in many forms, and this year’s Congressional Art Competition entries did not disappoint. I applaud the efforts of each student who submitted artwork. Thank you to everyone who participated as well as the teachers and parents encouraging them to learn more about art and test out their own talents.” The 2016 runner-up is In the City by Casey Murano, a student at Hidden Valley High School in Roanoke. The third place winner is Peaks of Otter by Amanda Noel Solomon, a student at Timberlake Christian Schools in Lynchburg. These entries will be on display in Congressman Goodlatte’s Roanoke and Lynchburg offices, respectively.
05.12.2016	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 413-5 the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act (H.R. 5046). This bipartisan bill combats the opioid epidemic by establishing a streamlined, comprehensive opioid abuse grant program that encompasses a variety of new and existing purposes, such as: vital training and resources for first responders and law enforcement; criminal investigations for the unlawful distribution of opioids; drug courts; and residential substance abuse treatment. The bill authorizes $103 million annually for the grant program and is fully offset. Additionally, as a growing number of new abusers of prescription drugs get their first pills by pilfering friends or family members’ prescriptions, the bill as passed contains an amendment allowing states to use funds under the comprehensive opioid abuse grant program to prevent prescription drug pilfering. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the passage of the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Reduction Act: “The Comprehensive Opioid Abuse and Reduction Act represents government at its best. Not only does this bipartisan bill provide necessary resources to state and local governments to help prosecute opioid drug traffickers and help prevent and treat opioid addiction, it also saves taxpayers’ dollars by streamlining the grant program to eliminate government waste and red tape. I thank Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner and Congressman Mike Bishop for their work to end our nation’s opioid epidemic and look forward to working with the Senate to send this bill to the President’s desk.” Passage of H.R. 5046 follows House approval of several House Judiciary Committee bills that curtail international drug trafficking into the United States, protect classified information about drug kingpins, increase the transparency and accountability of the comprehensive opioid abuse grant program, and study Good Samaritan laws that protect those who report or treat an overdose from criminal or civil liability.
05.11.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today praised the Committee’s approval of the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063) by a vote of 18-6. Introduced by Goodlatte, this bill bars the Department of Justice (DOJ), and all other government agencies, from requiring defendants to donate money to outside groups as part of their settlement agreements with the federal government. Need for this legislation arose after a 20-month House Judiciary Committee investigation found that DOJ had engaged in a “pattern or practice” of systematically subverting Congress’s budget authority by using settlements from financial institutions to funnel money to left-wing activist groups. This bill would end this practice and restore accountability to the appropriations process. Goodlatte: “When DOJ recovers money from parties who have broken the law, those funds should be going to victims, or to the Treasury so that Congress can ensure accountability for how the funds are spent. These funds should not be funneled to the president’s pet liberal groups. “Damages recovered by DOJ officials from settlements with major financial institutions in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis should not be going into the pockets of left-wing special interest groups, while Congress is working to help hardworking Americans recover.”
05.10.2016	The House of Representatives today approved two bills to protect law enforcement officers’ lives by reauthorizing the bulletproof vest program and by ensuring officers are able to defend and protect themselves on and off-duty. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the passage of these bills: “This week, we honor our nation’s law enforcement officers who paid the ultimate sacrifice. As officers put their lives on the line every day for their fellow citizens, we must ensure that we provide them with resources to protect them as they serve communities across the United States. The bills approved by the House today reauthorize a critical bulletproof vest program that is proven to save police officers’ lives and ensure federal law enforcement officers can carry their government-issued firearm on and off-duty. I am pleased the House has passed these important bills. We cannot thank law enforcement officers enough for their work to keep Americans safe.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Grant Program Reauthorization Act of 2015 (S. 125), approved by the House by voice vote, reauthorizes the bulletproof vest program fund at $25 million per year and extends the authorization through Fiscal Year 2020. Based on the latest data collected and recorded by the Department of Justice, in Fiscal Year 2012, protective vests were directly attributable to saving the lives of at least 33 law enforcement and corrections officers in 20 different states. S. 125 is supported by all major law enforcement organizations and was approved by the Senate in May 2015. It now heads to the President’s desk to be signed into law. The Federal Law Enforcement Self Defense Protection Act (H.R. 2137), sponsored by Representative Doug Collins (R-Ga.) and approved by the House by voice vote, ensures that officers are able to defend and protect themselves on and off-duty. Because federal law enforcement officers face potentially dangerous situations on a daily basis whether on duty or off-duty, they are permitted to carry their government-issued firearms even when they are not on duty. However, during the government shutdown in 2013, at least three federal agencies prohibited their law enforcement officers from carrying their government-issued firearms or credentials during the furlough. This decision potentially endangered these officers’ lives by putting them at unnecessary risk and prevented these highly trained officers from being prepared to respond to a critical incident or threat. The Federal Law Enforcement Self Defense Protection Act remedies this problem by allowing all covered federal law enforcement officers to continue to carry their government-issued firearms during a furlough or lapse in federal appropriations. It is supported by the Fraternal Order of Police, the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, and the National Association of Police Organizations.
05.03.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today pressed top officials at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) about its catch and release policy that directly contradicts the Obama Administration’s immigration enforcement priorities. In March 2016, the House Judiciary Committee received information from the head of the Border Patrol union showing that DHS Deputy Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas confirmed to Border Patrol agents the Administration’s policy of releasing recent border crossers with no intention of ever removing them. Specifically, Deputy Secretary Mayorkas stated: “Why would we [issue a Notice to Appear to] those we have no intention of deporting? We should not place someone in deportation proceedings, when the courts already have a 3-6 year backlog.” This de facto policy contradicts the Obama Administration’s enforcement priorities issued on November 20, 2014, by DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson. Under the guidelines, aliens apprehended at the border or ports of entry while attempting to unlawfully enter the U.S. are deemed a priority for removal. In letters to DHS Secretary Johnson and Deputy Secretary Mayorkas, Chairman Goodlatte presses the department officials regarding the Administration’s contradicting policies and if Border Patrol agents are forced to release recent unlawful border crossers and not place them in removal proceedings. Read Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to Secretary Johnson here and his letter to Deputy Secretary Mayorkas here.
04.28.2016	The House Judiciary Committee has obtained detailed information about the criminal aliens released by the Obama Administration during Fiscal Year 2015. This new information shows that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) released thousands of criminal aliens convicted of offenses involving dangerous drugs, assault and domestic violence, stolen vehicles, robbery, sex offenses, sexual assault, kidnapping, voluntary manslaughter and other homicide-related offenses. According to information provided by ICE to the House Judiciary Committee, the agency released 19,723 criminal aliens with a total of 64,197 convictions in Fiscal Year 2015. ICE often claims that the Supreme Court’s decision in Zadvydas v. Davis forces it to release aliens that it would otherwise detain. However, the total number of convicted criminal aliens released based on the Zadvydas decision totaled 2,166 in Fiscal Year 2015, representing only 11% of the releases. In addition, officials at the Department of Homeland Security have refused to support legislation, such as H.R. 1148, the Davis-Oliver Act, introduced by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), that would allow, consistent with Zadvydas, for the continued detention of dangerous aliens who cannot be removed. Among the convictions of criminal aliens released in Fiscal Year 2015 are 101 homicide convictions, 216 kidnapping convictions, 320 sexual assault convictions, 352 commercialized sexual offenses, 1,347 domestic violence convictions, 1,728 assault convictions, and 12,307 driving under the influence of alcohol convictions. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on this information: “The Obama Administration’s immigration policies have created a sanctuary for tens of thousands of criminal aliens. The American public has been misled by the enforcement priorities, deferred action, and executive action policies of this Administration, which categorize only certain so-called ‘serious’ criminal aliens as worthy of detention and then removal. Despite its rhetoric, the fact remains that the Obama Administration continues to willingly free dangerous criminal aliens, allowing them to continue to prey upon communities across the United States. “Just last week, the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee heard from some of the families that have lost loved ones at the hands of criminal aliens that the Obama Administration could have detained and deported. When will the Obama Administration end its reckless policies that wreak havoc on our communities and all too often claim Americans’ lives? The Administration could end preventable tragedies if it simply enforced our nation’s immigration laws.”
04.27.2016	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 410-2 the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016 (S. 1890) to protect American trade secrets from theft. The bipartisan Defend Trade Secrets Act amends the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 to create a federal civil remedy for stealing trade secrets that will help American innovators protect their intellectual property from theft. Trade secrets include such vital proprietary information as confidential formulas, manufacturing techniques, and even customer lists. Ensuring the protection of this vital information will help U.S. competiveness, job creation, and our economy. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Rep. Doug Collins (R-Ga.), and Rep. Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) praised today’s House vote: “Intellectual property powers the engine of American innovation and creativity, creates new jobs, and helps grow our economy. Trade secrets, such as confidential formulas, manufacturing techniques, algorithms, and even customer lists, are an important part of the intellectual property portfolios of our most innovative companies and they are becoming increasingly more vulnerable to theft as a result of our globalized economy. The bipartisan Defend Trade Secrets Act will help American companies and innovators protect their intellectual property from criminal theft by foreign agents and those engaging in economic espionage.” Background: The Defend Trade Secrets Act passed the Senate by a vote of 87-0 on April 4, 2016. The legislation will now be sent to President Obama to be signed into law.
04.27.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today introduced the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 (H.R. 5063) to stop the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) “pattern or practice” of systematically subverting Congress’ budget authority by using settlements from financial institutions to funnel money to left-wing activist groups. This bipartisan bill bars the DOJ from requiring settling defendants to donate money to outside groups. An eighteen-month investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees has revealed that DOJ has engaged in a "pattern or practice" of directing settlement funds to third-party groups. In just the last 20 months, DOJ has used mandatory donation provisions to funnel as much as $880 million to third-party groups entirely outside of the Congressional appropriations and oversight process. On Thursday, April 28, 2016, at 10:00 a.m., the Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law will hold a hearing on the Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016. Thursday’s hearing will feature witnesses with experience in Separation of Powers issues, Congress, and the Justice Department: The Honorable Daniel Lungren, former Member of Congress and Attorney General of California. Current Principal, Lungren Lopina LLC. Paul Figley, former Civil Division attorney. Current Associate Director of Legal Rhetoric, American University Washington College of Law. David Uhlmann, Jeffrey F. Liss Professor from Practice, University of Michigan of Law School. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement prior to the hearing: “This is fundamentally a bipartisan, institutional issue. Congress’ spending power is its most effective tool for oversight and reining in Executive overreach. We must defend it. “This common sense bill merely ensures that settlement money goes either to direct victims or to the Treasury for the people’s elected representatives to decide how best to allocate these resources with appropriate oversight to ensure accountability. It is critical that we act. DOJ is ignoring Congress’ concerns -- increasing the use of mandatory donation terms, even as we object. “The purpose of DOJ enforcement actions should be punishment and redress to actual victims. Carrying that concept to communities at large or community groups, however worthy, is a matter for the Legislative branch and is not to be conducted at the unilateral discretion of the Executive.” Background: The Stop Settlement Slush Funds Act of 2016 prohibits settlement terms that require donations to third-parties. It states explicitly that payments to provide restitution for actual harm directly caused, including harm to the environment, are not donations. An investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees reveals that, in just the last two years, DOJ has used mandatory donations to direct as much as $880 million dollars to activist groups. These payments occur entirely outside of the Congressional appropriations and oversight process.
04.27.2016	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 419-0 the Email Privacy Act (H.R. 699) to protect Americans’ privacy and public safety in the digital age. Nearly 30 years ago, Congress passed the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 to provide a fair balance between the privacy expectations of American citizens and the legitimate needs of law enforcement agencies. The law sets forth a system to protect the privacy rights of customers and subscribers of computer network service providers and governs requests to obtain stored content, records, or other information, which includes stored emails, text or instant messages, documents, videos, or sound recordings stored in the cloud. ECPA applies not only to federal criminal investigations and prosecutions, but to state and local investigations and prosecutions, public safety requests, and civil investigations in which stored communications of these types of information are sought. There is broad consensus that ECPA is outdated and contains insufficient protections for Americans’ privacy. The Email Privacy Act, sponsored by Rep. Kevin Yoder (R-Kan.), modernizes ECPA to protect Americans’ privacy and provide law enforcement with tools needed for its investigations. It has 314 cosponsors. Below is a statement from Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, applauding House passage of the Email Privacy Act: “The U.S. Constitution protects Americans’ property from unreasonable searches and seizures and we must ensure that this principle continues to thrive in the digital age. As technology has far-outpaced the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986, the Email Privacy Act modernizes this decades-old law to establish a uniform warrant requirement to acquire stored electronic communications in criminal investigations. These updates to the law will better protect Americans’ constitutional rights without impeding law enforcement’s efforts to protect public safety. With a vast majority of the House supporting this bill, I urge the Senate to take up and pass the bill quickly.” Key Provisions of H.R. 699: Warrant requirement: The bill creates a uniform warrant standard for law enforcement to obtain the content of communications in criminal investigations. ECPA warrants will continue to be executed with the provider since, as with any other third-party custodian, the information is stored with them. It allows the provider to notify its customers of receipt of a warrant, court order, or subpoena, unless the provider is court ordered to delay such notification. Remote Computing Services: The bill maintains current law that delineates which remote computing service providers – or cloud providers – are subject to the warrant requirement for content in a criminal investigation. ECPA has traditionally imposed heightened legal process and procedures to obtain information for which the customer has a reasonable expectation of privacy, namely emails, texts, photos, videos, and documents stored in the cloud. Allows Law Enforcement to Access Public Information: ECPA currently makes no distinction between content disclosed to the public, like an advertisement on a website, versus content disclosed only to one or a handful of persons, like an email or text message. The result is that law enforcement would be required to obtain a warrant even for publicly-disclosed content. The bill clarifies that commercial public content can be obtained with a process other than a warrant. Maintains Congress’s investigative power: The bill clarifies that nothing in the law limits Congress’s authority to subpoena information from third parties in furtherance of congressional oversight.
04.20.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman Jeff Miller (R-Fla.), Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, responded today to a report issued by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General showing an “inappropriate prioritization of appeals” at the Roanoke VA Regional Office (VARO). Goodlatte and Miller recently toured the Salem VA Medical Center and held a roundtable with local veterans in Vinton. Congressman Bob Goodlatte: “Veterans put their lives on the line for this country. And this is how they are treated? The Roanoke VA Regional Office’s decision to prioritize new appeals claims over old claims that have been waiting for years is baffling. Utilizing a ‘last in, first out’ method fails to pass the test of common sense, and cherry picking which appeals to process in order to artificially inflate numbers is a disservice to the veterans this agency is tasked with serving. Our veterans have done their duty to serve us. It is now our duty to serve them. That’s the purpose of the VA. We need greater accountability within the VA, including at the Roanoke VARO. I’ll continue working to see employees held accountable, backlogs reduced, and quality of care increased at VA facilities. Virginia’s veterans deserve a VA system that works on their behalf.” Congressman Jeff Miller, Chairman, House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: “This troubling report documents how supervisors directed employees to cut corners in order to make themselves look good while short changing veterans in the process. It’s not enough for VA to simply say ‘this won’t happen again.’ In order to regain the trust of the Virginia veterans the Roanoke VARO is charged with serving, it’s incumbent upon VA to publicly outline the steps it is taking to hold those responsible for these problems accountable. Until then, Virginia veterans will be left wondering if their appeals are being adjudicated appropriately.” Key Findings: The VAOIG report found that the Roanoke VARO was processing newer appeals with fewer issues before older appeals in order to reduce the appeals inventory by 50 percent by Fiscal Year 2014. Of the 12,890 appeals pending, 3,350 dated back to the Fiscal Year 2009 to Fiscal Year 2013 time frame. The average age for the 3,350 pending appeals was nearly three years. At the recommendation of the VAOIG, on August 20, 2015, the Roanoke VARO implemented a Standard Operating Procedure for prioritizing appeals that have been pending the longest. In addition, they have added 11 additional personnel to process the appeals workload, focusing on the oldest appeals.
04.18.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement in advance of oral arguments before the Supreme Court in a case challenging President Obama’s executive actions on immigration: “The case of United States v. Texas is fundamentally about preserving the separation of powers and its outcome will have drastic implications for our Republic. All three branches of government have weighed in against President Obama’s unilateral actions: the lower courts have blocked them from being implemented, the House of Representatives has filed a brief opposing them, and the President himself stated over 20 times – before he took his unilateral action – that he does not have the authority to change our nation’s immigration laws on his own. I am hopeful that the Supreme Court will stop President Obama’s lawlessness so that we protect the Constitution and the intent of the Founding Fathers that the legislative branch, which reflects the will of and is accountable to the American people, makes the laws, not the President.” Background: Before taking executive action on immigration, President Obama stated 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own. On November 20, 2014, President Obama announced unilateral changes to the nation’s immigration laws, allowing potentially millions of unlawful immigrants to stay in the United States without a vote of Congress. In December 2014, numerous states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte and others signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015, a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Following this decision, Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of United States v. Texas. On November 10, 2015, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented. Following this decision, the Supreme Court announced that it would take up the case. On March 17, 2016, the House approved H. Res. 639, a resolution allowing the Speaker to file a brief on behalf of the whole House of Representatives defending Congress’ Article I powers to write our nation’s laws. Watch Goodlatte’s floor speech on H. Res. 639 here. The House filed its brief on April 4, 2016. Read Goodlatte’s November 2014 op-ed in the Wall Street Journal on the unconstitutionality of President Obama’s unilateral, unconstitutional actions here.
04.12.2016	The House of Representatives today approved the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2016 (H.R. 4676). This bill protects veterans from financial predators who target them for their own financial gain. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, managed the floor debate for the bill since it is under the jurisdiction of the House Judiciary Committee, and issued the following statement on the bill’s passage: “Fraudsters preying upon our nation’s heroes for profit must be held accountable for their deplorable actions. I thank Representatives Rooney and Deutch for their hard work on a bill that closes loopholes in current law to ensure those who target veterans for financial gain face criminal charges and prosecution for their crimes. I am pleased that the House passed the Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2016 today and urge the Senate to quickly pass it.” Background: Under current law, only agents or attorneys who have met all standard qualifications and standards prescribed by the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs may charge a fee to assist a veteran or claimant in an appeals case. While it is illegal for anyone who is not an approved agent or attorney to charge any fee for assisting a veteran in filing a claim or appeal with the VA, there’s no criminal or financial penalty for breaking the law. As a result, financial predators across the country are targeting veterans, many of whom are elderly and live in low-income housing. They offer to help veterans with their cases, claim to get their benefits approved in record time, charge fees that are often in the thousands of dollars, and then provide them with little or no assistance. The Preventing Crimes Against Veterans Act of 2016 penalizes fraudsters that blatantly engage in a scheme to defraud a veteran of his or her benefits, or in connection with obtaining that veteran’s benefits, by imposing a fine, imprisonment of up to five years, or both. VIDEO: Watch Congressman Goodlatte’s speech on the House floor in support of H.R. 4676.
04.05.2016	The Government Accountability Office (GAO) has found that two Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) employees illegally interfered with a Congressional investigation and has recommended sanctions. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised the report from the GAO and called on HUD to follow GAO’s recommendations. The case arose out of a 2012 Congressional investigation into a secret deal orchestrated by then-Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division Tom Perez. Fearing a pending Supreme Court case would outlaw controversial legal tactics DOJ favored, he persuaded the litigant to drop the appeal in exchange for DOJ halting an unrelated fraud investigation into the litigant. HUD had a key role in the fraud investigation and accordingly Congressional staff sought interviews with certain HUD employees. GAO’s report found that HUD’s General Deputy Assistant Secretary and Associate General Counsel actively sought to block Congressional access to a key employee. The GAO concluded that such interference violated federal law prohibiting salary payments to officials who seek to bar employees from communicating with Congress. The evidence showed the instruction to the employee was not part of good faith negotiations, but rather an attempt to block Congressional access to the employee. Accordingly, GAO concluded that “HUD’s appropriation was not available to pay the salaries” of the officials involved, and recommended “HUD seek to recover these [salary] payments” for the period comprising the violation. Chairman Goodlatte: “Today’s report underscores that Congress will not permit the Executive Branch to stonewall. Federal law provides penalties for Executive Branch officials who obstruct Congressional oversight and these will be enforced. One of Congress’ central duties is to check Executive Branch overreach, and to exercise its oversight powers when it suspects wrongdoing. Today’s report by GAO shows that HUD clearly stonewalled Congress’ investigation of its involvement in Mr. Perez’s secret deal. HUD must now take appropriate action including following GAO’s recommendation to claw back salary payments from the two officials implicated.” Background: A longstanding provision in federal appropriations bills prohibits paying the salary of agency officials who attempt to prevent any employee from speaking to Congress. At the request of Chairman Goodlatte, Chairman Chaffetz and Chairman Grassley, the GAO investigated whether HUD officials engaged in precisely such interference. Despite strong evidence, GAO initially found no wrongdoing. Justifications included that HUD officials’ instructions not to speak to Congress did not contain a threat of consequences for disobedience. Accordingly, the Committees repeated their inquiry and provided additional evidence. As a result, GAO continued to investigate the matter and reversed their findings in the report issued today. The House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on the secret deal conducted by then Assistant Attorney General Perez in April of 2013. Click here to learn more about the report.
04.01.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement after all six Roanoke City Council candidates expressed support for making Roanoke a “sanctuary city,” which shields individuals from the enforcement of federal immigration laws: “It may be April Fool’s Day, but this is no joking matter. It is extremely alarming that anyone seeking elected office would support this wrongheaded policy. Sanctuary cities needlessly endanger American lives by adopting public policies refusing to cooperate with the federal government to enforce immigration laws. These sanctuary cities are known to become magnets for gangs, drug dealers, and other criminal aliens as safe havens to avoid apprehension, detention, and deportation under our immigration laws. The preventable tragedies as a result of this are all too common. The unlawful criminal alien who went on to murder Kate Steinle on a pier in San Francisco was previously detained by San Francisco police on drug charges. However, he was released by city officials. Why? Because San Francisco is a sanctuary city. “Why is it more important to shield dangerous criminal aliens from immigration enforcement than it is to protect the people of Roanoke? In representing Roanoke and the Sixth Congressional District in Congress, I do not want to see a single life lost or any additional victims of other crimes at the hands of criminal aliens. I hope the City of Roanoke remains with the many thousands of local governments in the U.S. that do not support so-called sanctuary city policies. Our immigration laws must be enforced and respect for the rule of law maintained.” Legislative Action: In July 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, which would withhold several federal grants from states or localities that refuse to comply with federal immigration enforcement efforts and threaten the safety of their communities. Additionally, H.R. 1148, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act, was approved by the House Judiciary Committee last year. Among the bill’s provisions, it also would withhold specific grants from sanctuary cities that defy federal immigration enforcement efforts. Additionally, it would end the President’s ability to shut down immigration enforcement efforts unilaterally and would protect the American public by facilitating and expediting the removal of criminal aliens.
03.23.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, applauded House passage of H.R. 2745, the Standard Merger and Acquisition Reviews Through Equal Rules (SMARTER) Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 235-171. Under existing law, the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Justice review proposed mergers and acquisitions. However, the two antitrust agencies face different standards in court and utilize different processes when reviewing these transactions. The way a reviewing agency is chosen can appear random, as if it is decided by the flip of a coin. The SMARTER Act eliminates the existing disparities between the two antitrust enforcement agencies and ensures that companies face the same standards and processes regardless of which federal agency reviews the merger. Goodlatte: “Mergers have the potential to significantly impact our nation’s economy and the livelihood of millions of Americans. The review process for proposed mergers should be fair, transparent and predictable. The results of an antitrust merger review should not depend on which antitrust enforcement agency happens to review the deal. The outcome should not be determined by the flip of an agency coin. The future of some American businesses depends on a fair merger review by the federal government, and the process must be predictable. The SMARTER Act harmonizes the merger review process to ensure that companies face the same standards and processes regardless of whether the Federal Trade Commission or the Justice Department reviews the merger.”
03.21.2016	Following the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee’s hearing on the ongoing surge at the southwest border, the House Judiciary Committee received information from the head of the Border Patrol union showing that a high-ranking Obama Administration official confirmed to Border Patrol agents the Administration’s policy of releasing recent border crossers with no intention of ever removing them. In his responses to questions submitted for the record to the Committee, Brandon Judd, President of the American Federation of Government Employees National Border Patrol Council, stated that on August 26, 2015 he and two other Border Patrol agents met with Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Deputy Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas to discuss concerns about the Administration’s policy of releasing unlawful immigrants into the United States. During the meeting, Deputy Secretary Mayorkas confirmed to the agents that the Administration has no intention of removing unlawful immigrants coming to the border as part of the ongoing surge. Specifically, he stated: “Why would we [issue a Notice to Appear to] those we have no intention of deporting? We should not place someone in deportation proceedings, when the courts already have a 3-6 year backlog.” This de facto policy contradicts the Obama Administration’s so-called enforcement priorities issued on November 20, 2014 by DHS Secretary Jeh Johnson. Under the guidelines, unlawful immigrants who came to the United States after January 1, 2014 and recent border crossers are deemed a priority for removal and are to be placed in deportation proceedings. However, Deputy Secretary Mayorkas’ comments to Border Patrol agents contradict the Administration’s own policies put forth by Secretary Johnson. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on this information provided to the Committee: “Not only has President Obama sought to undermine our immigration laws at every opportunity possible, now his political appointees have implemented a ‘catch and release’ policy that contradicts the Administration’s already weak enforcement priorities. Rather than take the steps necessary to end the border surge, the Obama Administration is encouraging more to come by forcing Border Patrol agents to release unlawful immigrants into the United States with no intention of ever removing them. “The ongoing lack of enforcement and dismantling of our immigration laws undermines both our nation’s immigration system and the American people’s faith in their government.”
03.17.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on House approval of H. Res. 639, a resolution allowing the Speaker to file a brief on behalf of the House of Representatives defending Congress’ Article 1 powers to write our nation’s laws: “President Obama’s decision to ignore the constitutional limits placed on his power and act unilaterally to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws are a threat to our Republic. The President himself stated at least 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own yet he did so anyway. Such lawlessness must be stopped so that we preserve the separation of powers in the Constitution and protect individual liberty. “The people’s duly elected representatives in Congress cannot sit silent as the Executive Branch continues to overstep its constitutional authority. I thank Speaker Ryan for his efforts to defend Congress’ constitutional powers so that we protect freedom for future generations, and am pleased the House acted today to fight President Obama’s power grab.” Background: In December 2014, numerous states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte and others signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015 a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Following this decision, Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of United States v. Texas. On November 10, 2015, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented. The case is now pending in the Supreme Court. Watch Goodlatte’s floor speech on H. Res. 639 here.
03.16.2016	Fox News: America’s refugee program must be reformed. Here’s our solution By Rep. Bob Goodlatte and Rep. Raul Labrador The United States has a generous refugee resettlement program. However, revelations about fraud, security gaps, and lack of oversight have demonstrated that the program is not working in the best interest of our country. We should continue to accept and resettle vulnerable populations from around the world but it’s clear that reforms are needed. All too often we hear about fraud in the refugee program and bad actors seeking to exploit our kindness. Just like other immigration benefit programs, unscrupulous individuals try to game the system to enter the United States. Federal immigration officers often encounter fraud in refugee applications, including the use of a false identity, fake documents, or lying about eligibility. For example, an Ethiopian prison guard, Kefelgn Alemu Worku, tortured and killed political prisoners in Ethiopia but was able to come to the U.S. as a refugee in 2004 after he lied about his past and stole someone’s identity. Almost a decade later and after he became a U.S. citizen, he was convicted on several charges, including making false statements on immigration documents and using a false identity. Several refugees have also been arrested on federal terrorism charges. For example, two Iraqi refugees admitted to the United States in 2009 –Mohanad Shareef Hammadi and Waad Ramadan Alwan – confessed to using improvised explosive devices against U.S. soldiers in Iraq and sending weapons and money to al Qaeda in Iraq for the purpose of killing American soldiers. And in January of this year, two refugees from Iraq – Omar Faraj Saeed Al Hardan and Aws Mohammed Younis Al-Jayab – were arrested for attempting to provide material support to ISIS and for lying to U.S. immigration officials about their alleged ties to terrorist organizations. With ISIS terrorists vowing to infiltrate Western countries through the refugee system, existing security gaps only increase their chances of coming to our shores. The American people currently have little say about the program since their elected representatives closest to them do not have any authority over the number of refugees admitted to the U.S. as well as where they are resettled. Although the Constitution gives Congress the express authority to write our nation’s immigration laws, the President of the United States – not the People’s duly elected representatives in Congress – has the sole power under current law to determine how many refugees come each year and where they are resettled. When concerns about the lack of vetting for Syrian refugees erupted late last year, over half of our governors said they were opposed to letting them into their states. This opposition tracked with the American people, as poll after poll showing a majority had concerns about accepting Syrian refugees. While the Obama Administration claims to work with communities that express concern about refugee resettlement within their jurisdictions, it generally continues to resettle refugees in these communities despite their concerns. These and other problems prompted us to introduce the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act. Our bill contains a number of targeted, commonsense reforms that will improve our nation’s refugee program while maintaining our nation’s generosity to people around the globe fleeing persecution. The bill takes several steps to enhance the integrity of the refugee program, curb fraud, and protect national security. Notably, it requires the implementation of a fraudulent document detection program and the creation of a searchable database of scanned documents to help federal immigration officers detect fraud trends in the processing of refugee applications. It also requires federal immigration officers to review open source Internet postings, including social media, for each applicant, which will help aid in determining if the applicant is who they say they are. While the bill increases our frontline defenses for the refugee program, it also creates a second line of defense once the refugee is admitted to the United States by allowing regular security vetting of each admitted refugee until they change their immigration status. It also requires the nonpartisan Government Accountability Office to issue a report on the security of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, the number of refugees who have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses, and the use of federally-funded benefit programs by refugees resettled in the United States. Importantly, our bill brings power back to the American people by allowing their elected officials to make decisions about the refugee program. The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act sets the refugee ceiling at 60,000 each year – down from the 85,000 set by President Obama this year -- and places any changes to the limit in Congress’ hands. No longer will the President unilaterally decide how many refugees come to the U.S. each year. This change ensures uniformity, with Congress setting annual limits, as is the case for all other immigration programs that have annual limits. Additionally, the bill empowers state and local governments to decide if resettling refugees within their jurisdictions is best for their communities. The United States and the American people are compassionate and generous towards the world’s refugees but we must not allow bad actors to take advantage of our benevolence. The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act makes meaningful reforms to the refugee program which maintains our nation’s proud history of welcoming those in need of a safe home and the integrity of our immigration system. Republican Bob Goodlatte represents Virginia's 6th congressional district in the House of Representatives. He is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. Representative Raul Labrador represents Idaho’s 1st congressional district in the House of Representatives and is Vice Chairman of the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee. http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2016/03/16/goodlatte-labrador-america-s-refugee-program-must-be-reformed-here-s-our-solution.html
03.16.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s nominee to the Supreme Court of the United States: “The Constitution of the United States grants President Obama the authority to make a nomination to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court. Our Framers also entrusted the United States Senate with the right to consent to or reject such a nominee. Senate Majority Leader McConnell and Senate Judiciary Chairman Grassley have stated their intentions to allow the American people to have a say in this important appointment, and I support their decision. The American people should have a say in how we pick such a member of the highest court in the land.”
03.16.2016	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 18-9 the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 4731). This bill, authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Vice Chairman Raul Labrador (R-Idaho) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. Chairman Goodlatte made the following statement on today’s Committee approval of the bill: “The United States has a generous refugee program that provides people fleeing persecution with a safe haven. Americans are kind and compassionate towards those in need, but we cannot allow our nation’s refugee program to be exploited by fraudsters and those wishing to do us harm. It’s clear that reforms are needed so that the program works in the best interest of Americans and ensures that the program is made available only to those who are being persecuted. “The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act, approved by the House Judiciary Committee today, makes meaningful reforms to the refugee program to curb fraud, strengthen national security and public safety, and restore integrity to the program. The bill sets the annual refugee resettlement ceiling so that the People’s duly elected representatives in Congress, not the President, decide what that number should be. It also empowers state and local governments to decide whether or not refugee resettlement is best for their communities. I am pleased the Committee approved this legislation and I urge the House to take it up soon.” Key Components of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: Places the refugee ceiling in Congress’ hands—not the President’s: • The bill sets the refugee ceiling at 60,000 per year. It allows the President to recommend a revision of the ceiling number and Congress can choose to act on that recommendation. • The bill prevents the President from admitting additional refugees without Congress’ approval. Empowers state and local communities: • Currently, states or localities that do not want refugees resettled within their communities have no recourse. The bill remedies this issue and prevents the resettlement of refugees in any state or locality that takes legislative or executive action disapproving resettlement within their jurisdiction. Enhances integrity of refugee program and curbs fraud: • It requires that when processing refugee applications from countries listed as “Countries of Particular Concern” in the annual report of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, claims/applications that are based on religious persecution and are made by individuals who practice minority religions in such countries, are prioritized. • The bill requires termination of refugee status if a resettled refugee returns to the country from which they fled, absent a change in country conditions. • It requires the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to implement a fraudulent document detection program for refugee processing, including the placement of Fraud Detection and National Security officials at initial refugee screening, and the creation of a searchable database of scanned and categorized documents submitted by potential refugees at initial screening. • It provides for regular security vetting of each admitted refugee until the refugee adjusts immigration status to lawful permanent resident. • Within one year of the bill becoming law, all U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) interviews, performed during USCIS circuit rides and done with the assistance of an interpreter, are to be recorded and DHS must review a random selection of 20% of the recordings to ensure that the interpreter correctly interpreted the interview. If an interpreter is found to have incorrectly interpreted the interview, the interpreter cannot serve as an interpreter for immigration purposes. • The bill requires USCIS to review open source Internet postings, including social media, for each applicant. Strengthens public safety and national security: • The bill prevents the Secretary of DHS from unilaterally waiving most grounds of inadmissibility, including criminal convictions, for refugees. • It also prevents the DHS Secretary from waiving most grounds of inadmissibility and deportability, including criminal grounds, for refugees attempting to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident. • The bill requires the Government Accountability Office to issue a report on the security of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (including the screening and processing procedures); the number of refugees who have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses since 2006; and the use of federally-funded benefit programs by refugees resettled in the United States.
03.15.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) have pressed the Obama Administration for answers about how a previously-deported criminal known to authorities went on to murder five people. Pablo Antonio Serrano-Vitorino, an unlawful immigrant, allegedly murdered five people last week in Kansas City, Kansas and Montgomery County, Missouri. According to information provided by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), not only did Serrano-Vitorino illegally enter and reenter the United States after being removed, he also has a long history of violent criminal activity, including several assault-related arrests and a conviction based on his threat to kill his wife with a rifle for which he spent two years in prison. On at least two occasions, ICE was notified of Serrano-Vitorino’s arrests, but for various reasons, did not take custody of him, which allowed him to evade deportation by taking advantage of at least one sanctuary jurisdiction and weak immigration enforcement policies. In their letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, Goodlatte and Grassley request information about Serrano-Vitorino’s immigration history, encounters with law enforcement, and if he benefited from President Obama’s executive amnesty program. Below is the text of the Chairmen’s letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. A copy of the letter is available here. March 14, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: Pablo Antonio Serrano-Vitorino, an alien illegally present in the United States, allegedly murdered five people on or about March 8, 2016, in Kansas City, Kansas and Montgomery County, Missouri. According to information provided to our committees by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Serrano-Vitorino entered the country illegally in 1993, committed a series of crimes, and was removed in April 2004. The same month he was removed, he illegally reentered, but was voluntarily returned by the Border Patrol. Serrano-Vitorino illegally reentered the United States again sometime before June 2007 and resumed his criminal activity. According to ICE, Serrano-Vitorino has been arrested and charged with numerous crimes, including: communicating a threat with intent to terrorize; battery of a spouse; several driving without a license offenses; a subsequent a felony conviction for communicating a threat with intent to terrorize, reportedly based on his threat to kill his wife with a rifle, for which he was sentenced to incarceration for two years; two arrests for driving under the influence, which resulted in one conviction; and a conviction for domestic battery. On at least two occasions, ICE was notified of Serrano-Vitorino’s arrests, but for various reasons, did not take custody of him. It appears that there was a systemic failure to effectively communicate between ICE and local law enforcement entities, allowing Serrano-Vitorino to evade removal by taking advantage of at least one sanctuary jurisdiction and weak immigration enforcement policies. As a result, five people in Missouri and Kansas were murdered, allegedly by Serrano-Vitorino, an alien who had illegally entered the United States on multiple occasions and consistently demonstrated his utter disregard for our laws. For a more thorough understanding of how this violent offender evaded immigration authorities and removal from the United States for many years and was allowed to allegedly murder five people in two states, please provide the following information not later than March 28, 2016: 1. The alien registration number for Serrano-Vitorino, his complete alien file (A-file), and all reports or notifications generated by DHS or in its possession about him, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history, immigration history, immigration benefits applications, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek his removal from the United States. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Serrano-Vitorino was encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which he was released released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How and when did Serrano-Vitorino enter the United States? Was he ever issued a Notice to Appear? Please explain. 4. Did Serrano-Vitorino ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that he may have submitted. 5. How many times has Serrano-Vitorino been removed previously? When? 6. When and to whom did ICE issue a detainer on Serrano-Vitorino, or request that it be notified of his release from custody? Please explain. 7. Was Serrano-Vitorino a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 8. If Serrano-Vitorino had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his arrest in connection with the murders on March 8, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Administration’s new Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926 or Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225. Thank you for your cooperation. Bob Goodlatte Charles E. Grassley Chairman Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary Senate Committee on the Judiciary
03.15.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement in response to President Obama’s decision to reverse course and block new oil and gas drilling off the southeast Atlantic Coast, including Virginia: “Energy exploration means jobs, vital resources, and new opportunities. But with today’s announcement, President Obama is backpedaling on unlocking America’s energy potential. Just last year, President Obama put forth a plan that would allow for the exploration of energy resources off the coast of Virginia. Even Governor McAuliffe was supportive of this opportunity! However, now, the Obama Administration has become so keen on upholding their liberal legacy that they have reversed course and once again stand in the way of good paying jobs for our fellow Virginians and economic growth for the Commonwealth. This isn’t the kind of leadership or energy solutions we need. Our energy policies should make use of every resource available to help keep costs affordable and lead the United States towards energy independence.”
03.14.2016	House Judiciary Committee Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Vice Chairman Raul Labrador (R-Idaho) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today introduced the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act (H.R. 4731). The bill reforms the refugee program by curbing fraud and strengthening public safety and national security. It also provides state and local governments the power to decide if refugees are to be resettled within their communities and gives Congress, not the President, the authority to set the overall refugee ceiling for each year. The House Judiciary Committee will mark up this legislation on Wednesday, March 16, 2016. Chairman Goodlatte released the following statement on introduction of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: “The United States has a generous refugee program that has provided millions of people fleeing persecution with a safe home. However, all too often we hear about fraud in the refugee program and bad actors seeking to exploit our kindness. Additionally, the American people have little say in the process since the President has the sole power to determine how many refugees come each year and where they are to be resettled in the United States. “The Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act makes meaningful reforms to the refugee program to curb fraud, strengthen national security and public safety, and restore integrity to the program. The bill sets the annual refugee resettlement ceiling so that the People’s duly elected representatives in Congress, not the President, decide what that number should be. It also empowers state and local governments to decide whether or not refugee resettlement is best for their communities. I thank Representative Labrador for his work on this bill and look forward to moving it through the House Judiciary Committee soon.” Original cosponsors of the bill are Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) and Representatives Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Doug Collins (R-Ga.). Key Components of the Refugee Program Integrity Restoration Act: Places the refugee ceiling in Congress’ hands—not the President’s: • The bill sets the refugee ceiling at 60,000 per year. It allows the President to recommend a revision of the ceiling number and Congress can choose to act on that recommendation. • The bill prevents the President from admitting additional refugees without Congress’ approval. Empowers state and local communities: • Currently, states or localities that do not want refugees resettled within their communities have no recourse. The bill remedies this issue and prevents the resettlement of refugees in any state or locality that takes legislative or executive action disapproving resettlement within their jurisdiction. Enhances integrity of refugee program and curbs fraud: • It requires that when processing refugee applications from countries listed as “Countries of Particular Concern” in the annual report of the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom, claims/applications that are based on religious persecution and are made by individuals who practice minority religions in such countries, are prioritized. • The bill requires termination of refugee status if a resettled refugee returns to the country from which they fled, absent a change in country conditions. • It requires the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to implement a fraudulent document detection program for refugee processing, including the placement of Fraud Detection and National Security officials at initial refugee screening, and the creation of a searchable database of scanned and categorized documents submitted by potential refugees at initial screening. • It provides for regular security vetting of each admitted refugee until the refugee adjusts immigration status to lawful permanent resident. • Within one year of the bill becoming law, all U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) interviews, performed during USCIS circuit rides and done with the assistance of an interpreter, are to be recorded and DHS must review a random selection of 20% of the recordings to ensure that the interpreter correctly interpreted the interview. If an interpreter is found to have incorrectly interpreted the interview, the interpreter cannot serve as an interpreter for immigration purposes. • The bill requires USCIS to review open source Internet postings, including social media, for each applicant. Strengthens public safety and national security: • The bill prevents the Secretary of DHS from unilaterally waiving most grounds of inadmissibility, including criminal convictions, for refugees. • It also prevents the DHS Secretary from waiving most grounds of inadmissibility and deportability, including criminal grounds, for refugees attempting to adjust their status to lawful permanent resident. • The bill requires the Government Accountability Office to issue a report on the security of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (including the screening and processing procedures); the number of refugees who have been convicted of terrorism-related offenses since 2006; and the use of federally-funded benefit programs by refugees resettled in the United States.
03.03.2016	Today, Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced H. Con. Res. 123, a resolution to congressionally designate the George C. Marshall Foundation’s museum and library, located in Lexington, as the “National George C. Marshall Museum and Library.” H. Con. Res. 123 is co-sponsored by the entire Virginia delegation in the House of Representatives: Reps. Rob Wittman, Scott Rigell, Bobby Scott, J. Randy Forbes, Robert Hurt, Dave Brat, Don Beyer, H. Morgan Griffith, Barbara Comstock, and Gerry Connolly. Goodlatte released the following statement on the resolution: “General George C. Marshall’s leadership changed the world. From engineering the Allied plan to storm the beaches of Normandy during World War II to formulating the European economic recovery strategy, known as the Marshall plan, he was a brilliant military strategist and the architect of peace for war torn nations in Europe. General Marshall dedicated his life to public service as a soldier and statesman. His legacy is well-known in the Sixth Congressional District and the city of Lexington – home to his alma mater, Virginia Military Institute, as well as the Marshall Foundation, which is dedicated to his legacy. The history of the United States, and for that fact, the world, would be a different place if not for his contributions. With the resolution introduced today, Congress will officially recognize these contributions and General Marshall’s place in history.” Background: H. Con. Res. 123 is an honorary designation and will result in no cost to American taxpayers. The George C. Marshall Foundation was established in 1953 and officially opened in 1964 on the post of Virginia Military Institute, General Marshall’s alma mater. Since 1964, the Foundation has devoted its mission to educating the public about the important contributions of General Marshall through its Museum and Research Library. The Museum has five extensive exhibits and houses General Marshall’s 1953 Nobel Peace Prize. The Research Library collects and preserves a large collection of documents pertaining to General Marshall’s life, including domestic and military history of the 20th Century.
03.02.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that the Congressional Art Competition for high school students throughout the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia is now underway: “A walk in the woods, buildings from our past, and scenes from still life – these are just a few pieces of art from the Sixth Congressional District that have greeted visitors to the U.S. Capitol in recent years. Whether it’s drawing, painting, or photography, the Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity for students to showcase their talents. Each year I am impressed by the skills of young artists in the Sixth Congressional District, and I look forward to reviewing this year’s submissions. I encourage all interested students to submit their artwork, and ask others to help pass information about this opportunity along.” Background: The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students who reside in the Sixth Congressional District. The winner of the Sixth District’s competition will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. on Wednesday, April 27, 2016. The format for the Sixth District’s Congressional Art Competition is as follows: • Students or instructors may deliver their artwork in-person to one of Congressman Goodlatte’s Sixth District offices located in Roanoke, Lynchburg, Staunton, and Harrisonburg. • Students or instructors may also arrange for a member of Congressman Goodlatte's district staff to pick up the artwork at a designated location. • Students or instructors may take a digital photograph(s) of the artwork and send it via e-mail to Michael Ambrose at Michael.Ambrose@mail.house.gov. To review the official rules and guidelines for the 2016 Congressional Art Competition and access the student release form, please visit Goodlatte.House.Gov.
03.02.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson on his department’s policy that allowed three unlawful, criminal immigrants charged with drunk driving go free. On February 24, 2016, Esmid Valentine Pedraza was arrested in San Francisco, California, for the murder of Stacey Aguilar. Prior to allegedly committing the murder, Pedraza was reportedly arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and placed in removal proceedings in August 2013 after Pedraza’s conviction for DUI in Alameda County, California. Although ICE could have continued to detain him, ICE released him back onto the streets after he posted bond. On February 7, 2016, Jose Munoz Aguilar, who is reportedly in the U.S. illegally, was arrested by police in Louisville, Kentucky, for drunk driving and colliding with a car occupied by Chelsea Hogue and Meghan Lake, causing injuries to both women. Chelsea Hogue is now in a coma. Although Jose Aguilar was transferred to ICE custody, he was promptly released because he didn’t meet the Obama Administration’s enforcement priorities. On January 31, 2016, Eswin Mejia, a Honduran national believed to be in the United States illegally, was drag racing in Omaha, Nebraska, with a blood alcohol level more than three times the legal limit. He struck 21-year-old Sarah Root’s vehicle from behind and she was killed. Mejia was charged with felony motor vehicle homicide and was released after posting bail. Although state authorities reportedly contacted ICE several times and requested the agency take custody of him prior to his release from state custody, ICE refused. He is now a fugitive from justice. In the Chairmen’s letter to Secretary Johnson, they declare that the “decisions by ICE to release these dangerous criminal aliens, all of whom are apparently illegally present in the United States and are clearly threats to public safety, are a complete abandonment of ICE’s law enforcement mission.” They press Secretary Johnson for information about the aliens’ criminal histories and encounters with law enforcement. Below is the text of the Chairmen’s letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. A copy of the letter is available here. March 2, 2016 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: Once again, we write to you with grave concerns regarding the irresponsible policy of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) to refuse to take custody of removable aliens who pose a clear threat to the safety of the American public. You expressly authorized this policy in your memorandum of November 20, 2014, titled, “Policies for the Apprehension, Detention and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants.” Under that memorandum, ICE may refuse to take custody of dangerous aliens from state and local law enforcement agencies when such aliens exhibit criminal behavior, but have not been convicted of a felony and most misdemeanors. To be clear, ICE has the lawful authority to arrest and detain any alien for whom there is reasonable cause to believe that the person is present in the United States unlawfully. Their mere presence in the United States is cause for arrest. Moreover, detained individuals are not eligible for release from ICE custody unless they demonstrate that they are not a danger to persons or property and are not a flight risk. According to ICE, the agency’s “primary mission is to promote homeland security and public safety through the criminal and civil enforcement of federal laws governing border control, customs, trade and immigration.” If that truly is the mission of ICE, it is inconceivable that you would direct the agency to abort that mission by refusing to arrest dangerous foreign nationals or release them after taking custody, despite the agency’s awareness of that danger. Such a policy can only be described as reckless. Because of this policy, Esmid Valentine Pedraza was reportedly arrested by ICE and placed in removal proceedings in August 2013 after Pedraza’s conviction for DUI in Alameda County, California. Despite the fact that Pedraza is in the United States illegally and his criminal conviction made him an enforcement priority under your written policy, ICE released him on a $2,500 bond. On February 24, 2016, Pedraza was arrested in San Francisco, California for the murder of Stacey Aguilar. According to ICE, Pedraza “had already been on a Priority 2 list for recent illegal entrants,” and reportedly ICE filed a request for notification with the Alameda County Jail, requesting to be notified if Pedraza is released, so that ICE can arrange to take him into custody to pursue “possible follow-up immigration enforcement action.” It is outrageous that ICE would arrest Pedraza as an enforcement priority, but then release him despite a recent conviction for DUI. In addition, ICE’s only response to this terrible crime is to pledge that it will review Pedraza for “possible” enforcement action. Such a response is wholly unacceptable. ICE completely failed its most basic duty to protect the public – and more specifically, Stacey Aguilar – by releasing this criminal alien from custody and thereby enabling him to allegedly commit this heinous crime. It is also because of this policy that ICE reportedly released a dangerous individual, Jose Munoz Aguilar, after taking custody of him pursuant to an ICE detainer. Aguilar was arrested by police in Louisville, Kentucky, on February 7, 2016, after his vehicle collided with a vehicle occupied by Chelsea Hogue and Meghan Lake, causing injuries to both women. Chelsea Hogue is now in a coma. A police report indicates that Aguilar had consumed 10-12 alcoholic drinks and was intoxicated at the time of the crash. Aguilar, who appears to be in this country illegally, was charged with assault, wanton endangerment, and criminal mischief. After bonding out on those charges on February 10, he was transferred to ICE custody pursuant to a detainer. Reports indicate that ICE promptly released Aguilar from custody the following day. According to ICE, Aguilar was released because he “had no significant misdemeanor or felony conviction record,” and as such, “[h]e does not meet ICE enforcement priorities.” In another tragic case, 21-year-old Sarah Root’s vehicle was struck from behind by a vehicle operated by Eswin Mejia on January 31, 2016, while Mejia was allegedly drag racing in Omaha, Nebraska, with a blood alcohol level more than three times the legal limit. Sarah Root was killed and Mejia was charged with felony motor vehicle homicide. Authorities say that Mejia is a Honduran national, who is believed to be in the country illegally. Mejia, who had twice failed to appear in court on state charges, was given a $50,000 bond by a state judge. This allowed him to be released upon posting ten percent of that amount, just $5,000. State authorities reportedly contacted ICE numerous times to notify the agency of Mejia’s elevated flight risk and requested that ICE take custody of him, but ICE denied the request. As a result, after posting bail on February 5, Mejia walked out of jail and absconded. He is now a fugitive from justice. An ICE spokesman stated that ICE did not lodge a detainer on Mejia because his arrest for felony motor vehicle homicide “did not meet ICE’s enforcement priorities.” The decisions by ICE to release these dangerous criminal aliens, all of whom are apparently illegally present in the United States and are clearly threats to public safety, are a complete abandonment of ICE’s law enforcement mission. Notably, your policy authorizes ICE to waive the so-called priority categories and to arrest aliens who are unlawfully present when their removal “would serve an important federal interest.” On January 4, 2016, you stated that the enforcement priorities contained in your November 20, 2014, memorandum “focus [DHS] enforcement resources on convicted criminals and threats to public safety.” From that statement, you recognize that dangerous aliens who are illegally present need not be convicted of a crime to be arrested by ICE. Astonishingly, in all of these tragic cases, ICE determined that it was not an important federal interest to protect the public by detaining these dangerous individuals, so that they will not victimize others. This careless policy is a clear and unmistakable message to the American people that this Administration has decided that their safety and security are far less important than ensuring that illegally present aliens with no regard for the law will remain in this country without any legal consequences whatsoever. For a more thorough understanding of these cases and the decisions by ICE to release these dangerous aliens, please provide the following information not later than March 16, 2016: 1. The alien registration numbers for Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, and Eswin Mejia, their complete alien files (A-file), and all reports or notifications generated by DHS or in its possession about them, whether currently in written or electronic form, including, but not limited to, the Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) Executive Summary, criminal history, immigration history, immigration benefits applications, detainers or requests for notification, I-213(s), and Notice(s) to Appear or other charging documents created to seek their removal from the United States. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, and Eswin Mejia were encountered by a law enforcement agency in the United States, to include criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charge, the jurisdiction where the arrest occurred, the disposition of that charge, the date(s) on which they were released from the custody of that law enforcement agency, and the reason(s) for the release. Please provide the arrest and disposition documentation for each encounter. 3. How did Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, and Eswin Mejia enter the United States? Please explain. a. When did each alien enter? b. Were any of them an unaccompanied minor? Please explain. c. Were any of them issued a Notice to Appear? If so, when was it issued? If so, when were they placed in removal proceedings? What is the status of their cases? 4. Did Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, or Eswin Mejia ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that any of them may have submitted. 5. Have Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, or Eswin Mejia been removed previously? If so, when? 6. Did ICE ever place a detainer on Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, or Eswin Mejia, or request that it be notified of the release from custody of any of them? Please explain. 7. Was Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, or Eswin Mejia a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 8. Does the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) continue to assert that Esmid Valentine Pedraza, Jose Munoz Aguilar, and Eswin Mejia are not enforcement priorities? If DHS has determined that any of them are enforcement priorities, when was the determination made? Please provide the exact enforcement priority category under the Priority Enforcement Program and explain the basis for the determinations. As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926 or Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Charles E. Grassley Chairman Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary Senate Committee on the Judiciary
02.25.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement upon enactment of the Judicial Redress Act: “A strong relationship with our allies in Europe is key to restoring trust between our citizens and law enforcement officials. The Judicial Redress Act increases privacy protections and ensures continued law enforcement cooperation between the United States and Europe. I am pleased this bill was passed in the House and Senate with bipartisan support, and now signed into law.” Background: The Judicial Redress Act of 2015 strengthens partnerships with our allies by giving covered foreign citizens the ability to seek judicial redress in U.S. courts to ensure that their privacy is protected when they give similar rights to U.S. citizens. The bipartisan legislation extends certain privacy protection rights to citizens of European countries, as well as other allied nations, if the federal government willfully discloses information in violation of the Privacy Act. Under the Judicial Redress Act, citizens of designated countries would be extended the core benefits of the Privacy Act, which already applies to Americans, with regard to information shared with U.S. law enforcement authorities, including the ability to bring a lawsuit for the intentional or willful disclosure of personal information. Many countries already extend such protections to U.S. citizens. The House Judiciary Committee approved the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 by voice vote in September of 2015, and the bill was passed in the House of Representatives in October of 2015 by voice vote. Click here to learn more about the legislation.
02.25.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised the enactment of the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (H.R. 644) conference report, which contained a provision permanently banning state taxation of Internet access. The legislation was originally introduced by Congressman Goodlatte, and was passed by the House as a stand-alone bill with overwhelming bipartisan support. Goodlatte: “This bipartisan legislation is about giving every American unfettered access to the Internet, which is the modern gateway to the American dream. Internet access drives innovation and, increasingly, the success of our economy. A permanent ban on Internet access taxes will help prevent unreasonable cost increases that hurt consumers and slow job creation, innovation and the spread of knowledge. “I have worked for over decade to make this permanent ban a reality, and I am pleased that this day has finally come through a bipartisan, bicameral effort. The last thing the American people need is another tax on their doorstep. I thank, and the American people thank, our allies and everyone else who was instrumental along the way to deliver this victory to hardworking Americans.” Background: A moratorium on Internet access taxes was first put in place in 1998 with the passage of the Internet Tax Freedom Act. Since then, Congress has extended it multiple times with enormous bipartisan support. Congressman Goodlatte has long sought to make the ban permanent. The Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act passed the House in December 2015, as part of the House conference report accompanying the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015. Were the existing, temporary moratorium permitted to lapse, the potential tax burden on Americans would have been substantial. It is estimated that Internet access tax rates could be more than twice the average rate of all other goods and services. Low-income households could have paid 10 times as much as high-income households as a share of income. The current moratorium was set to lapse on October 1, 2016. A permanent ban ensures tax free Internet access for the millions of Americans who rely on this unique medium to conduct business, communicate, educate, and grow.
02.24.2016	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 17-10 the Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation Act of 2015 (H.R. 3892), which calls on the State Department to recognize the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization in order to better protect national security. The Muslim Brotherhood, which was founded in Egypt in 1928 by Hassan al-Banna, remains headquartered in Egypt but operates throughout the world. The Muslim Brotherhood’s strategic goal “in America is a kind of grand Jihad in eliminating and destroying the Western civilization from within and ‘sabotaging’ its miserable house by their hands and the hands of the believers so that it is eliminated and God’s religion is made victorious over all other religions.” It has supported Islamist terrorism directly through fundraising and extortion, and has been designated as a terrorist organization by several U.S. allies in the Middle East. H.R. 3892 would have a threefold effect: the Administration would actually have to deny admittance to aliens tied to the Muslim Brotherhood; persons who provide material support to the Muslim Brotherhood would be subject to federal criminal penalties; and the Treasury Department would be able to require U.S. financial institutions possessing or controlling any assets of the Muslim Brotherhood to block all financial transactions involving those assets. Below is a statement from Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, on today’s Committee vote: “The Muslim Brotherhood’s embrace of terrorism and the very real threat it poses to American lives and the national security of the United States make it long overdue for designation. The bill passed by the House Judiciary Committee today calls the State Department to do the right thing and designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization. This will make it less likely that members of the Muslim Brotherhood will be able to enter the United States. I thank Congressman Diaz-Balart for introducing this bill and urge the House of Representatives to consider it immediately.”
02.23.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on the plan issued by the Department of Defense to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility and relocate detainees to the United States: “The Obama Administration thinks enemy combatants at Guantanamo Bay deemed too dangerous for release to foreign countries should be brought to the U.S. This is an untested plan that contains untold implications for Americans’ safety and the United States’ security. “Once these enemy combatants are transferred to the United States, it may be impossible to ever remove them and it is unknown if they could be released into American communities. This Administration has a long history of releasing criminal aliens into our communities instead of deporting them, and these enemy combatants would be the most dangerous yet. This is one of the reasons why these terrorists have been held outside the country. Enemy combatants should remain outside of the United States where they can be detained away from our communities and without needlessly jeopardizing the safety and security of the American people.”
02.23.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today joined 205 members of the United States House and Senate who have signed an amicus brief to support petitioners in the State of West Virginia et al v. EPA litigation pending in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. Goodlatte issued the following statement upon signing the brief: “President Obama’s cap-and-trade agenda was soundly rejected by Congress and the American people. However, despite a lack of constitutional authority, the Obama Administration is once again attempting to circumvent Congress to impose its liberal agenda on the American people. The result? Yet another lawsuit to block the Administration’s power grab in the federal courts. When will President Obama recognize that he cannot use his pen and his phone to go around the Constitution? “The Obama Administration is waging a war against affordable energy. The EPA’s so-called Clean Power Plan will harm job creation and force more of Americans’ hard-earned income to go towards paying the electric bill. For folks in the Sixth District, the cost of these regulations will be paid by anyone who turns on a light switch or plugs in an appliance. Rather than this onslaught of costly regulations, Congress is focused on policies that won’t raise the cost of living for American consumers or hinder the ability for American businesses to compete. “The Obama Administration’s contempt for working families who rely on affordable, domestic energy also puts our nation at risk from the increased influence of nations like Iran, Venezuela, and Nigeria. These regulations will, to use the President’s own words, “necessarily skyrocket” energy costs, putting coal and natural gas producers across the nation out of business. This is the wrong approach.” “It is critical that these job killing regulations be blocked. This bicameral brief being submitted by Republican members of the House and Senate sends a strong message to the White House and its EPA that they must operate within the confines of our nation’s laws, which were passed by representatives who were directly elected by the American people.” Background: The petitioners are challenging the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s “Clean Power Plan” rule, which was recently stayed by the Supreme Court of the United States. Cosigners of the brief in the House and Senate raise serious concerns with the Article I and Article II controversies within the EPA’s contentious “Clean Power Plan” rule. If fully implemented, the rule would compel the states to adopt numerous costly, excessive regulations affecting the generation, transmission and consumption of electricity, as well as establish emissions trading programs and renewable electricity mandates, all of which would negatively impact the American consumer. Congress has granted no authority for the EPA to regulate CO2 emissions from existing power plants, and cosigners of the amicus brief, argue that the EPA’s determination to proceed with the rule is an unconstitutional usurpation of Congress’ legislative power.
02.18.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on President Obama’s intention to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court of the United States left by the late Justice Antonin Scalia during the president’s last year in office: “It does not take a constitutional scholar to understand the influence a Supreme Court justice has on shaping the future of our country. This is a major decision that will shape the legal landscape of our country for decades, and the American people deserve to have a say in this matter. “President Obama has proven time and again throughout his time in office that he is all-too-willing to overstep his authority and ignore the Constitution to achieve his policy goals. I have no confidence that President Obama intends to nominate a justice to the Supreme Court who will uphold the original meaning of the Constitution and the limited powers it grants the executive branch. “I strongly support the Senate Republican leadership’s decision to empower the American people to speak in November on this important decision that will significantly impact the future direction of our country.”
02.13.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement upon the passing of Supreme Court Associate Justice Antonin Scalia: “I am deeply saddened by the unexpected passing of Justice Scalia. His death is a shock to the nation. During his 30 years on the Supreme Court of the United States, Justice Scalia was a steadfast defender of the Constitution, and a firm believer in the principles of our nation’s system of justice. His time on the highest court in the land will be marked by his fairness to those who presented their cases before the justices, and his passion when deciding the most pressing constitutional questions of our time. Justice Scalia was an inspiring figure to those who believed that the principles and values embodied in the United States Constitution set our great nation apart from the rest of the world. My prayers are with the Scalia family as they cope with this sudden loss.”
02.11.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today introduced the Safe Harbor for Reporting Violent Behavior Act of 2016 (H.R. 4532) to protect employers who accurately report violent behavior of past employees to their potential future employers. The bill’s original cosponsors include Rep. Robert Hurt (R-Va.), Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-Va.), House Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), House Education and the Workforce Committee Chairman John Kline (R-Minn.), and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.). To encourage employers to volunteer accurate reports of violence or threats of violence to potential future employers, the Safe Harbor for Reporting Violent Behavior Act would provide a safe harbor from lawsuits to those who, in good faith and based on objectively reasonable suspicion, make such reports. The legislation is directly modeled on bipartisan legislation, signed into law in 2007, which provides a safe harbor from lawsuits to those who report suspicious behavior on public transportation systems. Congressman Goodlatte issued the following statement upon introduction of the legislation: “Employees and employers alike need to know they are safe in the places they work. The time we spend in the workplace is time away from our families and friends, and we all deserve to know that our work environments are safe from those whose behavior may cause us harm in the future. “The need to address this issue was highlighted after the tragedy which occurred on August 26, 2015, when a former employee of Roanoke television station WDBJ killed two employees while they conducted a live interview for the station’s morning broadcast. Various reports indicate the perpetrator had a history of violent behavior with previous employers, but that history was not shared with his future employer, WDBJ. “Employers need to be empowered to make and receive honest reports regarding employees, and prospective employees, who pose a threat of physical injury, including behavior resulting from mental illness, so others will not be needlessly put in danger. “A more truthful dialogue between employers will mean greater protections for hardworking Americans against those who pose a risk of violence in the workplace. This legislation will give employers, employees, and their families peace of mind knowing their workplaces will be safer.”
02.11.2016	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent a letter to thirty-three public colleges and universities requesting a response to a previous letter sent by the House Judiciary Committee in August, urging the schools to update their speech codes. The original letter was distributed to 161 public colleges and universities following a report from the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), which listed public colleges and universities that received a “red light” rating. FIRE classifies a “red light” institution as “one that has at least one policy that both clearly and substantially restricts freedom of speech.” A small number of institutions have not yet responded to the original letter. In the letter today, Chairman Goodlatte urges these institutions to respond in order to assess how Congress may address the free speech issues occurring on the campuses of public colleges and universities. The Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice held a hearing in June of 2015, entitled, “First Amendment Protections on Public College and University Campuses,” which addressed many of the issues brought forth in the report issued by FIRE. Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. Dear Presidents, Chancellors, and Staff, On August 14, 2015, your institution received a letter from the Committee regarding your school’s “red light” rating from of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (“FIRE”). The Committee requested a response to the letter by August 28, 2015. According to FIRE, a “red light” institution “is one that has at least one policy that both clearly and substantially restricts freedom of speech.” FIRE defines a “clear” restriction as a policy that on its face is a threat to free speech and “does not depend on how the policy is applied.” FIRE defines a “substantial” restriction as a policy that is “broadly applicable” to speech on campus. Since August, the Committee has received responses from more than 100 public colleges and universities. Your institution is among the small number of institutions that has not yet responded. The Committee again requests a response on this important matter. Click here to read the previous letter sent by Chairman Goodlatte.
02.10.2016	The murder of a 19-year-old in Massachusetts by at least two teens with suspected ties to the MS-13 gang has prompted questions about how the suspects entered the country. Seventeen-year-olds Jose Vasquez Ardon and Cristian Nunez-Flores are charged with the murder. According to media reports, Nunez-Flores is originally from El Salvador, where his parents remain; raising questions about how the teens were able to enter and remain in the United States. Authorities are still searching for a third suspect in the crime. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are seeking details on the teens’ immigration and criminal histories, as well as whether immigration authorities had any knowledge of the alleged gang ties. The lawmakers are also asking if immigration authorities requested cooperation from state or local law enforcement and what action immigration authorities will take if the request is not honored. Grassley and Goodlatte’s questions follow reports that criminal networks based in Central America are using lax border enforcement and recent surges of unaccompanied minors crossing the Southern border to establish and broaden operations in the United States. Below is the text of Grassley and Goodlatte’s letter to Health and Human Services Secretary Sylvia Burwell and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. A copy of the letter is available here. February 9, 2016 The Honorable Sylvia Burwell Secretary Department of Health and Human Services Washington, DC 20201 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Burwell and Secretary Johnson: On January 2, 2016, Omar Wilfredo Reyes was murdered on a bicycle path in Malden, Massachusetts. Two teenagers and suspected MS-13 gang members, Jose Vasquez Ardon and Cristian Nunez-Flores, have been arrested and charged with Reyes’ murder. Authorities are still searching for a third suspect. Reyes was allegedly lured away from his girlfriend by Ardon on the night of the murder. Surveillance cameras show Reyes walking with the three suspects to the bicycle path. These same cameras later show the three suspects leaving without Reyes. Reyes was found after midnight by police with a fatal gunshot wound to the head. News reports give the impression, but do not clarify, that Jose Vasquez Ardon and Cristian Nunez-Flores are both unaccompanied alien minors. One report notes that Nunez-Flores’ parents are still in his home country of El Salvador. If these suspects were in fact unaccompanied alien minors, this would be yet another example of the Administration wantonly creating a public safety threat by releasing minors that were members of one of the nation’s most violent Central American gangs into the community. Such reckless behavior has already resulted in multiple homicides and other crimes of violence by these criminal street gangs and put the public into serious danger. For a more thorough understanding of the incidents surrounding the shooting, please provide the following information not later than February 26: 1. Did either Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores enter the United States as an unaccompanied minor? Please explain. a. When did each alien enter? b. How were their respective statuses as unaccompanied minors determined? c. How long were they in the custody of a resettlement contractor, if any, before being released to their respective sponsors? d. To whom was each alien released, and were those sponsors interviewed by officials with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) or Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) or contractors with those Departments? Please explain. e. Were either Jose Vasquez Ardon or Christian Nunez-Flores issued a Notice to Appear? If so, did either attend their immigration hearings? If not, were the respective sponsors for each alien held accountable for their failure to appear in immigration court? f. Have the sponsors sought any immigration benefits? 2. Were Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores previously arrested or charged with crimes? Were they convicted? If so, please provide the relevant documentation. 3. Have Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores been previously removed? If so, when? 4. Did U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) ever place a detainer on Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores or request that it be notified of the release from custody of either alien? Please explain. 5. Was Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores a member of, or associated with any criminal gang? Please explain. 6. Was DHS or HHS aware that either Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores was a member of, or associated with a criminal gang? If so, when were DHS and HHS aware? Please explain. 7. What percentage of detainers or requests for notification of release placed by ICE in each of the past five fiscal years has Middlesex County, Massachusetts honored? 8. If a local law enforcement agency declines to honor a detainer or notify ICE when an alien or suspected alien is in its custody, what action will DHS take to ensure that these two aliens are not released from custody and allowed to reoffend? 9. Did either Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that either alien may have submitted. 10. Please provide a complete copy of the alien file for Jose Vasquez Ardon and Cristian Nunez-Flores. 11. Please provide any other information collected or maintained by DHS and HHS regarding either Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores. 12. Does either Jose Vasquez Ardon or Cristian Nunez-Flores meet the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
02.09.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on H.R. 27, the Tax Code Termination Act, which recently gained its 100th cosponsor: “For years in Washington there has been a growing rumble about the need for comprehensive tax reform. And the American people have long asked for a simpler, fairer tax code. The time for tax reform is now. The Tax Code Termination Act provides the push needed to move comprehensive tax reform forward. Now, with over 100 bipartisan cosponsors, it’s clear that there is mounting support to scrap the tax code and start work on a new tax system. “It has become all too clear that the current code is broken beyond repair and cannot be fixed – we must start over. While I have yet to hear an argument for maintaining our current tax code, I hear argument after argument for why we need a new one. Comprehensive tax reform will not happen overnight, but we should not delay taking a first step forward. Setting a date certain for a new tax system will provide a real timeline for action. I urge my colleagues to sign on in support of the Tax Code Termination Act, and provide the spark needed to bring real tax reform across the finish line.” Background: The Tax Code Termination Act (H.R. 27), introduced by Congressman Bob Goodlatte, would sunset the current tax code by December 31, 2019, forcing Congress to approve a new federal tax system by July 4, 2019. While the bill does not recommend one tax system over another, it does outline a framework for a new tax system – one that applies a low rate to all Americans, provides tax relief for working Americans, protects the rights of taxpayers and reduces collection abuses, eliminates the bias against savings and investment, promotes economic growth and job creation, and does not penalize marriage or families.
02.09.2016	Today, President Obama released his proposal for the Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 budget. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in response to the President’s wish list: “Presenting a vision for how best to protect our nation and grow our economy is what a president’s budget is supposed to do, and, on both accounts, President Obama has failed with his proposal today. Like me, the folks in Virginia’s Sixth District are concerned about a lack of control over our borders and threats to our very way of life from hostile groups like ISIS. But his budget once again prioritizes the threat of climate change over winning battles against the enemy and does nothing to strengthen our nation’s border security. “Furthermore, the economy isn’t anywhere close to where it needs to be to get hardworking Americans back to work and help the private sector create new jobs. Instead of common sense policies like repealing Obamacare, enacting a balanced budget amendment, auditing the Federal Reserve, passing the REINS Act, reducing taxes on working Americans, or cutting wasteful government spending, the President has once again doubled down and proposed higher taxes, more regulations, and a bigger government. The past seven years have shown his policies and vision for America have not worked, which is why his budget proposal is dead on arrival in the House of Representatives. “I look forward to working alongside House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price to craft a fiscally responsible budget that reflects the values of this great nation, keeps us safe from terrorist threats, and protects our individual freedoms and liberties.”
02.04.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) announced today that he will host a Veterans’ Resource Fair on Thursday, February 18 in Staunton: “Our veterans have stood guard on distant battlefields and here at home to protect the liberties at the core of the United States. Because of this, we owe them a debt of gratitude and our deepest respect. That’s why I am hosting a Veterans’ Resource Fair to help better connect veterans to the many programs and services available in our region. The event will feature a variety of education, health care, employment, and housing resources – just to name a few – for local veterans. It is free of charge and anyone with an interest in veterans’ issues is encouraged to attend. The Sixth District of Virginia is home to thousands veterans of all ages who have served in numerous capacities, and I hope these men and women will find this event to be a helpful resource for them.” WHEN: Thursday, February 18 from 10AM – 12:00PM WHERE: Thomas D. Howie Memorial Armory Gypsy Hill Park 500 Thornrose Avenue Staunton, Virginia 24401 NOTE: Organizations or businesses wishing to host a table at the Veterans’ Resource Fair should call 540-857-2672. All media questions should be directed to Beth Breeding at beth.breeding@mail.house.gov or 202-225-5431. More information can be found at Goodlatte.House.Gov.
02.03.2016	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote a resolution authorizing a specialized task force to examine the historic increase in presidential power and executive overreach, which is distorting the fundamental system of checks and balances the framers enshrined in our nation’s founding document, the Constitution. The Task Force on Executive Overreach is authorized for six months and will study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on today’s vote authorizing the task force: “The Constitution is clear: it is the role of Congress to make all laws, the Judiciary to interpret the laws, and the President to enforce the laws. This system was wisely set in place by our country’s framers over 200 years ago because they knew first hand that the concentration of power in the same hands was a threat to individual liberty and the rule of law. In recent decades, however, presidents of both parties have aggrandized their power and usurped Congress to legislate from the Oval Office. This is not a partisan issue; it’s an American issue and touches the very core of our system of government. “The House Judiciary Committee’s Task Force on Executive Overreach will study this troubling trend and also look for solutions to prevent the executive branch from exceeding its constitutional authority. The separation of powers and its checks and balances are designed to protect individual liberty and we must ensure that it is preserved for future generations. Much work is to be done on this issue and I look forward to the task force’s upcoming hearings.” Representative Steve King (R-Iowa) will chair the task force and Republican members of the task force are Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.). Chairman Goodlatte will serve as an ex officio member of the task force. Representative Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) will serve as the Ranking Member of the task force and Democratic members of the task force are Representatives Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Hank Johnson (D-Ga.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Ted Deutch (D-Fla.), Cedric Richmond (D-La.), and Scott Peters (D-Calif.). Ranking Member Conyers will serve as an ex officio member of the task force. Read Chairman Goodlatte’s op-ed in USA Today on the task force here.
02.03.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, in the House of Representatives last evening: “Much like how bad behavior should not be rewarded, it also should not be ignored. But the Obama Administration is giving Iran a free pass. It is irresponsible to lift sanctions on foreign financial institutions whose actions have knowingly resulted in support for terrorists or have contributed to Iran’s ballistic missile program. Financial institutions that have assisted in transactions that support terrorism are not innocent bystanders, and the bill passed by the House prohibits sanctions relief for these institutions in question. “Iran is a leading state sponsor of terror and it’s clear that they have no intention of upholding even the weak limits of the Iran Nuclear Agreement negotiated by the Obama Administration. There is nothing more important to the future than protecting the United States from the threats of hostile nations. Americans on all ends of the political spectrum have a shared goal of ensuring the U.S. remains the most powerful nation in the world and safe from the threats of terror. We cannot afford to jeopardize that by handing out more free passes.”
02.02.2016	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) voted in support of a measure to override President Obama’s veto of the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which repeals the pillars of the Affordable Care and Patient Protection Act, known as Obamacare, and defunds Planned Parenthood. However, this measure failed to garner the 2/3 majority needed to override a veto. Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement: “With this veto, President Obama has sent a message loud and clear: patient choice is not a priority. Despite the millions of Americans who have lost their health care coverage or are facing outrageous insurance premiums, his veto is reflective of a missed opportunity to work with Congress to enact health care solutions that would benefit the American people. “But this fight is not over. It’s time for a real, bipartisan conversation in Congress that focuses on strategies that help Americans access the best quality health care at the least cost. The government should foster increased access to quality care based on individual choice, not take away choices from people on the grounds that government knows best. The hardworking men and women footing the bill for this flawed law cannot afford more missed opportunities, and I will continue to support health care reform that puts the American people first.”
01.28.2016	House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas.), House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Ed Royce (R-Calif.), and Rep. Candice Miller (R-Mich.), the author of The Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015, today sent a letter to President Obama regarding his unilateral changes to the law allowing certain people who have traveled to nations of terrorism-related concern (i.e. Iran, Iraq, Sudan, and Syria) to travel to the United States visa-free. In the letter, the Members affirm that the Obama Administration’s exemptions for journalists, humanitarian workers, and people doing business in Iraq and Iran are contrary to the plain language in the law and were expressly rejected by Congress during negotiations with administration officials. The Members demand that the Administration provide detailed information to Congress on the individuals who are granted waivers to come to the U.S. through the Visa Waiver Program. They also call on the President to provide any documentation regarding the legal basis of authority he believes he is relying on to exempt these people from the law. The signed letter is available HERE. The text of the letter follows: January 28, 2016 President Barack Obama 1600 Pennsylvania Ave Washington, DC Dear Mr. President: We write regarding your Administration’s flawed and deeply troubling implementation of the “Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015.” As you know, this legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 407-19 and became law as part of the year-end spending bill you signed on December 18, 2015. In part, the Act provided that nationals of Visa Waiver Program (VWP) countries who have traveled to certain nations of terrorism-related concern – including Syria, Iraq, Iran, and Sudan –after March 1, 2011, would not be eligible for VWP entrance to the United States and would instead have to apply through the regular visa process. On Thursday, January 21, 2016, Secretary Jeh Johnson and Secretary John Kerry announced their first steps towards implementation of this important Act. Specifically, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), at the insistence of the Department of State (DoS), will now consider waivers for individuals who have traveled to nations of terrorism-related concern if the individual’s travel fits into certain broad categories. These categories include humanitarian work, journalism, and even travel to Iran or Iraq for “legitimate business-related purposes.” These exemptions from the travel restrictions were not provided for in the law, are contrary to congressional intent, and are in breach of the agreement we reached with members of your Administration. These exemptions are contrary to the plain language of the statute. The national security and law enforcement exceptions were principally designed to allow for the continued surveillance and investigation of individuals of concern. However, we are deeply troubled because the exemptions announced by the Administration were discussed, at length, during negotiations and were explicitly rejected by Members of Congress. Administration officials from the DoS, DHS, the Executive Office of the President, as well as Congressional staff from both parties, were intricately involved in the negotiation of this legislation. As a result, revisions were made to the bill, and you and your Administration publicly supported the final product. Such participation and support indicated you would implement the law as enacted, consistent with our agreement. The January 21 implementation announcement clearly indicates that you have chosen not to do so. In fact, your Administration has chosen to read the narrow national security and law enforcement exceptions in such a broad way that it renders both the terms “national security” and “law enforcement” virtually meaningless. These actions are inappropriate and violate not only the agreement we reached but the law itself. We are requesting certain information regarding the use of the non-statutory exemptions your Administration has created. Specifically, Section 1187(a)(12)(E) of title 8, United States Code, requires a report from the Secretary of Homeland Security regarding certain waivers to the application of the Act, including the waiver authority DHS and DoS claim to be exercising in the creation of these new exemption categories. To adequately fulfill the responsibilities of this reporting requirement, we expect DHS to provide on a monthly basis, a detailed description of each and every waiver granted under 1187(a)(12)(E). To be clear, a simple reporting of the number of waivers granted during a calendar or fiscal year is not acceptable and contrary to Congressional intent. We expect, at a minimum, the name and nationality of the foreign traveler, the explicit, detailed national security or law enforcement justification for granting the waiver, the number of individuals seeking ESTA authorizations who fall into each of the categories created by Secretary Johnson and Secretary Kerry, the number of individuals in each category for whom the waiver was used, and the number of individuals in each category for whom the waiver authority was not used. Also, please provide us no later than February 12, 2016, any and all documentation, including memoranda and emails, regarding the legal basis of authority for use of such exemption categories under the guise of “national security.” We are disappointed in your Administration’s failure to implement the “Visa Wavier Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Protection Act of 2015” as enacted into law. Had your Administration complied in good faith with the bipartisan agreement we reached, we would not be writing you today. Moreover, we are reviewing our options to ensure this law is implemented as it was enacted by Congress. The bill was a joint effort designed to strengthen our national security. We remain troubled that assurances of an agreement reached between Congress and your Administration do not seem to ensure implementation as intended pursuant to such agreement. Sincerely, KEVIN McCARTHY MICHAEL T. McCAUL BOB GOODLATTE EDWARD R. ROYCE CANDICE S. MILLER cc: Secretary of State John Kerry cc: Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh C. Johnson
01.27.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today announcing his nomination of several students from the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to our nation’s service academies as members of the graduating Class of 2020: “It is my honor to nominate these young men and women to compete for an appointment to our nation’s service academies. The service academies provide students with the opportunity to receive a quality educational experience and training to become the leaders of their generation. Upon appointment, I am confident that they will serve the United States with distinction. Folks in the Sixth District can be proud of these nominees. I wish them the best and thank them for their willingness to serve their country.” A full list of nominees and photos can be found below: Sixth District Nominations for the Class of 2020 U.S. Air Force Academy Eva J. Bogdewic, daughter of CPT. Daniel Bogdewic and Dr. Lisa Oakley-Bogdewic, is a senior at Randolph-Macon Academy and a resident of Rileyville. Michael P. Bopp, son of Lucy Hurlbut and John Bopp, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. Gabrielle R. McClelland, daughter of Robert and Kristi McClelland, is a senior at Roanoke Catholic School and a resident of Blue Ridge. David A. Miller, son of David and Camella Miller, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. Cassidy S. Olson, daughter of Todd and Janissa Olson, is a senior at Liberty Christian Academy and a resident of Forest. Brian P. Sakalas, son of John and Shannon Sakalas, is a senior at Roanoke Catholic School and a resident of Vinton. Asher D. Weisman, son of David and Elizabeth Weisman, is a senior at Patrick Henry High School and a resident of Roanoke. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Eva J. Bogdewic, daughter of CPT. Daniel Bogdewic and Dr. Lisa Oakley-Bogdewic, is a senior at Randolph-Macon Academy and a resident of Rileyville. Jayme N. Goode, daughter of William and Holly Goode, is a senior at Warren County High School and a resident of Linden. Timothy D. Melancon, son of Tim and Deb Melancon, is a senior at Liberty University Online Academy and a resident of Linden. James L. Monroe, son of Matthew Williams and Julie Ann Monroe, is a senior at Fishburne Military School and a resident of Lexington. Luke M.G. Mosher, son of Steven and Vera Mosher, is a senior at Millbrook High School and a resident of White Post. U.S. Military Academy at West Point Charlotte O.L. Hereford, daughter of Dr. Lee and Alison Hereford, is a graduate of Stuart Hall School and a student at Washington & Lee University. She is a resident of Staunton. James L. Monroe, son of Matthew Williams and Julie Ann Monroe, is a senior at Fishburne Military School and a resident of Lexington. Seth B. Ranowsky, son of Jeff and Susan Ranowsky, is a senior at Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Thai C. Wright, son of David and Leasa Wright, is a graduate of Wilson Memorial High School and a student at West Point Preparatory School. He is a resident of Fishersville. U.S. Naval Academy Sean T. Bell, son of Tamicka Gaynor-Bell, is a senior at Randolph-Macon Academy and a resident of Front Royal. Samuel A. Cook, son of Aaron and Paula Cook, is a senior at Turner Ashby High School and a resident of Dayton. Nicholas O. Elder, son of Alan and Diane Elder, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. Floyd J. Garner, Jr., son of Floyd and Tabytha Garner, is a senior at William Fleming High School and a resident of Roanoke. Jayme N. Goode, daughter of William and Holly Goode, is a senior at Warren County High School and a resident of Linden. Spencer D. Hough, son of Col. David and Jennifer Hough, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. Timothy D. Melancon, son of Tim and Deb Melancon, is a senior at Liberty University Online Academy and a resident of Linden. Luke M.G. Mosher, son of Steven and Vera Mosher, is a senior at Millbrook High School and a resident of White Post. Ixel S. Ochoa, daughter of Edgar Ochoa, is a graduate of Randolph-Macon Academy and a student at the Naval Academy Foundation. She is a resident of Front Royal. Madeline C. Pruzan, daughter of Michael Pruzan and Katherine Wimmer, is a senior at William Byrd High School and a resident of Roanoke. Paul R. Schaufert, son of Linda Schaufert, is a senior at Jefferson Forest High School and a resident of Forest. Ashley B. Sweet, daughter of Dr. Jon and Mary Beth Sweet, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke.
01.25.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Associated Press investigation finding that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services lowered its safety standards during the border surge and placed unaccompanied alien minors in sponsors’ homes where some were sexually assaulted, starved, or forced to work with little or no pay. “The ongoing surge at the southwest border is a crisis of President Obama’s own making and places innocent children’s lives at risk. The Obama Administration’s policy of non-enforcement has encouraged these children to take the long and perilous journey to the U.S. in the first place, and now these children also face very dangerous situations once they arrive as a result of the Obama Administration’s lack of due diligence. Because the Administration took shortcuts in the vetting process, several children have been delivered into the hands of criminals and abusers and have faced horrific situations. This is tragic and unacceptable. “Since President Obama has refused to take the steps necessary to quell the border crisis, the House Judiciary Committee has approved several pieces of legislation that address the underlying issues causing the surge. One bill, the Protection of Children Act, enhances the safety of unaccompanied minors crossing the border by ensuring they are not delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. The House must take up this legislation to protect these children from both criminals and the Administration’s recklessness. Additionally, the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee will further examine this ongoing problem next week at a hearing on the border surge.” Background: The House Judiciary Committee obtained a document from a source that shows the Obama Administration’s lax immigration policies are fueling the crisis at our borders. From July 7, 2015 – September 30, 2015, Customs and Border Protection agents interviewed 345 family units apprehended at the border. Of those interviewed, nearly 70% said that they heard that if they came to the U.S. they would be released and/or receive some sort of immigration relief, such as asylum. Additionally, nearly 60% said it was the U.S. immigration policies that influenced their decision to come here. As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s efforts to address the ongoing border surge, it approved the Protection of Children Act (H.R. 1149) in March 2015. This bill, authored by Rep. John Carter (R-Texas), ensures that unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. A summary of the Protection of Children Act can be found here.
01.22.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the March for Life held today on the National Mall in remembrance of the anniversary of the 1973 Supreme Court ruling in the infamous case of Roe v. Wade, which legalized abortion in the United States: “Not even the threat of record breaking snowfall can stop the March for Life. Life is a right that I am proud to stand in strong support of and one that must be protected. This fundamental human right to be born into the world is what thousands of Americans gather to honor today. We must speak for those who cannot speak for themselves. In addition to leading the House Judiciary Committee’s investigation into the alleged atrocities committed by Planned Parenthood, I have strongly supported efforts by Congress to advance legislation aimed at protecting life, including measures to prevent taxpayer funding for abortion and ban abortions in the United States after 20 weeks post conception – the point at which scientific evidence shows the unborn can experience great suffering. “As thousands of people from across the country come to Washington to honor life at the annual March for Life, it is an appropriate time to reflect on the positive impacts these bills will have when enacted into law. As a country, we must renew our commitment to protecting life and encouraging a society that supports it. As a father and a grandfather, I know that the gift of life is one that must be fiercely protected, and I will continue to fight for the rights of the unborn. I stand in solidarity with those who march.” Additional Info: Read more about Congressman Goodlatte’s work to protect the right to life in his weekly column, Standing up for Life.
01.21.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement after the Obama Administration announced that it will apply the limited law enforcement waiver authority in the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 to allow entire categories of dual citizens and people who have traveled to Syria, Iraq, Iran, and Sudan to come to the U.S. without obtaining a visa: “President Obama and his administration’s decision to abuse their limited waiver authority and allow scores of people who have traveled to or are dual nationals of countries like Iraq and Syria flies in the face of reason and congressional intent. It’s estimated that 5,000 Westerners – many of whom live in countries that participate in the Visa Waiver Program – have journeyed to Syria and Iraq to fight with terrorist groups like ISIS. Congress approved targeted, bipartisan legislation – supported by the White House – that takes reasonable steps to close gaping security holes in the Visa Waiver Program and enhance Americans’ safety. However, the Obama Administration is essentially rewriting the law by blowing wide open a small window of discretion that Congress gave it for law enforcement and national security reasons. In fact, the categories of people that the Obama Administration is exempting from the law were expressly rejected by Congress. This needlessly compromises our national security and the safety of the American people. “Just this week the Department of Homeland Security released a report that over 150,000 Visa Waiver Program visitors overstayed their allotted time here, and thousands of overstayers came from countries associated with terrorism, such as Iran, Sudan, and Yemen. Terrorism has and continues to be a very real threat to our country and it’s unconscionable that the President and his administration continue to weaken the enforcement of our immigration and national security laws.” Background: The Fiscal Year 2016 omnibus appropriations bill contained the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 158), a bill to strengthen the security of the visa waiver program in order to enhance national security and Americans’ safety. Below are key components of this law: The Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 takes reasonable, commonsense steps to protect national security. It requires dual nationals and individuals who have traveled since March 1, 2011 to certain countries of concern and State Sponsors of Terrorism – including Syria, Iraq, Iran, and Sudan – to obtain a visa before coming to the United States. This simply means that these folks will have to apply for a visa just like citizens of most nations already have to do in order to come to the United States. The Secretary of Homeland Security is able to waive these provisions for targeted law enforcement or national security purposes. Additionally, it allows the Secretary of State to designate additional countries of concern so that travelers to these countries and those who hold dual citizenship in these countries also have to obtain visas before coming to the United States. For example, the Secretary could use this authority if he/she determines that the country has a significant presence of a foreign terrorist organization or that the country is a safe haven for terrorists. It contains a number of other security enhancements to the VWP to prevent the program from being used as a fast-track for terrorists to enter the United States.
01.20.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after Senate Democrats rejected the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038): “It’s inexcusable that Senate Democrats today rejected a commonsense, targeted bill that would protect the American people from a very real threat posed by ISIS. ISIS terrorists have vowed to use the refugee system to enter Western countries and top national security officials within the Obama Administration have repeatedly warned that the U.S. government does not have the resources and dramatically lacks the information needed to fully vet refugees from Syria. This is precisely why the House voted to hit pause on the President’s plan to usher in thousands of Syrian and Iraqi refugees. Why are Senate Democrats and President Obama so opposed to requiring comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States? What do they have to hide from the American people by not even allowing this important and popular bill to be debated and voted on the floor of the Senate? “The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe. The House Judiciary Committee continues to work on several additional bills to strengthen our immigration programs and enhance national security, including stronger vetting of visa applicants and all refugees. We plan to introduce these bills over the coming weeks.” Background: In November 2015, the House of Representatives approved by a vote of 289-137 the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038). This bill requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. The White House threatened to veto this legislation. Earlier this month, two refugees from Iraq were arrested for allegedly attempting to provide material support to ISIS and for lying to U.S. immigration officials about their alleged ties to terrorist organizations. Congressman Goodlatte’s statement on these arrests can be found here.
01.20.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security’s “Entry/Exit Overstay Report for Fiscal Year 2015”, which looked at only two of the many categories of temporary visitors to the U.S. and found that more than 500,000 temporary visitors overstayed their visas last year: “It’s estimated that 30 to 40 percent of unlawful immigrants came to the U.S. legally but overstayed their visas. To strengthen national security and the integrity of our immigration system, Congress mandated a biometric entry/exit system nearly 20 years ago but the Department of Homeland Security -- under multiple Administrations -- has failed to fully implement it. This is unacceptable and needlessly jeopardizes Americans’ lives and national security. “The Department of Homeland Security’s report is not comprehensive because it uses biographic data, rather than biometric data, to determine overstay rates and it only looks at two categories of temporary visitors. There is no way to truly determine how many people overstayed their visas without a biometric exit system. That said, many of the report’s findings are alarming: more than half a million visitors overstayed their visas, over 150,000 Visa Waiver Program visitors overstayed their allotted time here, and thousands of overstayers came from countries associated with terrorism, such as Iran, Sudan, and Yemen. We know that several of the 9/11 terrorists overstayed their visas and it is mind boggling that the Administration has still not addressed this issue even though it has the legal tools to do so. This report should be a wakeup call for the Administration to take steps to fully implement the law.”
01.19.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision to take up a case challenging President Obama’s executive actions on immigration: “President Obama stated 22 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own yet he did so anyway. President Obama’s decision to ignore the limits placed on his power and act unilaterally to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws threatens the separation of powers and its checks and balances. So far, the federal courts have prevented President Obama’s executive actions from being implemented and I am hopeful that the Supreme Court will do the same. Such lawlessness must be stopped so that we protect the Constitution and the intent of the Founding Fathers that the legislative branch, which reflects the will of and is accountable to the American people, makes the laws, not the President.” Background: In December 2014, numerous states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte and others signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015 a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Following this decision, Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of Texas v. United States. On November 10, 2015, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented.
01.15.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the announcement today that the U.S. Department of the Interior will launch a comprehensive review of the federal coal program and suspend issuing new coal leases on federal land: “From the start this Administration has made their intention to regulate coal out of business no secret. Suspending new coal leases on federal lands is a continuation of the anti-coal policies that have decimated the coal industry in our region. The ripple effect of these policies can be felt outside of the coal fields, including railroad jobs transporting coal, manufacturing, and other industries dependent on affordable, reliable electricity. By rejecting one of America’s most abundant natural resources, today’s actions are representative of more of the same lost energy opportunities. I will continue to support energy policies that protect American jobs and support U.S. energy production – both above and below ground.”
01.12.2016	As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, today the Committee approved by voice vote the Second Chance Reauthorization Act of 2015 (H.R. 3406), a bill that helps prisoners who have completed their sentences successfully return to society, thereby enhancing public safety. This legislation, authored by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.) and Congressman Danny Davis (D-Ill.), builds on the success of the original Second Chance Act of 2008 and continues to authorize funding for both public and private entities to evaluate and improve reentry programming, including academic and vocational education for offenders in prison, jails and juvenile facilities. This legislation also includes important accountability measures and eliminates programs that have not been used. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement on today’s approval: “The Second Chance Reauthorization Act is a critical component of prison and reentry reform. Statistics show that more than 90% of federal prisoners will eventually be released. We must enact polices that enhance public safety by helping prisoners successfully reintegrate into society and restore their lives. By streamlining and strengthening Second Chance grants, we will help the many men, women, and youth leaving prison successfully return home so that they can be contributing members of our communities rather than repeat offenders. I thank Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner for his work on this important legislation that will make our streets safer.” Background: Congress passed the Second Chance Act with strong bipartisan support and President George W. Bush signed it into law in 2008. This legislation provides grant funding to public and private entities, including non-profit faith and community-based organizations, to develop support programs such as drug treatment, housing, job training, medical care, and education. More than 100,000 men, women, and youth returning home from prisons, jails, and juvenile facilities have benefited from Second Chance grants providing career training, mentoring, family-based substance abuse treatment, and other evidence-based reentry programs. Additionally, a report from the National Reentry Resource Center highlights how numerous states have experienced drastic reductions in statewide recidivism rates as a result of robust reentry services made possible in part through Second Chance Act funding. Learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative here.
01.12.2016	As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, today the Committee approved by voice vote the Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act of 2015 (H.R. 1854). This bipartisan, bicameral bill – authored by Congressmen Doug Collins (R-Ga.) and Bobby Scott (D-Va.) – reauthorizes and updates the Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act, which was signed into law by President George W. Bush in 2004. Each year, more than two million people with serious mental illnesses are booked into jails, as well as millions more coping with less serious mental illnesses. In order to better treat those with mental health conditions, the Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act of 2015 promotes public safety and community health by facilitating collaboration among the criminal justice, juvenile justice, mental health treatment, and substance abuse systems to ensure those with mental illness receive the treatment and help they need. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released the following statement: “As we seek to reform our nation’s criminal justice system, it’s important that we improve the way the mentally ill are treated while in jail and the Comprehensive Justice and Mental Health Act of 2015 does just that. This bill ensures that law enforcement officers are equipped to interact with the mentally ill and also provides those with mental health conditions access to the care and treatment they need. The resources provided in this bill will go a long way towards saving lives, stewarding taxpayer dollars, and enhancing public safety. I thank Congressmen Collins and Scott for their work on this legislation.” Key Components of H.R. 1854: Provides much-needed resources to those with mental health conditions: The bill continues support for mental health courts and crisis intervention teams, which save lives and money. It also increases focus on corrections-based programs, like transitional services that reduce recidivism rates and screening practices that identify inmates with mental health conditions. Increases accountability: The bill includes new grant accountability measures and emphasizes the use of evidence-based practices that have been proven effective through empirical evidence. Helps law enforcement better interact with the mentally ill: The bill supports the development of curricula for police academies and orientations. It also supports the development of programs to train federal law enforcement officers in how to respond appropriately to incidents involving a person with a mental health condition. Helps veterans suffering from mental health conditions: The bill authorizes investments in veterans treatment courts, which serve arrested veterans who suffer from PTSD, substance addiction, and other mental health conditions. Empowers state and local efforts: The bill supports state and local efforts to identify people with mental health conditions at each point in the criminal justice system in order to appropriately direct them to mental health services. It also gives local officials greater control over program participation eligibility.
01.12.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today announced the creation of a Task Force on Executive Overreach to examine the historic breakdown of the separation of powers and checks and balances that has led to the unprecedented increase in presidential power and executive overreach. The House Judiciary Committee plans to mark up a resolution to authorize the task force for six months in the coming weeks. It will be part of the task force’s mission to study the impact the increase in presidential and executive branch power has had on the ability of Congress to conduct oversight of the executive branch, the lack of transparency that furthers unchecked executive power, and the constitutional requirement of the President to faithfully execute the law. Additionally, the task force will review the tools at the disposal of the Congress to restore the proper balance of powers and hold the executive branch accountable. It will also make recommendations where there are deficiencies, including legislative solutions. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement on the creation of the task force: “The Constitution is clear: it is the role of Congress to make all laws, the Judiciary to interpret the laws, and the President to enforce the laws. This system was wisely set in place by our country’s framers over 200 years ago because they knew first hand that the concentration of power in the same hands was a threat to individual liberty and the rule of law. In recent decades, however, presidents of both parties have aggrandized their power and usurped Congress to legislate from the Oval Office. This is not a Republican or Democratic issue; it’s an American issue and touches the very core of our system of government. “The House Judiciary Committee’s Task Force on Executive Overreach will study this troubling trend and also look for solutions to prevent the executive branch from exceeding its constitutional authority. The separation of powers and its checks and balances are designed to protect individual liberty and we must ensure that it is preserved for future generations.” Congressman Steve King (R-Iowa) will chair the task force and Republican members of the task force are Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.). Chairman Goodlatte will serve as an ex officio member of the task force.
01.12.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following President Barack Obama’s final State of the Union address: “What a missed opportunity. President Obama is giving us more rhetoric while House Republicans are working to produce results for the American people. After seven years and little substance, what we heard tonight is more of the same lip service that we’ve come to expect from President Obama. Our country has changed a great deal during his presidency, but the string of broken promises from the White House has remained constant. “The American people are tired of more empty promises that increase the debt, restrict our freedom and liberties, and go around the Constitution to get it done. With his rhetoric tonight, the President once again chose to attack hardworking, law abiding Americans, and catered to his liberal special interests. As he uses his pen and phone to implement his policies, America has heard enough. The people of the Sixth District, like me, are tired of this President's failed policies, runaway debt and deficits, and attacks on our rights. “Thankfully the House of Representatives is focused on the priorities of the Commonwealth and the nation. Whether it is fixing the broken VA system to take care of those brave veterans who fought to protect our freedoms, or standing up to the President’s plans to chip away at our Second Amendment liberties, I will do what my constituents sent me here to do, and that is to fight for their principles and to uphold the Constitution. “Instead of empty words, we need policies that improve the lives of American families and empower them to make their own decisions. It’s time President Obama enforces our nation’s laws, protects the rights and liberties enshrined in our Constitution, and works with Congress to bolster our national security, strengthen our immigration system, and create an economy of opportunity. Congress is working to cut Washington’s red tape in order to grow our economy, keep Americans safe, and defend our constitutional rights. I urge President Obama to abandon the rhetoric we heard tonight and join us in focusing on real results.”
01.11.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today sent letters to Attorney General Loretta Lynch and Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson urging them to send the message that our laws will be enforced to the surge of minors and families making the dangerous journey to the United States. Earlier this month, Secretary Johnson announced that the Department of Homeland Security had arrested 121 unlawful immigrants who have been ordered removed and came to the U.S. during the ongoing border surge. Although Secretary Johnson stated that these unlawful immigrants have exhausted all legal remedies to avoid removal from the U.S., a lone member of the Board of Immigration Appeals halted the deportation of 12 people arrested in the sweep. In the letters, Chairman Goodlatte calls on DHS Secretary Johnson to use his legal authority to refer these cases to the Attorney General for review, and requests that Attorney General Lynch use her authority to review and overturn the Board of Immigration Appeals’ improper decisions. The text of the letter to Attorney General Lynch can be found here and the letter to DHS Secretary Johnson can be found here. Additional Background: Over the past several years, hundreds of thousands of unaccompanied alien minors and family units have arrived at the U.S.-Mexico border seeking to live in the United States. The House Judiciary Committee obtained a document from a source that shows the Obama Administration’s lax immigration policies are fueling the crisis at our borders. From July 7, 2015 – September 30, 2015, Customs and Border Protection agents interviewed 345 family units apprehended at the border. Of those interviewed, nearly 70% said that they heard that if they came to the U.S. they would be released and/or receive some sort of immigration relief, such as asylum. Additionally, nearly 60% said it was the U.S. immigration policies that influenced their decision to come here. The House Judiciary Committee has approved several pieces of legislation that address the root causes of the border surge: The “Protection of Children Act of 2015,” authored by Rep. John Carter (R-Texas), ensures unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. The “Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act of 2015,” authored by Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), closes loopholes in current law that encourage illegal immigration, such as weak standards for asylum claims that enable the Obama Administration’s rubberstamping of fraudulent applications and policies, and effectively ends “catch and release.” The “Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act,” authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), ensures that the President of the United States can’t shut down immigration enforcement unilaterally by granting states and localities specific congressional authorization to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law. Additionally, sanctuary cities will be prohibited from receiving law enforcement grants. It also strengthens national security and protects American communities by improving visa security, facilitating the removal of dangerous criminal aliens, and barring terrorists from entering and remaining in the United States.
01.08.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the arrest of two refugees from Iraq for allegedly attempting to provide material support to ISIS and for lying to U.S. immigration officials about their alleged ties to terrorist organizations: “I commend our nation’s law enforcement for identifying and apprehending these terrorists and protecting the American people from the harm they could have caused. The fact that these terrorists entered the United States through the refugee system once again underscores the need to continually reassess the security procedures used to vet foreign nationals seeking to come here. Terrorists adapt and evolve and we must also in order to thwart their evil plots. “Additionally, these arrests should cause President Obama to hit pause on his naïve plan to usher in thousands of refugees from Iraq and Syria over the coming year. The House passed a targeted bill to require comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States, yet the President issued a veto threat of this commonsense legislation. “The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe. The House Judiciary Committee is working on several bills to strengthen our immigration programs and enhance national security, including stronger vetting of visa applicants and all refugees. We plan to introduce these bills over the coming weeks.” Background: In November 2015, the House of Representatives approved by a vote of 289-137 the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038). This bill requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. The White House threatened to veto this legislation.
01.08.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, released a statement today upon the passage of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act (H.R. 1927) by the House of Representatives by a vote of 211-188. The legislation combines the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act (H.R. 1927) and the Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency (FACT) Act (H.R. 526) in order to bring necessary reforms to the class action litigation and asbestos bankruptcy trust systems. Congressman Goodlatte is the chief sponsor of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act. Goodlatte: “This legislation closes a major loophole that allows aggressive trial lawyers to extort millions from companies, and then line their own pockets with those millions, while paying pennies and mere lip service to the actual victims. What’s worse, this scheme raises prices for all consumers because companies must raise prices to pay for these wasteful lawsuits. The bill the House passed today takes power away from the trial lawyers and gives it back to consumers who have actually been harmed. “It also injects much-needed transparency into the asbestos bankruptcy trust system. By screening out dishonest claims and abuses of the system, we can ensure that deserving asbestos victims are not cheated. “I was pleased to author the Class Action Fairness Act, which was signed into law ten years ago. Today, I am pleased the House has passed legislation to further reduce wasteful litigation, fraud and abuses in our legal systems, so that the truly injured can get the compensation they deserve.” Details on the FACT Act: The FACT Act reduces fraud in the asbestos bankruptcy trust system through increased transparency measures. These measures ensure that asbestos bankruptcy trusts have the tools to combat fraud, which limits funds available for asbestos victims. The FACT Act is a measured approach that strikes the proper balance between achieving transparency and protecting victims’ privacy. Similar legislation passed the House of Representatives with a bipartisan vote last Congress. Details on the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act: The bill calls for reforms to the current federal class action lawsuit framework by requiring classes that consist of members with the same type and extent of injury. Under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury.
01.07.2016	Today the House of Representatives passed the Sunshine for Regulations and Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act of 2015 (H.R. 712), by a vote of 244-173. The legislation combines several House Judiciary Committee initiatives to curb regulatory overreach and hold the regulatory system of the United States accountable during the rulemaking process. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), and Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.) praised today's passage of the bill: “This legislation is a real and balanced solution to curbing regulatory abuse by the federal government. The measures we have passed today lift more of the barriers that have been imposed by the federal government that stop hardworking Americans from achieving greater economic prosperity. “Our action today shines light on the backdoor tactics of regulators that often are a detriment to small business owners who must alter their own business practices due to unexpected changes to regulations. This bill also requires the federal government make proposed rules and regulations more accessible and easier to understand for the American people. No longer will Americans require a lawyer in order to understand how new regulations will impact their everyday lives. “Today we made serious reforms to our regulatory system to help Americans who are besieged and bewildered by the flood of new regulations flowing every day from Washington.” The Sunshine for Regulations and Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act of 2015 combines three separate pieces of legislation passed by the House Judiciary Committee. Title I: the “Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlement Agreements Act” Limits the manipulation of lawsuits and sue-and-settle decrees and settlement agreements that force regulators to issue new regulations. Title II: the “ALERT Act” Forces agencies to provide more detailed semi-annual and annual disclosures about planned regulations and their expected costs, final rules, and cumulative regulatory costs – along with monthly, online updates on planned new regulations, so those to be affected by them know in real-time how to plan for new regulations and their impacts on budgets, planning and hiring. Prevents new regulations from becoming effective unless required disclosures are made during the six months preceding the regulations’ issuance. Title III: the “Providing Accountability Through Transparency Act” Requires agencies to publish 100-word, online, plain-language summaries of all new proposed regulations.
01.07.2016	The House of Representatives today passed the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act (H.R. 1155) by a vote of 245-174.. The bill seeks to establish a blue-ribbon review committee to provide Congress with recommendations for the elimination of obsolete or unnecessary regulations that are costly to the American people. The goal of the SCRUB Act is to achieve at least a fifteen percent reduction in the overall cost of current federal regulation, with minimal reduction in federal regulatory effectiveness. Additionally, the legislation requires the Commission’s annual and final repeal recommendations to be presented to Congress for an up or down vote. Once Congress approves the recommendations, repeal must take place. According to a recent estimate, the federal regulatory burden has reached $1.86 trillion, which adds up to approximately $15,000 annually per U.S. household. The same study concluded that Americans worked an estimated 77 days per year to cover the cost of federal regulations that are a burden on families and businesses large and small. Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, praised today’s passage of the SCRUB Act: “The SCRUB Act is about helping hardworking Americans. It is about providing one more measure of certainty that could make the difference in a recent graduate’s decision of whether to take the calculated risk to launch a start-up or a local hardware store owner’s decision of whether to keep the doors open another year. The people behind these businesses are real, and they employ real people. These hardworking Americans are whom Washington regulators have forgotten, but they are what this bill is all about. “There is no good reason to impose unnecessary regulation on Americans struggling to make ends meet. The SCRUB Act will help eliminate outdated and unnecessary federal regulations that still on the book. This is common sense bill that is long overdue.”
01.06.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after voting in support of the Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act, which would dismantle the Affordable Care and Patient Protection Act, known as Obamacare, and defund Planned Parenthood: “Today’s vote isn’t simply about repealing Obamacare. It’s about crafting a health care system that actually works for patients, not against them. It’s about holding President Obama accountable for his promises of affordable care for hardworking families and that if you like your health care, you can keep it. It’s about the men and women in the Sixth District who have lost the coverage they’ve had for years, and for those who have seen their new insurance premiums skyrocket beyond their ability to pay. These are the reasons I continue to push for true, patient-centered health care solutions. “The bill passed today ends the individual mandate that forces Americans to purchase health insurance or be taxed. It would end the costly employer mandate, which has caused many businesses to cut hours or stop hiring new employees altogether. It blocks mandatory federal funding for Planned Parenthood, the nation’s largest abortion provider, and, instead, directs more funds to community health centers. Additionally, it would eliminate a slew of burdensome taxes created by Obamacare. “Sending this bill to the President’s desk will force him to choose once and for all whether to put patients first or big government mandates. The American people are ready for a solution that puts them first.” Legislative Note: The Restoring Americans' Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act was first passed by the House of Representatives in October. It was amended by the Senate in December and sent back to the House for its approval. It now heads to President Obama’s desk for consideration.
01.05.2016	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on President Obama’s executive actions on firearms: “The right of the people to keep and bear arms is one of the fundamental principles of our Republic and is not to be infringed. Over the course of President Obama’s tenure in office, his Administration has sought to undermine the Second Amendment on numerous occasions but opposition from the American people and Congress often have stopped his attempts to restrict this constitutional right. The President’s latest proposal does not go as far as originally reported, but I am concerned that it could impact citizens’ privacy and due process by granting federal bureaucrats more power to take away this right from those it deems incompetent. The House Judiciary Committee will closely monitor the Administration’s actions and consider whether legislation is needed to further protect Americans’ constitutional rights. “Like the President and Americans across this country, I want to see an end to violence that all too often results in the loss of innocent life. But we must ensure that actions taken to reduce violence are targeted, address underlying causes, and do not infringe upon the Second Amendment rights afforded to all Americans. One common factor in these tragedies is mental illness. I have been working with leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to ensure our nation’s mental health system provides families and patients access to the care they need. Additionally, as part of the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, we will soon consider a bill to provide mentally ill offenders with the resources they need in order to reduce the likelihood of them committing more crimes. “Additionally, the President’s action pays lip service to enforcing the current laws against gun violence, but Congress has passed many laws to reduce gun violence already that the Obama Administration has not enforced. As we continue to look for ways to reduce violence, President Obama should enforce the laws that are already on the books. I and other members of the House Judiciary Committee will continue to keep a watchful eye on the Obama Administration so that we protect Americans’ constitutional rights.”
12.23.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement today regarding Congressman Robert Hurt’s announcement that he will not seek re-election: “Robert Hurt has long exemplified the definition of a public servant, working diligently on behalf of the people of the 5th District of Virginia. It has truly been an honor to serve with Robert in the House of Representatives, and I am thankful for his friendship. Since coming to Washington, he has proven himself a skilled legislator and thoughtful voice at the table for Central and Southside Virginia. While he will be missed, I understand and respect his decision to return to private life. Maryellen and I wish Robert, Kathryn, and the kids the best this holiday season and in whatever the future may bring.”
12.23.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below regarding the significant drop in removals for unlawful and criminal aliens in Fiscal Year (FY) 2015. In FY 2015, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) conducted only 235,000 removals, which is down from last fiscal year’s low of 315,000 removals. Of these removals, nearly 166,000 were actually recent border crossers apprehended by Customs and Border Protection – they were not encountered by ICE. Only about 69,000 were actually apprehended where ICE has primary jurisdiction – in the interior of the United States – a 32% drop from FY 2014 and an over 70% drop since President Obama took office in 2008. To make matters worse, the removal of criminal aliens decreased by 25% from last year. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Obama Administration’s abysmal immigration enforcement record for the past year confirms what we already know: it refuses to use the tools provided by Congress to enforce our laws. Earlier this year the Obama Administration scrapped the Congressionally-mandated Secure Communities program, which identifies criminal aliens booked in jails across the country, and replaced it with the untested Priority Enforcement Program. The only priority contained in the Priority Enforcement Program is to ensure that our immigration laws are not enforced in the interior of the United States, which is evident in the low removal numbers. “Additionally, the Obama Administration attributes the decrease in removals to an overall decrease in migration but recent statistics from the Border Patrol indicate we are once again experiencing a surge of unaccompanied alien minors and family units crossing our southwest border. Collectively, the President’s refusal to enforce our laws makes our communities less safe and undermines the American people’s trust in his ability to preserve the integrity of our immigration system.”
12.19.2015	UPDATE: Following up on Congressman Goodlatte’s statement from Saturday (12/19/15) regarding Tashfeen Malik’s immigration file, please find a copy of Malik’s K-1 Visa application here. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after reviewing Tashfeen Malik’s immigration file: Chairman Goodlatte: “After reviewing Tashfeen Malik’s immigration file, it is clear that immigration officials did not thoroughly vet her application. In order to obtain a fiancée visa, it is required to demonstrate proof that the U.S. citizen and foreign national have met in person. However, Malik’s immigration file does not show sufficient evidence for this requirement. What is worse, the immigration official reviewing Malik’s application requested more evidence to ensure the two met in person but it was never provided and her visa was approved anyway. “Visa security is critical to national security, and it’s unacceptable that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services did not fully vet Malik’s application and instead sloppily approved her visa. Since the Obama Administration refuses to take the steps necessary to fully vet visa applicants, the House Judiciary Committee is working on a bill to strengthen visa processing security and protect national security. We plan to introduce this bill soon so that we can better protect Americans and our country.” Below are key findings from Malik’s immigration file. One of the many requirements to obtain a K-1 fiancée visa is to show proof that the U.S. citizen petitioner and foreign national have met in person. However, the immigration file contains only two pieces of information on this subject: (i) a statement by Syed Farook that he and Malik had been together in Saudi Arabia, and (ii) copies of pages from their passports, containing visas to enter Saudi Arabia and stamps in Arabic. The immigration official reviewing Malik’s visa application requested that the passport stamps be translated into English to confirm that they were in Saudi Arabia at the same time, but Malik’s immigration file does not contain an English translation of the passport stamps. At the request of House Judiciary Committee staff, a contractor with the Congressional Research Service (CRS) translated the passport stamps. Malik’s passport shows a Saudi Arabian entry stamp dated approximately June 4, 2013. Her exit stamp is partially illegible and the translator could not make out the month or day of her departure in 2013. Farook’s passport shows a Saudi Arabian entry stamp of October 1, 2013. The exit stamp was determined to be approximately October 20, 2013. However, even if Farook and Malik were in Saudi Arabia at the same time, this does not provide evidence that they met in person. Additionally, Malik’s Saudi Arabian visa was good for only 60 days, so this would cast doubt on the claim that the two were in Saudi Arabia at the same time. And even if Farook and Malik met in Saudi Arabia, there is insufficient evidence in the file for USCIS to have made that determination. Additional Background: Recently, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte announced that the Committee is working on legislation to enhance visa security processing. The bill will be introduced soon and will go through regular order.
12.17.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the statement below on the swell of unaccompanied alien minors and family units crossing the southwest border. Recent statistics from the Border Patrol indicate a significant increase in the number of UAMs and family units illegally entering the United States during FY 2016. During October and November, 10,588 unaccompanied alien minors were apprehended, representing an increase of 106% over the same two-month period in FY 2015, and 12,505 family units were apprehended, representing an increase of 173% over the same two-month period in FY 2015. Goodlatte: “The ongoing surge at our southwest border is a manmade disaster created by the President’s policies. In fact, a recent internal Border Patrol document obtained by the House Judiciary Committee shows that the Obama Administration’s lax immigration policies are the culprit for the ongoing surge at our borders. During recent interviews, the vast majority of the family units interviewed heard that if they came to the United States they would be able to stay. And most of those interviewed stated that it was the U.S. government’s policies that influenced their decision to come to the United States in the first place. “Additionally, the border surge raises significant national security concerns. We know that Syrians are attempting to cross our southern border. Recently, Senator Grassley and I wrote to the Department of Homeland Security to get answers about this troubling issue. President Obama needs to take a look at what he has done to encourage the border surge and end the policies that have created disorder at our borders. He created this crisis and he has the tools to fix it. “However, since President Obama has not taken the steps needed to address the border surge, the House Judiciary Committee has approved several bills that address the root causes of this problem. These bills ensure that unaccompanied minors can be returned home safely and quickly and also closes loopholes in our laws that encourage illegal immigration, allow people to game the system, and exploit our asylum laws. The House must pass these bills so that we can protect our nation and restore the integrity of our immigration system.” Additional Information: The House Judiciary Committee obtained a document from a source that shows the Obama Administration’s lax immigration policies are fueling the crisis at our borders. From July 7, 2015 – September 30, 2015, Customs and Border Protection agents interviewed 345 family units apprehended at the border. Of those interviewed, nearly 70% said that they heard that if they came to the U.S. they would be released and/or receive some sort of immigration relief, such as asylum. Additionally, nearly 60% said it was the U.S. immigration policies that influenced their decision to come here. The House Judiciary Committee has approved several pieces of legislation that address the root causes of the border surge: The “Protection of Children Act of 2015,” authored by Rep. John Carter (R-Texas), ensures unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. The “Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act of 2015,” authored by Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), closes loopholes in current law that encourage illegal immigration, such as weak standards for asylum claims that enable the Obama Administration’s rubberstamping of fraudulent applications and policies, and effectively ends “catch and release.” The “Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act,” authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), ensures that the President of the United States can’t shut down immigration enforcement unilaterally by granting states and localities specific congressional authorization to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law. Additionally, sanctuary cities will be prohibited from receiving law enforcement grants. It also strengthens national security and protects American communities by improving visa security, facilitating the removal of dangerous criminal aliens, and barring terrorists from entering and remaining in the United States.
12.15.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today announced that the House Judiciary Committee is working on legislation to reform visa security processing, including K-1 visas, and ensure that open source information is reviewed as part of the background check for visa applicants: Chairman Goodlatte: “The United States is a nation of immigrants and we have a proud tradition of welcoming people from all over the world seeking opportunity and freedom. But since 9/11 we have learned that terrorists have and will continue to exploit our legal immigration system in order to cause harm to Americans and threaten our way of life. As terrorists continue to adapt and evolve in order to carry out their heinous plots, we have a duty to strengthen the security of our immigration system so that we keep bad actors out of the United States. “As more details have been learned about the two terrorists responsible for the horrific attack in San Bernardino, it is becoming more apparent that more could have been done to vet Tashfeen Malik. She reportedly posted her radical views on social media prior to obtaining a visa, yet it seems that the Obama Administration’s policies may have prevented officials from reviewing her account. The Obama Administration’s lack of commonsense necessitates legislation to ensure proper vetting of visa applicants, including those applying for a K-1 visa, seeking to come to the United States. “The House Judiciary Committee is working on legislation that will require, among other things, in-person interviews for both the visa applicant and the sponsor at each step in the process. Additionally, the bill will require that the agencies responsible for vetting the visa applicant check his or her employment and educational history as well as review open source information, such as social media accounts, to learn more about the person seeking to come to the United States. This legislation will be introduced soon and will go through regular order so that members can thoroughly review it and offer their input on the bill.”
12.11.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a provision within the Trade Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (H.R. 644) permanently banning state taxation of Internet access. This provision originally passed the House in June as H.R. 235, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act, which was introduced by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.). It permanently bans states from taxing Internet access or placing multiple or discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. A temporary ban was first put in place in 1998. Since then, Congress has extended it multiple times with enormous bipartisan support. Congressman Goodlatte has long sought to make the ban permanent and applauded House passage of H.R. 644: “Take a close look at your next phone bill, and at the bottom you’ll see a laundry list of access taxes. But if you look at your Internet service provider’s bill, those access taxes will be missing. Wouldn’t you like to keep it that way? Making the ban on the Internet access tax permanent is a necessary measure to keep Internet access free of taxation forever and ensure the Internet is more affordable for the American people. “Today’s Internet connects communities in the Sixth District with people throughout the United States and across the globe. It is the greatest gateway to knowledge and information that has ever existed. Many folks rely on access to the Internet to continue educational opportunities, apply for employment, run businesses, monitor bank accounts, and communicate with family and friends. “Were the existing, temporary ban permitted to lapse, the potential tax burden on Americans would be substantial. It’s estimated that Internet access tax rates could be more than twice the average rate of all other goods and services. To make matters worse, low-income households could pay 10 times as much as high-income households as a share of income. The last thing that Americans need is another tax bill on their doorsteps. “I have long been working to make this ban permanent, and today’s bipartisan passage of a permanent ban on the Internet access tax helps ensure that American families and businesses will be protected from seeing a long list of taxes on their Internet bills. I urge the Senate to act now to provide a lasting solution.”
12.10.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, filed an amicus brief on Wednesday in the case of American Farm Bureau Federation, et al. v. United States Environmental Protection Agency, et al. The amicus brief, signed by 92 bipartisan Members of Congress, is in support of the American Farm Bureau Federation’s petition to the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari in order to obtain a review of the Third Circuit’s July decision in favor of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Third Circuit’s ruling threatens to usurp Congress’ intent in the Clean Water Act, which reserves the rights of states to implement water quality goals as related to the EPA’s proposed Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL). Click here for a PDF copy of the brief. Goodlatte: “Farmers, home builders, local governments, and many others in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed are all rightfully concerned about the costly impacts of the EPA’s heavy-handed regulations. Despite the intent of the Clean Water Act that the federal government work cooperatively with the states to ensure water quality goals are met, the EPA’s plan for the Chesapeake Bay seeks to remove authority from the states and convert state and local water quality decision-making to a top-down, federally-directed approach with mandatory regulations and directives. The EPA is acting as the micromanagers-in-chief. “While the EPA’s power grab in the Chesapeake Bay is disturbing on its own, of even greater concern now are the implications of the Third Circuit’s decision for Congress. The Third Circuit’s decision severely undermines the principle of cooperative federalism, Congress’ guiding principle for the design and implementation of the Clean Water Act and other major statutes, and essentially allows the EPA to usurp the states’ authority. This ruling also provides federal agencies with unprecedented authority and threatens, if upheld, to impede Congress’ ability to fulfill its legislative duties. It must not be left unchallenged. As the EPA continues to ignore the intent of Congress and the framework of the law, it is necessary for the Supreme Court to review the Third Circuit’s decision and reverse this dangerous ruling.” WHAT THEY’RE SAYING… Wilmer Stoneman, President, Virginia Farm Bureau Federation: “We believe the lower court's decision fundamentally alters the relationship between Congress and the Administration. This goes well beyond interpretation of the Clean Water Act. It clearly changes how our government will function. It's imperative that the Supreme Court untangle this mess. We greatly appreciate Mr. Goodlatte's leadership and that of his colleagues on this issue.” Michael Toalson, CEO, Home Builders Association of Virginia: “The home building industry in Virginia appreciates the efforts of Congressman Goodlatte to create balance between the need to protect Virginia’s natural resources and the need to have land available in Virginia for small and large businesses to expand and locate.” Katie Frazier, President, Virginia Agribusiness Council: “While the Virginia Agribusiness Council and our members remain committed to environmental stewardship and the implementation of voluntary agricultural best management practices to reduce nutrient runoff into the Chesapeake Bay, we appreciate the leadership of Chairman Goodlatte and his House colleagues in submitting this important amicus brief, which supports Congressional authority and the concept of cooperative federalism under the Clean Water Act.” Hobey Bauhan, President, Virginia Poultry Federation: “Virginia’s poultry industry is pleased to play a positive role in the improvement and protection of this important natural resource. The Bay restoration must balance the universally shared desire to improve the condition of the Bay with preserving state prerogatives and avoiding detriment to agriculture and Virginia’s economy generally.” Additional Information: An amicus brief, or “friend of the court” brief, can be filed in order to address concerns and advise the Court on a matter of law that directly affects the case at hand. Ninety-two Members of the United States House of Representatives and Senate signed on in support of this brief. The full list of congressional amici curiae includes: Reps. Lou Barletta (R-Pa.), Joe Barton (R-Texas), Mike Bishop (R-Mich.), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Rod Blum (R-Iowa), Mike Bost (R-Ill.), Mo Brooks (R-Miss.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), Buddy Carter (R-Ga.), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Mike Coffman (R-Colo.), Tom Cole (R-Okla.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Mike Conaway (R-Texas), Kevin Cramer (R-N.D.), Rodney Davis (R-Ill.), Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.), Tom Emmer (R-Minn.), John Fleming (R-La.), J. Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Bob Gibbs (R-Ohio), Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.), Sam Graves (R-Mo.), H. Morgan Griffith (R-Va.), Brett Guthrie (R-Ky.), Gregg Harper (R-Miss.), Andy Harris (R-Md.), Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas), Richard Hudson (R-N.C.), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.), Bill Huizenga (R-Mich.), Robert Hurt (R-Va.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Lynn Jenkins (R-Mo.), Bill Johnson (R-Ohio), Walter B. Jones (R-N.C.), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Mike Kelly (R-Pa.), Trent Kelly (R-Miss.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Adam Kinzinger (R-Ill.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Darin LaHood (R-Ill.), Doug Lamborn (R-Colo.), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Thomas Marino (R-Pa.), Tom Massie (R-Ky.), David McKinley (R-W.Va.), Alex Mooney (R-W.Va.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Dan Newhouse (R-Wash.), Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), Steve Pearce (R-N.M.), Scott Perry (R-Pa.), Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.), Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Jim Renacci (R-Ohio), Reid Ribble (R-Wis.), Mike D. Rogers (R-Ala.), Todd Rokita (R-In.), Keith Rothfus (R-Pa.), David Rouzer (R-N.C.), John Shimkus (R-Ill.), Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), Mike Simpson (R-Idaho), Adrian Smith (R-Neb.), Marlin Stutzman (R-Ind.), Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.), Scott Tipton (R-Colo.), Brad Wenstrup (R-Ohio), Bruce Westerman (R-Ark.), Joe Wilson (R-S.C.), and David Young (R-Iowa) as well as Senators John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Jim Inhofe (R-Okla.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), and Pat Toomey (R-Pa.).
12.08.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 407-19 the Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 (H.R. 158) to strengthen the security of the visa waiver program in order to enhance national security and Americans’ safety. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) managed the debate time for this bill and issued the following statement on the passage of this important legislation. Goodlatte: “We’ve known since 9/11 that vulnerabilities exist in our immigration system. We should not be surprised that terrorists have and will continue to exploit our immigration laws. It is a matter of national security that we improve our immigration system. “Legitimate concerns have been raised that ISIS terrorists and sympathizers could enter the United States though the Visa Waiver Program. It’s estimated that 5,000 Europeans – many of whom live in countries that participate in this fast-track travel program – have journeyed to Syria and Iraq to fight with terrorist groups like ISIS. Today, the House approved commonsense, bipartisan legislation that takes reasonable steps to close gaping security holes in the Visa Waiver Program and enhance Americans’ safety. “The Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 is a good first step but many other vulnerabilities continue to exist in our immigration system. The House must take up several bills already approved by the House Judiciary Committee that strengthen the asylum process, strengthen visa processing security, and prevent terrorists from receiving any immigration benefit. Congress has no more important duty than to protect our country and the American people from those who wish us harm.” Key Components of H.R. 158: The Visa Waiver Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act of 2015 takes reasonable, commonsense steps to protect national security. It requires dual nationals and individuals who have traveled since March 1, 2011 to certain countries of concern and State Sponsors of Terrorism – including Syria, Iraq, Iran, and Sudan – to obtain a visa before coming to the United States. This simply means that these folks will have to apply for a visa just like citizens of most nations already have to do in order to come to the United States. Additionally, the bill allows the Secretary of State to designate additional countries of concern so that travelers to these countries and those who hold dual citizenship in these countries also have to obtain visas before coming to the United States. For example, the Secretary could use this authority if he/she determines that the country has a significant presence of a foreign terrorist organization or that the country is a safe haven for terrorists. The bill contains a number of other security enhancements to the VWP to prevent the program from being used as a fast-track for terrorists to enter the United States. Learn more about legislation approved by the House Judiciary Committee to strengthen our immigration system and national security here.
12.04.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the suspected terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California: "First and foremost, my thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of those who lost loved ones this week in San Bernardino. This merciless act and loss of life are heartbreaking, and our nation mourns with those who are mourning. "I am troubled by the fact that this shooting in California appears to be an ISIS inspired terrorist attack. Like the Boston Marathon bombings, this attack demonstrates that terrorists will go after targets that are part of everyday American life, not just government buildings. Terrorists have adapted and evolved in order to carry out heinous plots since 9/11 and this tragedy reinforces the need for law enforcement to evolve its intelligence-gathering and investigative techniques. I am closely monitoring the FBI’s investigation of this horrific shooting and as more details are learned, we will continue to examine our nation’s criminal and immigration laws to determine whether changes need to be made to enhance Americans’ safety."
12.03.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on passage of H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act, by the U.S. House of Representatives: “Access to reliable energy sources is not only important to America’s economy, but also to our national security. Delays in projects caused by federal red tape are simply delays in job creation and new energy resources for families and businesses. H.R. 8 updates our energy policies and strengthens our energy infrastructure. This bill also takes steps to help ensure the security and reliability of our electric grid in the face of cyber-attacks and other threats. Additionally, H.R. 8 takes steps to block the continued overreach we’ve seen from the Environmental Protection Agency, including stopping a rule that would dictate which wood heater you can use. Congress must continue focusing on policies that will increase the supply, security, and diversity of American energy. I urge the Senate to act and send this common sense update of our energy policies to the President’s desk.”
12.02.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement today on a new Government Accountability Office report which finds that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review have failed to develop agency-wide policies and procedures to identify and prevent asylum fraud. “This new GAO report adds to mounting evidence that the Obama Administration refuses to take the steps necessary to crack down on asylum fraud and protect the integrity of our immigration system. We already know that there is proven or possible fraud in up to 70% of asylum applications yet the Administration hasn’t implemented procedures to identify and prevent fraud in the system. “The effective rubberstamping of asylum applications is one of the root causes of the ongoing border surge and it also carries with it serious national security concerns. Terrorism experts agree that the asylum process is a vulnerability that terrorists have and will continue to exploit to gain entry into the United States. The House Judiciary Committee has approved the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act to strengthen asylum standards and prevent the Obama Administration from approving baseless claims. “We will examine the GAO’s findings at tomorrow’s oversight hearing on the Executive Office for Immigration Review. Director Osuna has much explaining to do about his agency’s failure to address asylum fraud.” Highlights from the report: The GAO report found that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services and the Department of Justice’s Executive Office for Immigration Review have failed to develop agency-wide policies and procedures to identify and prevent asylum fraud. Immigration judges granted asylum to 3,709 aliens who were connected to attorneys and preparers convicted in federal court for submitting fraudulent asylum claims. The report also found that the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Justice rarely pursue criminal penalties or discipline attorneys for fraud. The total number of asylum applications, including affirmative and defensive applications, increased from 47,118 in fiscal year 2010 to 108,152 in fiscal year 2014, an increase of 130%. During this time, affirmative asylum applications filed directly with USCIS increased by a total of 131% and defensive asylum applications filed with EOIR increased 125%. USCIS has a backlog of more than 100,000 affirmative asylum applications, most of which have exceeded required time frames for adjudication. Background on Asylum Reform Legislation: In March 2015, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act (H.R. 1153), authored by Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah). This bill strengthens asylum standards to prevent the Obama Administration’s rubberstamping of fraudulent claims, effectively ends “catch and release,” and prevents American taxpayer dollars from being used to pay for unlawful immigrants’ lawyers. More information on the legislation can be found here.
12.01.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement inviting all high school students residing in the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to participate in the Congressional App Challenge, a nationwide contest for high school students to create and exhibit a software application, or “app,” for mobile, tablet, or computer devices on a platform of their choice: “There's an app for that! Or at least there could be thanks to talented and creative students in the Sixth District. The scope and capabilities of apps for phones and tablets is astounding, and many of these apps play valuable roles in our everyday lives. The Congressional App Challenge is a great way for high school students to learn more about developing this technology and showcase their talents. “The Congressional App Challenge helps promote the importance of education in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) fields and engaging students in coding and computer science. These are the fields that are that are driving American innovation today, and will continue to play a significant role in our economy and society. I look forward to seeing the creativity and talents of our Sixth District students.” Additional Information: Along with code for the app (or partial code in some circumstances), students entering the competition must submit a video that explains their app and how it works. Students may participate as individuals or in teams of up to four. The deadline for all submissions is January 15, 2016. Interested students and educators may contact Congressman Goodlatte’s Washington, D.C. office at 202-225-5431 with any questions. Click here for more information on the Sixth District Congressional App Challenge.
11.30.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement on the implementation of the USA Freedom Act: “The implementation of the USA Freedom Act represents government at its best: it is the product of a robust public debate and intense bipartisan negotiations dedicated to finding a way to protect our Constitutional rights while enhancing the safety of our country. The bipartisan law ends the bulk collection of telephone metadata once and for all, enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe. “The horrific terrorist attacks in Paris are a stark reminder that we must always remain vigilant against the threats we face. The USA Freedom Act gives the intelligence community the resources needed to keep us safe and closes a loophole that allowed terrorists to go dark once they enter the U.S. Without the USA Freedom Act, our country would be more vulnerable to terrorist attacks. “Today is a significant day in American history and we are pleased to have played a role in a law that has the support of the intelligence community, civil liberties groups, the President, and most importantly, the American people.” Background: The USA Freedom Act – authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers, Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler – was signed into law on June 2, 2015. The bill reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) and provides tools to enhance national security. Here are some key components of this historic law: Strengthens national security: • Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. • Contains an additional tool to combat ISIS: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. • Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. • Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. • Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Protects civil liberties: • Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. • Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. • Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: • Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. • Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. • Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. • Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act here.
11.30.2015	Following the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) release of the final rules for the 2014-2016 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Peter Welch (D-Vt.), Steve Womack (R-Ar.), and Jim Costa (D-Calif.) released the following statement: “The EPA’s decision to funnel more ethanol into the fuel supply is terribly disappointing. The RFS requirements announced today will push ethanol volumes beyond the blendwall in 2016, leaving American consumers and our economy to feel the negative effects. While well-intentioned, it’s now abundantly clear the RFS is a broken policy that is having drastic impacts on families, small businesses and retailers, the agriculture community, and the environment. “Neglecting the concerns of 184 bipartisan Members of the House of Representatives over increasing ethanol requirements, the EPA proceeded anyway. And since the EPA refuses to keep RFS volumes below the blendwall, Congress must act to fix this broken ethanol mandate. A growing majority in Congress has recognized the ‘real-world limitations’ of this bungled policy, and a recent survey found 70 percent of Americans oppose it. The RFS Reform Act is a solution to the problems created by the ethanol mandate, and our bill would finally provide much-needed, long-term relief for those impacted by the failures of this policy.” Recently, 184 bipartisan Members of the House of Representatives joined in sending a letter to EPA Administrator McCarthy expressing concerns regarding the proposed 2016 RFS requirements. In February 2015, Goodlatte, Welch, Womack, and Costa introduced the RFS Reform Act (H.R. 704), which eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels.
11.24.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today pressed Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson for information about the threat of ISIS members entering the United States through the porous southwest border. Recent news reports have highlighted concerns about Syrian nationals with fraudulent passports attempting to come to the U.S. In November 2015, it was reported that five Syrian men with fraudulent Greek passports were apprehended in Honduras with the intention of entering the United States. Additionally, U.S. Customs and Border Protection confirmed that six Syrians were arrested after they presented themselves at the Laredo, Texas port of entry. In the letter, Chairmen Goodlatte and Grassley note that “ISIS will seize every opportunity to exploit the vulnerabilities inherent in this Obama Administration’s reckless open border immigration policies, including the irresponsible effort to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees in the United States despite the real dangers presented by ISIS operatives posing as refugees.” The lawmakers request that Secretary Johnson provide information on aliens from countries of particular concern that have been apprehended at the border, including whether or not the alien had a fraudulent passport or requested asylum. Below is the text of the Goodlatte-Grassley letter. November 24, 2015 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to express our serious concern regarding recent information that has come to light, which highlights the threat of ISIS members entering the country through the southwest border of the United States. On November 19, 2015, a news report indicated that a Syrian woman was arrested in Costa Rica posing as a Greek citizen. Just one day prior, Reuters reported that five Syrian men were apprehended in Honduras holding fraudulent Greek passports, with the intention of entering the United States. U.S. Customs and Border Protection confirmed that six Syrians, members of two families, were arrested after they presented themselves at the Laredo, Texas port of entry on November 17, 2015. These incidents reflect a concerted effort by Syrians to evade inspection and illegally enter the United States. Of course, these cases represent only those Syrians who were actually apprehended. Undoubtedly, others have evaded detection and succeeded in illegally entering the United States. There is no doubt that ISIS will seize every opportunity to exploit the vulnerabilities inherent in this Administration’s reckless open border immigration policies, including the irresponsible effort to resettle 10,000 Syrian refugees in the United States despite the real dangers presented by ISIS operatives posing as refugees. In fact, ISIS is making no secret of their plans to have their members infiltrate groups of Syrian refugees. We should take ISIS at its word. On Friday, November 13, ISIS made good on its promise of terrorism by murdering 130 innocent civilians in Paris – including one American. And ISIS has expressed its ultimate goal of bringing the fight to the American homeland, saying specifically that it will “strike America at its center in Washington.” Given ISIS’s avowed aim of attacking Americans on our own soil and its unconcealed plan to masquerade its terror operatives as Syrians fleeing their country, it is clear that any border apprehensions of putative Syrians presenting fraudulent identification documents is a matter of grave concern. Over the last week, Administration officials have consistently stated, including in testimony to Congress, that, “Applicants to the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program are currently subject to the highest level of security checks of any category of traveler to the United States.” Such a fact makes it even more important to know whether Syrians apprehended attempting to enter the U.S. illegally have been allowed by this Administration to remain in the U.S. and have been provided immigration benefits. Given the critical threat posed by ISIS and the national security vulnerabilities created by the Administration’s failure to secure our borders, we ask you to respond to the following requests for information by December 4, 2015: 1. Please provide a list of “Special Interest Aliens” or aliens from “Specially Designated Countries,” who were apprehended while entering or attempting to enter the United States at a land, air, or sea border on or after March 15, 2011, including, but not limited to, aliens who claim to be citizens of, or have at any time resided in Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Sudan, Somalia, Afghanistan, or Pakistan. 2. For each apprehension identified in the preceding question, please provide the date, name of the alien, A-number, whether fraudulent identification documents were presented or seized, whether the alien claimed a credible fear or asserted asylum, whether the alien was placed in removal proceedings, whether the alien was detained pending the determination of removability, whether the alien was ordered removed or granted relief from removal, and what, if any, immigration benefit the alien was ultimately granted. 3. Would the Department of Homeland Security issue a detainer or request for notification if a law enforcement agency notified the Department that an alien from Syria or Iraq was in state custody, there was probable cause to believe that the alien was out of lawful status or present without inspection, and was charged with a violation that did not fall within one of the three enforcement categories under the Department’s Priority Enforcement Program? We appreciate your cooperation in answering the questions and concerns we have raised in this letter. Please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926 if you have any questions regarding this matter. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
11.19.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 289-137 the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act of 2015 (H.R. 4038). This bill requires comprehensive background checks of every refugee from Iraq or Syria before they can be admitted into the United States and certification that each does not pose a threat. Since the House Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction of our nation’s immigration laws, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) managed the debate time for H.R. 4038. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement praising passage of the bill: “While the United States already has the most generous refugee policies in the world, we must ensure that those seeking refuge in the United States do not pose national security threats to our nation. Top national security officials within the Obama Administration have repeatedly warned that the U.S. government does not have the resources and dramatically lacks the information needed to fully vet refugees from Syria. ISIS also has vowed to use the refugee system to enter Western countries. Despite these warnings and the recent terrorist attacks in Paris, President Obama continues to move forward with his plan to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees into the United States over the coming year. “The primary duty of the federal government is to keep Americans safe, and it has become clear that we need to hit pause on the President’s plan. The American SAFE Act takes an important step toward strengthening the vetting process for the refugee program. I urge the Senate to take this bill up and send it to the President’s desk so that we can send the strong message that Americans do not support his plan.” Earlier today, the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee held a hearing on “The Syrian Refugee Crisis and Its Impact on the Security of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.” In October, Chairman Goodlatte called on President Obama to rescind his directive to Secretary Kerry to usher in thousands of Syrian refugees into the United States. Previously, FBI Director Comey testified before the House Judiciary Committee that the government dramatically lacks the resources to fully vet Syrian refugees.
11.18.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote bipartisan legislation to reform federal sentencing laws. The Sentencing Reform Act of 2015 (H.R. 3713) – authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Congressman Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), and Congressman Mike Bishop (R-Mich.) – is part of the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative. The Sentencing Reform Act of 2015 reduces certain mandatory minimums for drug offenses, including the three-strike mandatory life sentence to 25 years and the second-strike mandatory sentence from 20 to 15 years. It broadens the mechanism for non-violent drug offenders to be sentenced below the mandatory minimum sentence and provides judges in those cases with greater discretion in determining appropriate sentences. Significantly, the Sentencing Reform Act of 2015 contains important limitations on retroactivity to ensure that serious violent criminals serve the full time for their crimes in federal prison and do not get out of prison early. It also contains sentencing enhancements for Fentanyl trafficking, a highly addictive and deadly drug that is becoming a growing epidemic in the United States. Below is a statement from Chairman Goodlatte on today’s Committee approval of the bill: “The House Judiciary Committee has been hard at work on a number of bills to improve our nation’s criminal justice system and I am pleased that we have approved a bipartisan solution to reform federal sentencing requirements. The Sentencing Reform Act makes commonsense changes to federal sentencing laws to ensure our federal laws effectively and appropriately punish wrongdoers, work as efficiently and fairly as possible, and do not waste taxpayer dollars. It also ensures that serious violent criminals do not benefit from these reforms and serve the full time for their crimes in prison. The House Judiciary Committee will continue to work on other issues facing our criminal justice system and will unveil additional bills over the coming weeks.” To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, click here.
11.18.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved four bills to rein in the explosion of federal criminal law, commonly referred to as over-criminalization. First, the Committee approved the Criminal Code Improvement Act of 2015 (H.R. 4002) by voice vote, authored by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.). This legislation creates a default mens rea standard that applies when federal law does not provide a state of mind requirement. It also creates uniform definitions for several terms that are used frequently throughout title 18 of the Criminal Code. Second, the Committee approved the Fix the Footnotes Act of 2015 (H.R. 4001) by voice vote, sponsored by Congressman Ken Buck (R-Colo.). This legislation fixes the footnotes in the current version of the Criminal Code to address errors made by Congress in drafting the laws. Third, the Committee approved the Regulatory Reporting Act of 2015 (H.R. 4003) by voice vote, sponsored by Congresswoman Mimi Walters (R-Calif.). This bill requires every federal agency to submit a report to Congress listing each rule of that agency that, if violated, may be punishable by criminal penalties, along with information about the rule. And fourth, the Committee approved the Clean Up the Code Act of 2015 (H.R. 4023) by voice vote, authored by Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio). This bill eliminates several statutes in the U.S. Code that subject violators to criminal penalties, such as the unauthorized use of the 4-H emblem or the interstate transportation of dentures. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) said the following on the approval of the four bills to address over-criminalization: “Over the past few decades, the federal criminal code has expanded dramatically. The bills approved by the House Judiciary Committee today make commonsense changes to the federal criminal code to ensure our laws fit within the overall federal criminal law scheme, are appropriate in force relative to other criminal laws, require that a person must intend to commit a crime in order to be criminally liable for that crime, and are necessary. We look forward to introducing additional bills to improve our criminal justice system over the coming weeks.” Background: The United States Code currently contains nearly 5,000 federal crimes. Recent studies estimate that approximately 60 new federal crimes are enacted each year, and over the past three decades, Congress has averaged 500 new crimes per decade. In addition to the statutory criminal offenses, there are thousands of federal regulations that, if violated, can also result in criminal liability. Many of these laws and regulations impose criminal penalties on people who have no idea they are violating a law. To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative, click here.
11.16.2015	The House Judiciary Committee released a new video on its bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative. The Committee is taking a step-by-step approach to criminal justice reform to ensure that our federal criminal laws and regulations appropriately punish wrongdoers, are effectively and appropriately enforced, protect individual freedom, safeguard civil liberties, work as efficiently as possible, do not impede state efforts, and do not waste taxpayer dollars. Click here to watch. Below is a transcript of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-Va.) remarks. Chairman Goodlatte: There is a growing consensus across the political spectrum that our criminal justice system is in need of reform. Over the past few decades, the federal criminal code has expanded dramatically, creating an ever-increasing maze of federal laws and regulations. Republicans and Democrats don’t always agree on everything, but we do agree that criminal justice reform is not a liberal or conservative issue; it’s an American issue. As Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, I announced a bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative. We are pursuing responsible, common sense reforms to ensure our criminal justice system reflects core American values. We want to make sure our federal laws and regulations effectively and appropriately punish wrongdoers, protect individual freedom, safeguard civil liberties, work as efficiently and fairly as possible, do not impede state efforts, and do not waste taxpayer dollars. Through the Committee’s initiative, we are addressing issues such as over-criminalization, sentencing reform, prison and reentry reform, improved criminal procedures and policing strategies, and civil asset forfeiture reform. To learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work on criminal justice reform, visit http://judiciary.house.gov/index.cfm/criminal-justice-reform-initiative.
11.16.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued the following statement on the horrific terrorist attacks in Paris, France: “My thoughts and prayers are with the French people and those that lost loved ones as a result of the barbaric terrorist attacks in Paris. The American people stand with them as they mourn their loss and hold fast in the face of evil. “These terrorist attacks are a reminder that ISIS poses a threat to our allies and America. Yet this reality is not clearly seen by our President. Just hours before the attack, President Obama boasted that ISIS is contained. Clearly, they are not. ISIS terrorists and sympathizers have made clear that they plan to infiltrate Western countries through the refugee system. When will President Obama take ISIS threats seriously, as well as the warnings of national security officials within his own administration, and cease his plan to bring thousands of Syrian refugees into the United States? His disconnectedness to reality is needlessly jeopardizing national security and Americans’ lives. “This week, the House Judiciary Committee will examine these threats to our nation at a Justice Department oversight hearing and at a hearing on the Syrian refugee crisis and its impact on national security. It’s past time for President Obama to wake up to reality and lead on this issue.” Background: On Tuesday, November 17, 2015 at 10:00 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold an oversight hearing on the U.S. Department of Justice. On Thursday, November 19, 2015 at 9:00 a.m., the Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee will hold a hearing on the Syrian refugee crisis and its impact on U.S. national security. In October, Chairman Goodlatte called on President Obama to rescind his directive to Secretary Kerry to usher in thousands of Syrian refugees into the United States. Previously, FBI Director Comey testified before the House Judiciary Committee that the government dramatically lacks the resources to fully vet Syrian refugees.
11.12.2015	Reps. Bob Goodlatte (Va.-06) and H. Morgan Griffith (Va.-09) have been leading Republican efforts to reform the way the U.S. House of Representatives operates as an institution. Following the announcement that former Rep. John Boehner would resign, they started a small group, representing a broad cross-section of Members, to identify rules changes that would serve to unify House Republicans and advance a strong agenda for America. Additionally, Goodlatte and Griffith were both recently named by Speaker Paul D. Ryan to a task force charged with recommending reforms to the House Republican Steering Committee, a body responsible for nominating committee chairmen and membership on committees for all Republican Members as well as other roles. They released the following statement: “The House of Representatives is the People’s House, and when the body is no longer working effectively on behalf of the people, it is clear that reforms to the institution itself are needed. We have long discussed the need for reforms to the way the House operates, suggesting various ideas for how we can make it more functional, inclusive, and respectful of the needs of individual Members from across the country. “With recent changes in House Leadership, we are now actively working to open up processes, empower individual Members, and improve House operations as a body. We look forward to continuing to work with Speaker Ryan and our fellow House Republicans, enacting rules and process changes that will help unite our Members and advancing a legislative agenda that best serves the American people by helping create jobs, grow the economy, and protect liberty.”
11.10.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld an injunction preventing President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration from being implemented: “The decision from the federal appeals court is a victory for the Constitution and the American people. President Obama’s decision to ignore the limits placed on his power and act unilaterally to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws is an affront to the Constitution. The President himself stated over 20 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own yet he did so anyway. Such lawlessness must be stopped so that we preserve the separation of powers in the Constitution and protect individual liberty.” Background: In December, numerous states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte and others signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015 a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Following this decision, Chairman Goodlatte and other Members of Congress filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of Texas v. United States.
11.10.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are seeking more information on a man with gang ties who allegedly attacked a police officer after being released by immigration officials. Jose Misael Reyes-Reyes, a known member of the MS-13 gang, allegedly attacked a Fredrick County, Md. sheriff’s deputy while he was investigating an unrelated traffic accident. The deputy was able to subdue and arrest Reyes-Reyes, who was previously apprehended by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol, but released. Reyes-Reyes is in the country illegally and was in deportation proceedings at the time of the incident. “While the unprovoked attack on a law enforcement officer is extremely disturbing, what is more disturbing is the fact that a known criminal alien gang member was involved in this alleged crime,” the lawmakers said in a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson. Grassley and Goodlatte are calling on the department to provide details on Reyes-Reyes’ criminal and immigration background, including his encounters with law enforcement, whether he had applied for any immigration benefits and the reasons for releasing him from custody. The full text of the lawmakers’ letter to Johnson follows: November 10, 2015 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to request case information on Jose Misael Reyes-Reyes, an illegal alien and MS-13 gang member who committed an unprovoked attack on Frederick County Deputy Sheriff Greg Morton on November 5, 2015. According to the Fredrick County, Maryland Sheriff’s Office, Deputy Morton was in his car investigating an unrelated traffic accident when Reyes-Reyes began hitting him in the face through the car window. Deputy Morton subdued Reyes-Reyes and arrested him, but Reyes-Reyes then began kicking Deputy Morton in an attempt to escape while handcuffed. Reyes-Reyes has been charged with multiple criminal counts, including second-degree assault on a police officer, two counts of second degree assault, resisting arrest, disorderly conduct, disturbing the peace, obstructing and hindering, and disorderly intoxication. According to the Sheriff’s Office, Reyes-Reyes was in the country illegally. Reyes-Reyes was previously apprehended by U.S. Border Patrol but released. At the time of the attack on Deputy Morton, Reyes-Reyes was awaiting his removal hearing. The Sheriff’s Office records also confirm that Reyes-Reyes was a known MS-13 gang member. This attack is yet another example of the utter lack of respect for the law and those who uphold it, and a terrible reminder that our federal, state, and local law enforcement officers are now singled out as targets by criminals who seek to murder and maim those who wear the badge. While the unprovoked attack on a law enforcement officer is extremely disturbing, what is more disturbing is the fact that a known criminal alien gang member was involved in this alleged crime. In order to better understand Reyes-Reyes’ immigration and criminal history, we are seeking answers about his entry to and residency in the United States. Please provide both Committees on the Judiciary, no later than November 20, 2015, with the immigration history and status, executive summary, criminal history and any other information that may be readily available surrounding Reyes-Reyes. Furthermore, please provide the Committees with the following documents and answers to the below questions as soon as possible, but not later than November 20, 2015: 1. Please identify and explain each and every encounter that the Department of Homeland Security or any of its agencies has had with Reyes-Reyes, including the date of the encounter, whether the encounter resulted in detention or the issuance of a detainer or request for notification, whether the encounter resulted in the initiation of removal proceedings or reinstatement of a prior removal order against Reyes-Reyes, and the current status of those removal proceedings or reinstatement. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Reyes-Reyes was arrested by a law enforcement agency in the United States, including criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charges, the jurisdictions where the arrests occurred, the dispositions of the charges, the dates on which Reyes-Reyes was released from the custody of the law enforcement agencies, and the reasons for the release. 3. Were any detainers or requests for notification about the release of Reyes-Reyes issued by the Department of Homeland Security to any state, local or federal jurisdiction or agency? 4. Did Reyes-Reyes ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that Reyes-Reyes may have submitted. 5. Please provide a copy of the alien file for Reyes-Reyes. 6. Please provide any other information collected or maintained by DHS, including ICE or CBP, regarding Reyes-Reyes. 7. If Reyes-Reyes had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his arrest in connection with the above mentioned crimes, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under PEP? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
11.06.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement on President Obama’s announcement that he will reject construction of the Keystone XL pipeline: “Rejecting the Keystone XL project is a rejection of pro-energy, pro-jobs policies. The President's decision today is very disappointing, and, unfortunately, falls in line with his record of obstructionism. The American people have been waiting for this common sense energy solution for seven years. The Keystone XL pipeline would have been a prime opportunity for the White House to actually work with Congress. Now, American jobs and energy security must continue to wait.”
11.05.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the release of the full text of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) free trade agreement earlier this morning: “I look forward to carefully reviewing the details of the TPP agreement over the coming months, before it can be formally presented to Congress for consideration. In the meantime, as a result of the passage of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) earlier this year, the American people can now engage openly in this process and comb through the text of the agreement as well. As I promised my constituents when TPA was debated earlier this year, the American people will now have ample opportunity to read for themselves what has been negotiated by the Administration, and I encourage folks in the Sixth District to provide their input on the agreement by submitting comments directly to me at Goodlatte.House.Gov. While I support free trade that will help bring jobs and the opportunity for economic growth to Virginia, I will carefully evaluate this agreement to determine if it will achieve those goals, protect American workers, and does not negatively affect our liberties, laws, or freedoms.”
11.04.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, issued a statement on the passing of former Rep. Howard Coble (R-N.C.): “A sharp wit and humor came naturally to Howard Coble. He had a knack for remembering countless high school and college mascots – and if he didn’t know it at the time, he was sure to recall it the next time he was asked. “Howard was a true public servant, from his years of military service to his 30 years representing the 6th Congressional District of North Carolina. It was an honor to serve alongside him in the U.S. House of Representatives and on the House Judiciary Committee. As the Chairman of the Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee, Howard was a leader on numerous issues, including copyright and patent reform as well as various initiatives to promote and protect American creativity. “But first and foremost it was a true privilege to call him a friend. For many years I played tennis on Wednesday mornings with Howard. His friendship will be dearly missed. Many have spoken fondly of their memories of Howard, and that is a true testament to his character. My thoughts and prayers are with his family during this difficult time.”
11.04.2015	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) joined Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Congressman Andy Harris (R-Md.), and Congressman Charles W. Boustany, Jr., MD (R-La.) to introduce a bill to reform the H-2B seasonal guestworker program. The H-2B guestworker program is used by American employers to hire foreign workers for temporary and seasonal work, such as forestry, seafood processing, and other industries. The Strengthen Employment and Seasonal Opportunities Now (Season) Act (H.R. 3918) provides much needed reforms to the H-2B program in order to protect American workers, help U.S. employers who play by the rules hire seasonal guestworkers, save taxpayer dollars, and ensure the H-2B program is truly a temporary, seasonal guestworker program. Earlier this year, the Obama Administration issued new regulations for the H-2B program that increase red tape and create higher costs for the small and seasonal businesses that use the program. Goodlatte: “Many small businesses playing by the rules, including many employers in the 6th Congressional District of Virginia, rely heavily on seasonal employees with H-2B visas to support industries such as forestry and tourism. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration has issued regulations that are overly burdensome for the small and seasonal businesses that play by the rules and use this guestworker program to hire a legal workforce. “The Season Act provides much needed reforms to the H-2B guestworker program so that American employers have access to a reliable workforce during peak seasons. Additionally, the bill contains protections for American workers and taxpayers so that they are not adversely impacted by this seasonal guestworker program. I thank Chairman Chabot for his work on this important bill and look forward to moving the bill soon.” Key components of the Season Act: Protects American workers: The bill requires employers to first recruit U.S. workers and offer U.S. workers the same benefits, wages, and working conditions that H-2B workers will receive. Under the bill, employers seeking to use the H-2B program cannot improperly lay-off U.S. workers in order to hire foreign workers. Additionally, employers cannot fill positions if the former workers in those specific jobs are on strike or locked out in the course of a labor dispute. Helps U.S. employers who play by the rules hire seasonal workers: The Season Act provides expedited processing of H-2B applications so that U.S. employers have access to workers during their peak work seasons. Under the bill, the Department of Homeland Security is to run the H-2B program and ensure employer compliance with the program’s obligations. The Department of Labor has no role in the H-2B program under the bill. Since the need for these visas by small and seasonal employers greatly outstrips the available supply, the bill provides that guestworkers who abide by the law and return home at the end of a season can in many cases return to the U.S. to work without being counted against the visa quota. Protects American taxpayers: Under the Season Act, H-2B workers are ineligible for federal public benefits, including Obamacare subsidies. They also are not eligible for refundable tax credits – the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit. Ensures the H-2B program is actually a temporary program: H-2B visas are available to perform temporary labor where an employer’s need for labor will last no more than one year and is seasonal (up to 10 months), unless it is a one-time occurrence lasting no longer than three years. Under the bill, an H-2B worker who has worked three years in the United States under the H-2B program or other temporary work programs must remain outside the U.S. for three months before being readmitted to work under any guestworker programs.
10.30.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are seeking more details regarding the kidnapping and repeated sexual assault of a woman by a man who is in the country illegally and was previously deported twice. According to a federal criminal complaint, Jose Amaya-Vasquez kidnapped his ex-girlfriend at knifepoint in Kansas City, Mo., and repeatedly raped her over the next two days as he drove her and their two-year-old daughter to New Jersey. According to the document, Amaya-Vasquez had illegally entered the country and had been deported twice before the incident—once for assaulting the same kidnapped victim. In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, the lawmakers are seeking more information about Amaya-Vasquez’s immigration and criminal history, including any previous encounters with law enforcement. They are also asking whether Amaya-Vasquez would have been considered a priority for removal prior to his most recent arrest under the Department of Homeland Security’s Priority Enforcement Program. Full text of the lawmakers’ letter to Johnson follows. October 30, 2015 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: We write to request case information on Jose Amaya-Vasquez, reportedly an unlawful alien from Honduras who allegedly kidnapped his estranged girlfriend at knifepoint in Missouri and repeatedly raped her as he drove her and her two-year-old child to New Jersey in May 2015. He is currently charged with kidnapping and illegal reentry after removal, and in custody in Camden, New Jersey. According to media reports, Amaya-Vasquez illegally entered the United States in 2005. He was twice removed from the United States in 2014 and subsequently reentered prior to allegedly perpetrating the rapes. In order to better understand Amaya-Vasquez’s immigration and criminal history, we are seeking answers about his entry to and residency in the United States. Please provide both Committees on the Judiciary, no later than November 6, 2015, with the immigration history and status, executive summary, criminal history and any other information that may be readily available surrounding Amaya-Vasquez. Furthermore, please provide the Committees with the following documents and answers to the below questions as soon as possible, but not later than November 16, 2015: 1. Please identify and explain each and every encounter that the Department of Homeland Security or any of its agencies has had with Amaya-Vasquez, including the date of the encounter, whether the encounter resulted in detention or the issuance of a detainer or request for notification, whether the encounter resulted in the initiation of removal proceedings or reinstatement of a prior removal order against Amaya-Vasquez, and the current status of those removal proceedings or reinstatement. 2. Please identify each and every date on which Amaya-Vasquez was arrested by a law enforcement agency in the United States, including criminal and civil arrests, the nature of the charges, the jurisdictions where the arrests occurred, the dispositions of the charges, the dates on which Amaya-Vasquez was released from the custody of the law enforcement agencies, and the reasons for the release. 3. Were any detainers or requests for notification about the release of Amaya-Vasquez issued by the Department of Homeland Security to any state, local or federal jurisdiction or agency? 4. We have seen numerous examples of illegal immigrants who were in federal custody, but were handed over to state or local law enforcement agencies with sanctuary polices, and subsequently released again into the public. To identify and prevent this type of enabling of criminal aliens to reoffend, please answer the following questions about this case: a. Is DHS aware of any outstanding warrants for Amaya-Vasquez? If so, please provide the jurisdiction and the reason for the warrant. b. If Amaya-Vasquez is transferred to a state or local law enforcement agency for an outstanding warrant, will ICE issue a detainer or request for notification of release? c. If the state or local law enforcement agency declines to honor a detainer or notify ICE, what action will DHS take to ensure that this alleged sex offender is not free to walk and reoffend? 5. Did Amaya-Vasquez ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that Amaya-Vasquez may have submitted. 6. Please provide a copy of the alien file for Amaya-Vasquez. 7. Please provide any other information collected or maintained by DHS, including ICE or CBP, regarding Amaya-Vasquez. 8. If Amaya-Vasquez had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his arrest in connection with the above mentioned crimes, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under PEP? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? If you cannot comply with this request by November 16, 2015, please provide an update on the status of this request and the expected date of compliance prior to the expiration of the referenced date and not less frequently than weekly thereafter. As you know, the Privacy Act authorizes disclosure of information to Committees of Congress. If you cannot fully respond to each and every request for documents or information set forth above, please identify the specific item requested to which you cannot fully respond and explain why you cannot respond. Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
10.29.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and House Space, Science and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) introduced the September 11th VCF Reauthorization and U.S. Victims of State Sponsored Terrorism Compensation Act (H.R. 3858) to compensate the first responders and other victims of the September 11, 2001 attacks and other terrorist attacks against Americans facilitated by state sponsors of terrorism. In addition, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton (R-Mich.) and Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joseph Pitts (R-Penn.) released a discussion draft to reauthorize the World Trade Center Health Program. The bill introduced by Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Chairman Chabot, and Chairman Smith provides for a five-year reauthorization of the September 11th Victims Compensation Fund and $2,775,000,000 to compensate eligible claimants who file claims during this five-year extension. Another major provision of the bill allows U.S. victims and the families of U.S. victims whose lives were lost in state sponsored terrorist attacks, such as the 1983 bombings of the U.S. Marine Barracks and U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon, to receive compensation from a new terrorism compensation fund. The legislation uses funds seized from the state sponsors of terror, and will allow the victims of the 9/11 attacks and other U.S. terrorism victims the ability to be compensated for their losses while not incurring additional costs to the American taxpayer. The House Energy and Commerce Committee’s discussion draft provides for a five-year extension of special health care coverage for first responders and survivors who suffered medical complications following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001. The World Trade Center Health Program includes medical services for responders and survivors; a network of Clinical Centers of Excellence and Data Centers; a Scientific and Technical Advisory Committee; and payment for medical services provided to enrollees. NIOSH is primarily responsible for administering the program. The discussion draft also includes a GAO Study on the processes for providing certifications of coverage of conditions of World Trade Center responders as World Trade Center related health conditions. Finally, the discussion draft includes a provision to offset the cost of the reauthorization of the World Trade Center Health Program. This provision would require individuals earning more than $1,000,000 annually to pay their entire premium for Medicare Parts B and D. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Fred Upton, House Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot, House Space, Science and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith, and Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee Chairman Joseph Pitts released the following joint statement: “We saw courage in the actions of the emergency personnel and first responders who were at Ground Zero only hours after the World Trade Center fell in order to search for survivors and recover those whom we lost. We also saw courage in the faces of the families of U.S. service members and others who lost mothers, fathers, husbands, wives and children during acts of terror, and who have never been able to hold those who sponsor these wicked acts of terrorism financially accountable. “Today we are taking a stand for the victims, as well as their families, who have suffered at the hands of terrorist organizations whose sole mission is to harm American citizens. We are also making sure that those who served and sacrificed countless hours during the recovery efforts at Ground Zero receive the care and compensation they deserve.”
10.27.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today questioned President Obama’s decision to resettle thousands of Syrian refugees in the United States despite the national security concerns of high-ranking officials within the Obama Administration. At last week’s House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Director Comey repeatedly stated that the U.S. government does not have the resources and dramatically lacks the necessary information to fully vet Syrian refugees. He also could not offer any assurances that there is no risk associated with admitting Syrian refugees to the United States. Exchanges on this issue between Director Comey and Members of the Committee can be watched here, here, and here. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte asks President Obama if he was aware of the concerns of high-ranking officials within his own Administration before directing Secretary John Kerry to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees over the coming year. If he was not aware, Chairman Goodlatte asks what changes the President will make to his directive. And if he was aware, Chairman Goodlatte asks why he continues to ignore the concerns of his security officials. Chairman Goodlatte also calls on President Obama to rescind his directive to Secretary Kerry and not admit any Syrian refugees until a security check process is implemented. Below is the text of Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to President Obama. October 27, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President United States of America The White House Washington, D.C. Dear President Obama: I write regarding your plan to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees to the United States during Fiscal Year 2016. Such a policy seems ill-conceived considering numerous statements by security officials within your Administration about the current lack of ability to properly vet potential refugees for admission to the United States. Most recently, FBI Director James Comey conceded at a hearing before the House Judiciary Committee that even with a decade of intelligence and forensic evidence available to us in Iraq, the U.S. still admitted Iraqi nationals as refugees who were terrorist threats. And while he noted that the vetting of refugees has improved, the reality is that with a conflict zone like Syria where there is “dramatically” less information available to use during the vetting process, Director Comey could not “offer anybody an absolute assurance that there’s no risk associated with” admitting Syrian nationals as refugees. Director Comey also testified at a separate congressional hearing that “we can only query against that which we have collected, and so if someone has never made a ripple in the pond in Syria in a way that would get their identity or their interest reflected in our database, we can query our database til the cows come home, but … nothing will show up, because we have no record on that person.” And Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson essentially conceded the same when he noted that “it is true that we’re not going to know a whole lot about a lot of these Syrians…” and stated that agencies involved in the vetting process are “committed to doing the best we can and as deliberately as we can (emphasis added)….” Director Comey also testified in the Senate on October 8, 2015, stating, “my concern there is there are certain gaps ... in the data available to us.” He then noted that “there is risk associated of bringing anybody in from the outside, but specifically from a conflict zone like that [Syria].” Even officials within U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the agency responsible for processing the refugee applications and ensuring the requisite background checks are performed, have acknowledged the difficulty in proper vetting. In fact, on October 1, 2015, Acting Associate Director for the USCIS Fraud Detection and National Security Directorate (FDNS), Matthew Emrich, admitted to the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Immigration and the National Interest that the government of Syria does not have any databases that the U.S. government can access to run security checks. Assistant Director of the FBI Counterterrorism Division Michael Steinbach testified before Congress in February that “the concern is in Syria, the lack of our footprint on the ground in Syria, that the databases won’t have the information we need. So, it is not that we have a lack of process, it is there is a lack of information.” And he went on to say that “you are talking about a country that is a failed state, that is—does not have any infrastructure so to speak, so you—all of the data sets, the police, the intel services that normally you would go and seek that information don’t exist.” I am disturbed that U.S. refugee policy could again be used as a mechanism to enter the U.S. by foreign nationals who want to do us harm. We must prevent even one American from being harmed by Syrian refugees resettled in the U.S, and thus we must take the concerns of security officials seriously. Were you aware of the concerns of high-ranking security officials in your Administration regarding the lack of ability to properly vet potential refugees from Syria prior to directing Secretary of State John Kerry to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees during FY 2016? If not, what changes will you now make to that directive? If so, why did you, and why do you continue to ignore the very legitimate concerns expressed by your security officials? Based on the concerns raised by security officials within your Administration at the agencies relevant to conducting security checks, I request that you rescind your directive to Secretary Kerry to admit 10,000 Syrian refugees during Fiscal Year 2016, and that your Administration not admit any Syrian refugees until such time that a security check process is implemented that will ensure no refugee is admitted who is a terrorist or is likely to be a terrorist. Thank you in advance for your prompt response. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Committee on the Judiciary
10.27.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in opposition to reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank: “Continuing the Export-Import Bank without significant, structural reforms is not responsible governing. Even worse, regular order in the House has been undermined by the use of this discharge petition, with a small minority of House Republicans joining with the Democrats to pass flawed legislation. While I strongly support trade and have supported the Export-Import Bank in the past, it has become increasingly clear that the status quo cannot continue, and true reforms are necessary if the Bank is to continue at all. Unfortunately, that debate about the best way forward and potential reforms for the Bank cannot even happen now because of the procedural maneuver used to push this reauthorization through the House.” Background: The Export-Import Bank is an independent U.S. government agency that is charged with financing and promoting exports of U.S.-manufactured goods and services. The Export-Import Bank’s charter lapsed on July 1, 2015.
10.23.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after the Department of Justice (DOJ) announced that no criminal prosecution would be brought against IRS personnel regarding the targeting of conservative groups: “At every turn President Obama and Administration officials have repeatedly and publicly undermined the investigation into the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups, yet today’s announcement from the Department of Justice is still very disturbing. “I repeatedly called on then Attorney General Holder to appoint a Special Counsel to conduct the investigation to ensure a fair and thorough process but instead the investigation was led by a loyal Democratic donor. Even as far back as last year unnamed DOJ officials leaked information to the media suggesting that the Department did not plan to file criminal charges over the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups. “The Department of Justice investigation did conclude that the actions of IRS personnel involved in the scandal was ‘disquieting’ and in that we all agree. However, the American people should be concerned that this kind of politicization continues to go unchecked by this Administration and a Justice Department charged with pursuing wrongdoing. You can be sure this will be a major issue during the Committee’s DOJ oversight hearing with Attorney General Lynch next week.” Background: In May 2014, the House of Representatives approved by a vote of 250-168 a resolution (H.Res. 565) authored by Congressman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. Chairman Goodlatte’s floor statement can be found here.
10.22.2015	Statement of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte Full Committee Hearing on Oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigation Chairman Goodlatte: Welcome, Director Comey, to your second appearance before the House Judiciary Committee since your confirmation as the seventh Director of the FBI. We are happy to have you here with us today. I once again commend your distinguished service to our nation and am confident you will continue to serve honorably at the helm of the FBI. Today, the FBI continues to face the effects of one of the worst national security leaks in our nation’s history by Edward Snowden two years ago. Over the past year, the House Judiciary Committee spearheaded passage of the USA Freedom Act, a bipartisan law that ended a controversial national security program and provided expanded oversight and transparency of America’s intelligence-gathering. The USA Freedom Act ensures that federal law appropriately respects civil liberties while providing the necessary tools to preserve our collection capabilities and thereby meet our national security responsibilities. I want to again thank Director Comey, and the men and women of the FBI, for working closely with Members of this Committee, to ensure passage and enactment of the USA Freedom Act. Events over the past year in the Middle East have deeply violated the world’s moral compass with scenes of unimaginable brutality at the hands of ISIS. In particular, the appalling and indiscriminate targeting of anyone who fails to abide by ISIS’s stated goal to establish a global caliphate has resulted in the shedding of innocent blood by the most revolting methods. As a radical Islamic terrorist organization, ISIS mandates conformity to an ideology which permits no dissent. As Americans with a strong history of protecting religious liberty, we stand in total opposition to ISIS’s decimation of Christian populations in the Middle East and to its vicious tactics. America is not immune to ISIS’s propaganda of terror. American teenagers have been radicalized, in part, by ISIS’s concerted social media efforts promoting the killing of fellow Americans. And, just last week, a like-minded cyber hacker was indicted for providing ISIS with information on U.S. service members. Director Comey, you are at the forefront of protecting our country from those who patiently plot to do us harm. I am interested today in hearing more about the FBI’s efforts to combat ISIS. Over three years ago, our diplomatic mission to Benghazi, Libya, was attacked by terrorists and four Americans, including our ambassador, were killed. As of today, only one subject has been apprehended and placed on trial. I am interested in hearing more from you about the status of the FBI’s investigation and efforts to bring to justice other terrorist killers who murdered four of our citizens. Separately, it was revealed this past year that former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton used a private email server to conduct her official business while serving as Secretary of State. Two Inspectors General have already reported that classified information was contained within Secretary Clinton’s private email and have referred the matter to the Justice Department. While the apparent lack of transparency related to the use of a private server to conduct the nation’s diplomatic business is troubling, it also raises significant questions concerning the security of national secrets and the potential insight that such a “home-brew” setup may afford a foreign intelligence service into the day-to-day digital record of a top-level government official. On the technology front, the issue known as “Going Dark” has been at the top of the FBI’s concerns in recent years. Encryption technology is exciting and can effectively secure private communications when privacy is needed or desired. In fact, over 15 years ago I led congressional efforts to ensure strong encryption technologies and to ensure that the government could not automatically demand a backdoor key to encryption technologies. This enabled the U.S. encryption market to thrive and produce legitimate encryption technologies for legitimate actors rather than see the market head completely overseas to companies that do not have to comply with basic protections. However, it is true that this technology can also be used by those who wish to do us harm. Adoption of new communications technologies by those intending harm to the American people is outpacing law enforcement’s technological capability to access those communications in legitimate criminal and terrorist investigations. In light of the Administration’s recent announcement that is not currently seeking a legislative solution to its “Going Dark” challenges, I am interested to hear your perspective on whether the Administration’s newly announced approach to work in an ad-hoc fashion with communications providers is an adequate solution. Finally, violent crime appears to be on the rise across the country, particularly around our major metropolitan centers. It is disconcerting to watch the gains of the past decades unravel in an explosion of community violence. We have also witnessed several incidents in the past year that unfortunately have led to increased community tension with law enforcement. This tension will hopefully be resolved through improved communication, accountability, policing practices, and various other initiatives. I hope to hear the FBI’s perspective on the reasons for the increase in crime, and how to ensure that law enforcement officers and the citizens they serve can coexist in a safe and respectful environment. In conclusion, Mr. Director, please know that this Committee sincerely appreciates your efforts to keep us safe, and the heroic actions consistently performed by the men and women of the FBI to protect our country. I look forward to hearing your answers on all of these important topics today, as well as on other issues of significance to the FBI and our nation. More on today’s hearing can be found here.
10.22.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of the Inspector General (OIG) report revealing that Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) employees involved in sexual misconduct received bonuses, awards, or other favorable personnel actions: “Today’s Inspector General report raises serious concerns about the disciplinary process at the Drug Enforcement Administration. Not only did the agents involved in sexual misconduct outlined in a previous report escape appropriate punishment, the majority of them received bonuses or other work perks. This is unacceptable and I expect leadership at the DEA to fix its disciplinary process so that instances such as these never happen again in the future. “The House Judiciary Committee will continue to keep a watchful eye on the DEA and will do whatever it takes to see that these problems are fixed by the agency. Leadership at the DEA must crack down on bad behavior so that trust is rebuilt with the American people.” Background: • In March 2015, Chairman Goodlatte issued a statement on the OIG report finding that DEA agents allegedly participated in “sex parties” with prostitutes, some of whom may have been provided by drug cartels. • In April 2015, the Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee held a hearing to analyze misconduct in federal law enforcement. At the hearing, the Deputy Chief Inspector for the Office of Professional Responsibility at the DEA testified about employee misconduct at the agency. • Following the Crime Subcommittee hearing, Chairman Goodlatte issued a statement on the “retirement” of DEA Administrator Michele Leonhart.
10.22.2015	At today’s House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Director James Comey confirmed the investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server for official business. Two Inspectors General have already reported that classified information was contained within Secretary Clinton’s private email and have referred the matter to the Justice Department. During Chairman Goodlatte’s questioning, Director Comey vowed that the investigation will be conducted “promptly, professionally, and independently.” Chairman Goodlatte issued this statement following the comments made by Director Comey: “Contrary to the assumptions of some that the investigation is political, the confirmation by Director Comey that an investigation is being conducted by the FBI ‘promptly, professionally, and independently’ confirms this is a matter worthy of investigation and is not about politics. The Director must follow through with his promise to get to the bottom of these troubling accusations.” Click here to watch Chairman Goodlatte’s exchange with Director Comey. Transcript of Chairman Goodlatte’s exchange with Director Comey: Chairman Goodlatte: The Director of the National Security Agency has said that former Secretary of State Clinton’s private email server would be a sought after target for a foreign intelligence agency. Do you also believe that a foreign intelligence agency, particularly an adversary’s, could benefit from acquiring and exploiting sensitive and classified information of a top level U.S. government official? Director Comey: Mr. Chairman, I respectfully say that’s one I’m not going to comment on. As you know, the FBI is working on a referral given to us by inspectors general in connection with former Secretary Clinton’s use of her private email server. As you also know about the FBI, we don’t talk about our investigations while we’re doing them. This is one I’m following very closely and get briefed on regularly. I’m confident we have the people and the resources to do it in the way I believe we do all our work, which is promptly, professionally, independently. But I don’t want to do anything that would compromise my ability to do it that way by commenting beyond that. Chairman Goodlatte: Well how about answering my generic question not directed at the specifics of that case but rather the question whether you believe that a foreign intelligence agency particularly an adversary could benefit from acquiring and exploiting sensitive and classified information of a top level U.S. government official. Director Comey: Thank you Mr. Chairman, I hope you’ll understand why I don’t think it’s appropriate to answer that. I want to preserve my ability to oversee this investigation in a way that is both in reality independent and fair, and is perceived that way. I believe the Bureau is three things: we are competent, we are independent, and we’re honest, and I want to make sure the American people have confidence that that’s the way we are doing our business, and if I start answering questions like yours which is a reasonable question, I worry that I could infringe upon that.
10.22.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after President Obama vetoed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2016: “With just a stroke of his pen, President Obama himself is threatening our national security. His veto today of legislation to authorize funding for our troops, at the level the President requested, is disappointing. This was an opportunity for the President to lead on a bill that makes important reforms to wasteful programs, ensures our troops receive benefits they’ve earned, and provides resources for cyber defense. Instead, his veto only serves to stand in the way of our military’s mission to provide for the common defense. “At a time when our nation faces numerous security threats from the likes of ISIS, Iran, and North Korea, it is critical that the Department of Defense has the authority to carry out vital programs. Ironically, the President has vetoed this legislation even though just last week he announced he would extend our military presence in Afghanistan. The NDAA overwhelmingly passed the House and Senate only to be stopped on the President’s desk as a result of political posturing. The President is prioritizing signing deals with Iran and moving prisoners out of Guantanamo Bay over our nation’s troops. It is unacceptable to play political games on the backs of our men and women in uniform.”
10.21.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors’ unanimous decision to remain a sanctuary city: “Shame on San Francisco’s Board of Supervisors for preserving its reckless sanctuary policy that led to the death of Kate Steinle. Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, the unlawful criminal alien who murdered Kate, had already been deported five times and was convicted of multiple felonies and yet he was released by authorities. Why do San Francisco officials think it is more important to shield dangerous criminal aliens from immigration enforcement than to protect the American people, including residents of their own city? “The decision by the San Francisco Board of Supervisors once again demonstrates that the Obama Administration needs to crack down on dangerous sanctuary jurisdictions. It’s not enough for Secretary Johnson to publicly criticize sanctuary policies while refusing to take meaningful steps to end them. How many Americans must die at the hands of criminal aliens before the Obama Administration addresses this public safety crisis?” Background: The House Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee held a hearing in July 2015 to examine the dangerous policies adopted by some state and local governments that refuse to honor the federal government’s authority to enforce immigration laws, and the Obama Administration’s complicity in this problem. In late July 2015, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, which if enacted would be a good first step toward ending sanctuary city policies. Legislation authored by Immigration and Border Security Chairman Trey Gowdy – H.R. 1148, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act – contains the best legislative solution to end sanctuary cities and the Obama Administration’s policies that encourage them.
10.20.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today urged Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson to remove thousands of dangerous criminal aliens set to be released from federal prison next month. On April 30, 2014, the United States Sentencing Commission approved Amendment 782, which modified the United States Sentencing Guidelines to lower the base offense level for federal controlled substances offenses. Amendment 782 was made retroactive by the Commission. As a consequence, approximately 2,000 convicted criminal aliens whose sentences were reduced are now eligible for release from the Federal Bureau of Prisons on or about November 1, 2015. In the letter to Secretary Johnson, Chairman Goodlatte urges Secretary Johnson to remove these criminal aliens from the United States, noting that they are the highest enforcement priority based on the Obama Administration’s own written policy for priority enforcement. Below is the text of Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to Secretary Johnson. October 20, 2015 The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: On April 30, 2014, the United States Sentencing Commission approved Amendment 782, which modified the United States Sentencing Guidelines to lower the base offense level for federal controlled substances offenses. Amendment 782 was made retroactive by the Commission. As a consequence, approximately 6,000 convicted criminals whose sentences were reduced by the sentencing court pursuant to Amendment 782 are now eligible for release from the Federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) on or about November 1, 2015, and approximately 8,500 additional prisoners will be eligible for early release by November 1, 2016. Of the initial 6,000 inmates who will be released early, a significant number – approximately 2,000 – are criminal aliens. These aliens are removable from the United States, either because they are unlawfully present or because of their criminal convictions. In fact, based on their convictions for drug trafficking offenses, such aliens are the highest enforcement priority (Priority 1) for the Department of Homeland Security, based on your own written policy for priority enforcement, issued on November 20, 2014. During your testimony before the House Judiciary Committee on July 14, 2015, Committee Members questioned you about the early release of aliens under Amendment 782. In response, you stated, “I’m aware of this issue. I’m aware of the adjustment to the Federal Sentencing Guidelines. I’m aware that a number of individuals will be released as a result. I’m aware that a number of them are probably undocumented, and we’ve been working with DOJ to do the most effective thing for public safety in that regard.” Given your response, I fully expect that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will issue a detainer with the BOP for each alien expected to be released pursuant to Amendment 782, and that each alien will be taken into custody by ICE, as required by the Immigration and Nationality Act, for purposes of initiating removal proceedings or to execute the removal order of each alien who is already subject to a final order of removal from the United States. Please confirm whether my expectation will be met and that the Department of Homeland Security is committed to ridding our streets of aliens peddling dangerous and illicit drugs to our children. Additionally, please provide the following requested information: 1. The specific number of aliens who will be released early by BOP pursuant to Amendment 782. 2. Of those alien prisoners, how many have ICE detainers or requests for notification? 3. Does ICE expect to issue detainers or requests for notification for every alien identified in (1) above prior to the prisoner’s release from BOP custody? 4. Does ICE expect to take custody of every alien identified in (1) above for the purpose of initiating removal proceedings or to execute a final order of removal? If not, why not? 5. Please provide the number of aliens identified in (1) above who will not be taken into ICE custody upon release from BOP and provide an explanation for each alien as to why ICE will not take the alien into custody. Please provide this information to me by October 30, 2015. If your office has any questions, please contact Tracy Short, Counsel, Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security, at (202) 225-3926. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
10.19.2015	Representatives Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Steve Womack (R-AR) released the following statement regarding the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Inspector General research into lifecycle impacts of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): “We are pleased that the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Inspector General (IG) is looking into the effectiveness of the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS). While we believe the RFS was implemented with good intentions, the reality is that, given current conditions, the policy is flawed and is in need of reform. The current RFS has surpassed a sustainable state and is hurting American consumers, energy producers, livestock and poultry producers, food manufacturers, and retailers. The negative impacts of the RFS are known, and it is our hope that the IG’s report provides much-needed clarity to the conflicting information the EPA has shared regarding the benefits of the RFS.” In February 2015, Reps. Costa, Goodlatte, Welch, and Womack introduced H.R. 704, the RFS Reform Act. The RFS Reform Act eliminates the corn-based ethanol requirement, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels.
10.15.2015	Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is blaming local “sanctuary” policies for allowing “potentially deportable” individuals with “significant criminal histories” back into communities. The comment follows ICE’s recent four-day sweep in Southern California that led to the arrest of 244 immigrants with criminal records, many of whom previously entered the country illegally and have been convicted of at least one felony. In a letter to Assistant Secretary Sarah Saldaña, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are raising concerns about avoidable safety risks and taxpayer costs associated with the apprehension of criminals who were already in law enforcement custody, but were released based on a local “sanctuary” policy. These policies, which have been adopted by a number of states and communities, require local law enforcement to ignore federal immigration requests to hold certain criminals or notify the agency before their release. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson recently called sanctuary policies “unacceptable,” stating, “It is counterproductive to public safety to have this level of resistance to working with our immigration enforcement personnel.” Johnson delivered the remarks in San Francisco, where Kate Steinle was murdered on July 1 by a criminal immigrant with multiple felony convictions. Prior to the murder, the suspect, Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, was in local police custody, but was released despite a federal detainer request because of a local sanctuary policy. The lawmakers are seeking details of the four-day manhunt as well as the immigration and criminal backgrounds of the individuals arrested. The full text of the Goodlatte-Grassley letter follows. October 15, 2015 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION Sarah Saldaña Assistant Secretary U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20536 Dear Assistant Secretary Saldaña: In August, the Los Angeles Times reported that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) arrested 244 immigrants with criminal records as part of a four-day sweep across Southern California. Reportedly, the majority of these individuals entered the country illegally and were subsequently convicted of at least one felony, including violent crimes, weapons, or sex abuse charges. Disturbingly, based on statements made by ICE, it appears that these dangerous felons who entered the country illegally were freely roaming our streets due in part to sanctuary city policies at the state and local level. According to an agency spokesman: One of the challenges we’re facing is because of state law and local policies, more individuals who are potentially deportable with significant criminal histories are being released onto the street instead of being turned over to ICE. Operations such as the four-day manhunt in question involve costs to the federal taxpayer and inherent safety risks – both of which could be avoided if state and local jurisdictions simply agreed to hold these dangerous criminal aliens until ICE can take them into custody. Accordingly, by no later than October 30, 2015, please provide written responses to the following questions: 1. How much did it cost to fund this four-day operation? 2. How many of the 244 individuals had previously been in ICE custody but released? For each of these individuals, please explain the reason for the release and provide full criminal and immigration histories. 3. How many of the 244 individuals were the subject of ICE’s detainer requests that were ignored by state or local law enforcement agencies? For each of these individuals, please provide full criminal and immigration histories. 4. How many of the 244 individuals were in the country illegally? Please number your responses according to their corresponding questions. If you have any questions, please contact Jay Lim of the Senate Judiciary Committee at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short of the House Judiciary Committee at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
10.14.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) are seeking details on how federal immigration officials will address two alien sex offenders. In a letter today to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson, the lawmakers raise concerns that local sanctuary policies and new federal immigration practices may allow the sex offenders to avoid deportation and be released back into American communities. Both sex offenders were arrested this month and are currently in law enforcement custody. Arturo Ocon-Garcia was arrested October 5 by Customs and Border Patrol, where he remains detained. He was previously convicted of sex offenses in Chicago, which has policies requiring local law enforcement to ignore immigration requests from federal authorities. The lawmakers are asking how the Department of Homeland Security plans to ensure that Ocon-Garcia will not be released back into the public if he is transferred out of federal custody. Melvin Perez Bonilla was arrested October 5 by Arlington County Police and has admitted to multiple sex offenses. However, because Bonilla does not have any prior criminal convictions, he may not trigger any federal immigration actions – such as the issuance of a detainer to transfer him to federal custody – based on the administration’s new lax Priority Enforcement Program. This program narrows the category of criminal immigrants the administration will seek to remove from the country. Grassley and Goodlatte are asking for more information surrounding the sex offenders’ immigration statuses as well as how the agency plans to respond to their recent charges. Full text of the Grassley-Goodlatte letter follows. Click here to view the signed letter. Dear Secretary Johnson: We write regarding two alien sex offenders that were taken into law enforcement custody earlier this month. We have concerns about how these two criminal aliens will be addressed by your Department, especially considering that the Administration’s new Priority Enforcement Program (PEP) fails to address many criminal aliens. First, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) announced on October 5 that it arrested Arturo Ocon-Garcia for illegal entry. Ocon-Garcia was convicted of a sex offense in Chicago, Illinois. The City of Chicago is well known to have sanctuary policies that protect illegal aliens. Second, on October 7, Arlington County Police arrested Melvin Perez Bonilla, who has confessed to multiple attempted sexual assaults, and is believed to be responsible for another sexual attack in August 2015. As far as we know, Bonilla would not fall under the administration’s priorities under PEP because he does not have a prior criminal conviction. According to reports, these two sex offenders are in law enforcement custody. We want to know what actions your Department has taken or will take to obtain custody and remove these two criminals. In order to better understand Ocon-Garcia and Bonilla’s immigration and criminal histories, we are seeking answers about their entry to and residency into the United States. Please provide both Committees on the Judiciary, no later than October 23, with the immigration history and status, executive summary, criminal history and any other information that may be readily available surrounding Ocon-Garcia and Bonilla. Furthermore, please provide the Committees with the following documents and answers to the below questions as soon as possible, but not later than October 23: 1. Has CBP or Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) ever encountered Ocon-Garcia or Bonilla? If so, please provide details. 2. Were any detainers or requests for notification about the release of Ocon-Garcia or Bonilla issued by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to any state, local or federal jurisdiction or agency? 3. We have seen numerous examples of illegal immigrants who were in federal custody, but were handed over to local law enforcement agencies with sanctuary polices, and subsequently released again into the public. Most recently, the Bureau of Prisons released Juan Francisco Sanchez to San Francisco County based on a 20 year-old warrant for marijuana possession. Stunningly, San Francisco County released Sanchez to the street without prosecuting him or notifying ICE. That reckless decision led to the death of Kate Steinle. a. Is DHS aware of any outstanding warrants for Ocon-Garcia? If so, please provide the jurisdiction and the reason for the warrant. b. If Ocon-Garcia is handed over to a local law enforcement agency for an outstanding warrant, will ICE issue a detainer or request for notification of release? c. If the local law enforcement agency declines to honor a detainer or notify ICE, what action will DHS take to ensure that this sex offender is not free to walk and reoffend? 4. Will ICE issue a detainer for Bonilla? If not, why not? 5. Did Ocon-Garcia or Bonilla ever apply for any immigration benefits, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that Ocon-Garcia or Bonilla may have submitted. 6. Please provide a copy of the alien files for Ocon-Garcia and Bonilla. 7. Please provide any other information collected or maintained by DHS, including ICE or CBP, regarding Ocon-Garcia or Bonilla. 8. If Ocon-Garcia or Bonilla had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to their arrest in connection with the above-mentioned crimes, would either of them have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under PEP? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? Should you have any questions, please contact Kathy Nuebel Kovarik at (202) 224-5225 or Tracy Short at (202) 225-3926. Thank you for your cooperation. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
10.13.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in response to Planned Parenthood’s intention to end its acceptance of reimbursements for fetal tissue donations: “While Planned Parenthood has stated its intention to end its practice of accepting reimbursements for fetal tissue donation, it has not stated its commitment to end its horrific practice of harvesting fetal tissue. This announcement by Planned Parenthood does not change the focus of the House Judiciary Committee’s investigation into Planned Parenthood’s practice of procuring fetal tissue as it relates to the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act and the Born-Alive Infants Protection Act. Furthermore, Planned Parenthood’s recent announcement certainly does not excuse the horrific practices brought to light in the videos released by the Center for Medical Progress.” Click here to learn more about the Committee’s investigation into Planned Parenthood.
10.12.2015	On Friday, the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals moved to temporarily block implementation nationwide of the Environmental Protection Agency’s Waters of the United States rule. Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement on the ruling: “The 6th Circuit’s ruling affirms what many in industries across the nation have known for some time: the EPA’s Waters of the U.S. rule is simply unworkable federal government overreach. The costly impacts of this rule would be far-reaching, hitting farmers, small businesses, municipalities, and local economies squarely in the pocketbook. Protecting America’s waterways is critical, but this should be a collaborative approach. We need common sense policies that will protect water quality without limiting economic growth and unfairly over-regulating local agricultural producers and economies, like those in the Sixth District of Virginia. The court’s ruling to block this EPA power grab is encouraging, and I am hopeful they will stop it once and for all.” Background: The EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers recently issued a rule to expand the scope of the term “waters of the United States,” which are those waters that are regulated under the Clean Water Act. This move would expand the EPA’s regulatory authority over waterways. On May 12, 2015, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which would require the Obama Administration to withdraw the rule.
10.09.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after meeting with U.S. Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy to discuss the recent Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General’s report detailing Secret Service personnel’s inappropriate access to the personal information of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), which was a violation of federal law: “Today I met with Director Clancy to discuss the inappropriate behavior of a number of Secret Service personnel as detailed in the recent Inspector General’s report. I find the blatant disregard for Department policy and federal law completely unacceptable, especially from Secret Service personnel who are charged with protecting and upholding our nation’s laws. “In our meeting, I once again expressed my deep concern over the actions of those Secret Service personnel who illegally accessed and disseminated the personal information of Chairman Chaffetz and I expect the agency to hold these employees accountable. Director Clancy agreed that these individuals should face disciplinary action and he reiterated his commitment to making necessary improvements at the agency to rein in abuses and ensure that incidents like this one never happen again. I will continue to closely monitor this situation to ensure that this is the case.” Background: Following The release of the Inspector General’s report, Chairman Goodlatte sent a letter to Director Clancy expressing concern over Secret Service personnel’s inappropriate access to personal information of Chairman Chaffetz, which was a violation of the Privacy Act.
10.08.2015	Statement of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte Hearing on Planned Parenthood Exposed: Examining Abortion Procedures and Medical Ethics at the Nation's Largest Abortion Provider Chairman Goodlatte: A child’s heart begins to form three weeks after conception. By the fifth week, her heart begins to beat, pumping blood throughout her little body and her arm and leg buds begin to grow. Her brain begins to develop. Her eyes and ears begin to form. By the sixth week, her hands and feet begin to form. The following week, her toes can be seen. During this time, she kicks, and will jump if startled. By eight weeks, the baby’s facial features become more distinct. In weeks nine through twelve, the baby may begin sucking her thumb. By ten weeks, she can yawn. By eleven weeks, she can make a wide variety of facial expressions, including a smile. By twelve weeks, which marks the end of the first trimester, she is capable of making a fist. But on any given day, her developing parts, including her heart and brain, may be harvested at the many Planned Parenthood clinics that participate in this practice across the country. If her organs are harvested, she will not carry a name. At most, she will be referred to as a “product of conception.” Despite the horrific nature of these practices, Planned Parenthood’s outrage has been directed not at harvesting of baby parts, but at the people who caught them talking about doing it on video. Indeed, Planned Parenthood argues that the videos released by the Center for Medical Progress are “highly edited,” but it is noteworthy to point out that the group hired by Planned Parenthood to review the videos found that their “analysis did not reveal widespread evidence of substantive video manipulation.” A second analysis commissioned by Alliance Defending Freedom reached a similar conclusion. According to that report, the recorded media files indicate “that the video recordings are authentic and show no evidence of manipulation or editing.” Today’s hearing is about the content contained within the videos, including admissions made by Planned Parenthood officials that raise serious questions about the treatment of our nation’s children who may be born alive following a failed abortion. For example, the Vice President of Planned Parenthood of the Rocky Mountains stated that in some cases, babies are being born intact. She further stated: “Sometimes, we get- if someone delivers before we get to see them for a procedure, then they are intact, but that’s not what we go for.” To ensure babies born alive in such instances are given necessary medical care, the House passed H.R. 3504, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act, which requires that babies surviving an abortion be given the same treatment and care that would be given to any child naturally born premature at the same age, and imposes criminal penalties at the federal level to prevent the killing of innocent human babies born alive. Moreover, these videos indicate abortion practitioners may have adopted new abortion procedures to avoid the risk of violating the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. In the first video, the Senior Director of Medical Services at Planned Parenthood Federation of America stated that “the Federal Abortion Ban is a law, and laws are up to interpretation.” Today’s hearing is in part intended to explore what interpretations by abortion practitioners have arisen since the law’s passage. I look forward to hearing from all our witnesses here today.
10.08.2015	As part of the House Judiciary Committee’s criminal justice reform initiative, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), Congressman Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Congressman Mike Bishop (R-Mich.), and Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-Calif.) today unveiled bipartisan legislation to reform federal sentencing. The Sentencing Reform Act of 2015 reduces certain mandatory minimums for drug offenses, reduces the three-strike mandatory life sentence to 25 years, broadens the existing safety valve for low-level drug offenders, and provides judges with greater discretion in determining appropriate sentences while ensuring that serious violent felons do not get out early. The bill also contains sentencing enhancements for Fentanyl trafficking, a highly addictive and deadly drug that is becoming a growing epidemic in the United States. The Sentencing Reform Act of 2015 is the first bill that is a result of the House Judiciary Committee’s criminal justice reform initiative. The Committee continues to work on additional bills that address other aspects of our criminal justice system, including over-criminalization, prison and reentry reform – including youth and juvenile justice issues – improved criminal procedures and policing strategies, and civil asset forfeiture reform. The Committee will roll out more bills addressing these topics over the coming weeks. Chairman Goodlatte: “The House Judiciary Committee has been hard at work on a number of bills to improve our nation’s criminal justice system, and I am pleased that we have reached a bipartisan solution to reform federal sentencing requirements. The Sentencing Reform Act makes commonsense changes to the front-end of the criminal justice system to ensure our federal laws effectively and appropriately punish wrongdoers, work as efficiently and fairly as possible, and do not waste taxpayer dollars. It also ensures that serious violent criminals serve the full time for their crimes in prison. The House Judiciary Committee plans to move this legislation soon and will roll out additional criminal justice reform bills over the coming weeks.” Other Judiciary Committee cosponsors of the Sentencing Reform Act include Rep. Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Rep. Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.), Rep. Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Rep. Ted Deutch (D-Fla), Rep. Mimi Walters (R-Calif.), Rep. Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Rep. Dave Trott (R-Mich.), and Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.). A one-pager on the Sentencing Reform Act can be found here and section-by-section can be found here.
10.07.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) issued the following statement on the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative and announced a press conference for tomorrow. “For the past several months, the House Judiciary Committee has been working on a bipartisan basis on several bills to ensure our federal criminal laws and regulations appropriately punish wrongdoers, are effectively and appropriately enforced, operate with fairness and compassion, protect individual freedom, safeguard civil liberties, work as efficiently as possible, do not impede state efforts, and do not waste taxpayer dollars. “As a result of this work, we are pleased to announce that we, along with Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee and a bipartisan group of leaders on this issue, will introduce companion legislation to the sentencing reform portion of the Senate bill unveiled last week by Senators Grassley, Durbin, Cornyn, Leahy, and others. “We are also continuing our work on additional bills that address other aspects of our criminal justice system, including over-criminalization, prison and reentry reform, including youth and juvenile justice issues, improved criminal procedures and policing strategies, and civil asset forfeiture reform and we expect to roll out more bills addressing these topics over the coming weeks.” Additional Background: In June 2015, building upon the work of the Committee’s Over-Criminalization Task Force, Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers announced a criminal justice legislative reform initiative to address problems within our nation's criminal justice system. The House Judiciary Committee then held a criminal justice reform listening session and heard from over a dozen Members of Congress on this issue. More information on the House Judiciary Committee’s work on criminal justice reform can be found here.
10.07.2015	Yesterday evening, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) called on the Department of Homeland Security to back words with actions when dealing with state and local jurisdictions that refuse to comply with federal immigration requests. States, cities and counties that refuse to comply with the federal government for immigration enforcement purposes are commonly referred to as “sanctuary” jurisdictions. Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson recently said it is “not acceptable to have no policy of cooperation with immigration enforcement.” However, the Department of Homeland Security has not taken demonstrable action to address the unwillingness of sanctuary jurisdictions to work with federal immigration authorities. More than 12,000 federal detainer requests were ignored by state and local jurisdictions in 2014. Moreover, in June of this year, the administration rolled out a new program that reduces the “enforcement priorities” and announced it would not seek the custody of many criminals who are in the country illegally. In a letter to Secretary Jeh Johnson, the lawmakers detailed three recent cases in which people have been assaulted or murdered by individuals who are in the country illegally. In each case, the suspects were in law enforcement custody, but were later released because of a sanctuary policy or because of a lack of action taken by Homeland Security officials. The lawmakers are requesting an update from the Department on its efforts to engage state and local law enforcement to promote greater cooperation with federal immigration requests. The full text of their letter to Johnson follows. The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, DC 20528 Dear Secretary Johnson: It has been 97 days since Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant while innocently walking along a San Francisco pier. In that time, sanctuary policies that allowed this murder to happen have not changed and the American public is still at risk. Consider the following cases: On July 24, 2015, Marilyn Pharis was brutally raped, tortured, and murdered in her home in Santa Maria, California, by an illegal immigrant who was released from custody because the county sheriff does not honor detainers. On July 27, 2015, an illegal immigrant was arrested and accused of killing 60-year-old Margaret Kostelnik in Ravenna Road, Ohio. Before murdering Ms. Kostelnik, the man allegedly attempted to rape a 14-year-old girl and shoot a woman in a nearby park. The suspect was also previously in the custody of law enforcement but released because your Department refused to issue a detainer and take custody of the suspect. On July 30, a two-year old girl was brutally beaten by an illegal immigrant in San Luis Obisbo County, California. He was released from local custody despite a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainer and extensive criminal history. These are just a few examples that highlight the need for changes to sanctuary policies. Last month, you stated the following: "It is counterproductive to public safety to have this level of resistance to working with our immigration enforcement personnel. It is simply, in my judgment, not acceptable to have no policy of cooperation with immigration enforcement. We're all interested in getting criminals off the streets." While your words are encouraging, the lack of action does not instill confidence that the administration is serious about the problem. In fact, your Department continues to employ the Priority Enforcement Program, and a policy of requesting cooperation from states and locals only when an individual is convicted of a serious crime. The administration is intent on issuing fewer detainers, even on individuals who may pose a threat but do not have a criminal conviction. Such policies have allowed illegal immigrants to commit crimes and, in the case of the two-year old victim mentioned above, to roam free in our communities. According to news reports, Francisco Javier Chavez allegedly beat his girlfriend’s two-year-old daughter, resulting in both arms being broken, a broken femur, a compressed spine, a urinary tract infection and a fever of 107 degrees. Chavez skipped his court date on August 18 and is allegedly currently at large. In order to better understand how Mr. Chavez evaded immigration authorities and removal from the country, we are seeking answers about his entry to and residency in the United States. Please provide both Committees on the Judiciary, no later than October 20, with the immigration history and status, executive summary, criminal history and any other information that may be readily available surrounding Mr. Chavez. Furthermore, please provide the Committees with the following documents and answers to the below questions as soon as possible, but not later than October 20: 1. Has Customs and Border Protection (CBP) or ICE ever encountered Mr. Chavez? If so, please provide details. 2. Were any detainers or requests for notification about the release of Mr. Chavez issued by the Department of Homeland Security to any state, local or federal jurisdiction or agency? 3. Did Mr. Chavez ever apply for any immigration benefit, including deferred action? If so, was any application approved? Please provide copies of any applications that Mr. Chavez may have submitted. 4. Please provide a copy of the alien file for Mr. Chavez. 5. Please provide any information collected or maintained by ICE regarding Mr. Chavez. 6. Please provide any information collected or maintained by CBP regarding Mr. Chavez. 7. Please provide any other information collected or maintained by DHS regarding Mr. Chavez. 8. If Mr. Chavez had been encountered by DHS enforcement officials prior to his arrest in connection with the brutal beating of a two-year-old girl, would he have met the requirements to be considered a priority for removal under the Administration’s new Priority Enforcement Program? If so, please provide the exact reason for such consideration. If not, why not? Additionally, your previous response to Senator Grassley on August 27th about sanctuary jurisdictions did not detail the progress made by the Department on this issue. We would appreciate an update on the Department’s efforts to engage state and local law enforcement on immigration enforcement. Your previous response also failed to comply with Senator Grassley’s request to provide any copies of emails or other communication with state and local officials to understand how the administration is rectifying the problem. Sanctuary policies have allowed thousands of people with criminal records to be released into our communities. Last year, more than 12,000 detainers issued by your Department were ignored by state and local law enforcement agencies. If last year’s number of declined detainers are any indication, there have been as many as 3,000 detainers ignored since Kate Steinle’s murder. On average, that is over thirty per day. It is time to make it clear to sanctuary jurisdictions that people in the country illegally do not deserve safe harbor. For every day that passes, the potential for another tragedy only increases. Therefore, we reiterate our concern about the administration’s Priority Enforcement Program because it allows criminal aliens who have evaded conviction to be released to commit additional crimes. We encourage you to reconsider this policy and make it clear that sanctuary policies will no longer be tolerated. We await a more thorough response on this issue as well as answers to the new questions we have posed with regard to Mr. Chavez. We appreciate your cooperation to ensure that we do more to protect the American people and do everything we can to prevent other families from losing loved ones to criminal aliens. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Bob Goodlatte Chairman Chairman Senate Committee on the Judiciary House Committee on the Judiciary
10.06.2015	The House of Representatives today passed by voice vote the Adoptive Family Relief Act (S.1300). The bipartisan, bicameral bill allows the State Department to waive visa renewal fees for American families adopting children from overseas in circumstances when those children are unable to come to the United States before their visa expires. The Adoptive Family Relief Act, now headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law, will provide immediate financial relief to hundreds of American families who have adopted children from the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), which has refused to provide the necessary exit paperwork and bureaucratic approvals to let adopted children leave the country for the past two years. Under current law, an immigrant visa for adoptees expires if it is not used within six months of issuance and it costs $325 to renew. The exit permit ban in the DRC has been in place since September 2013, which means if a visa was issued six months before the ban and the family was unable to use the visa due to circumstances beyond their control, by now they would have had to renew the visa five times to keep it current for a total cost of $1,625 rather than $325. Under the Adoptive Family Relief Act, the State Department is able to waive the renewal fee for visas issued on or after March 23, 2013, and refund visa fees that have already been paid since that time. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below praising the passage of this legislation: “For no good reason, the Congolese government has for years refused to provide the necessary paperwork to allow legally adopted children to leave the country. As a result, hundreds of children are needlessly waiting in orphanages when they could be at home with their adoptive parents in the United States. Some families from the Sixth District of Virginia have been affected by this stonewalling and their grief is unimaginable. While passage of the Adoptive Family Relief Act does not change the DRC’s policy, it does provide much needed financial relief to the families waiting for their children to come home. I urge the President to sign this bill into law quickly and to put pressure on the Congolese government to change its policies.”
10.02.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent a letter to Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy expressing deep concern over the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General’s report detailing Secret Service personnel’s inappropriate access to the personal information of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), which was a violation of federal law. In the letter Chairman Goodlatte writes: “Dear Director Clancy: “I am deeply concerned with the findings in the recent report by the Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General on the inappropriate access and dissemination of Representative Jason Chaffetz’s personal information. The report confirms that earlier this year a high-ranking Secret Service official encouraged the dissemination of personal information of Representative Jason Chaffetz and over 40 Secret Service agents improperly accessed and disseminated this information, in violation of federal law. “No one, whether a Member of Congress or a private citizen, should have private information violated in this manner. This incident is precisely why Americans do not trust the federal government with their personal information. “More importantly, it is deeply troubling that a leader at the United States Secret Service thought it appropriate to try to leak this information to the press. It is shameful that a person in such a position of trust would engage in this sort of activity in an attempt to smear the reputation of a Member of Congress and to discredit the oversight work he was performing on behalf of the Congress and the American people in an effort to clean up endemic problems within the agency. “This incident also raises important questions about who has access to the Secret Service database containing sensitive information, and what controls are in place to prevent and identify such abuses. In addition, this incident highlights significant concerns about how information related to important incidents, including time-sensitive disciplinary matters, move up the chain of command. I am concerned at the length of time it took for you to find out about this matter, and the repeated inaction by those in leadership positions in the agency when this matter was brought to their attention. I respectfully request a meeting with you to discuss these issues and your actions to address them, as soon as possible. “As Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the Secret Service, I am committed to continuing the committee’s oversight of the Secret Service in an effort to improve its operations and ensure accountability at all levels of the agency. Please provide to me as quickly as possible, but no later than COB October 7th, a detailed description of your efforts to hold these Secret Service personnel accountable and ensure this type of incident never happens again.”
10.01.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued this statement following the release of the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General’s report detailing U.S. Secret Service personnel’s inappropriate access to the personal information of House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah): “This report confirms that earlier this year a high-ranking Secret Service official encouraged the dissemination of personal information of Representative Jason Chaffetz and over 40 Secret Service agents improperly accessed and disseminated this information, in violation of federal law. No one, whether they are a Member of Congress or a private citizen, should have their private information violated in this manner. This incident is precisely why Americans do not trust the federal government with their personal information. “The actions by these Secret Service employees are in clear violation of the Privacy Act and Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson must hold all necessary personnel accountable. “Unfortunately, this is the latest in a series of scandals and failures on the part of the Secret Service in recent years. The House Judiciary Committee will continue conducting aggressive oversight of the Secret Service in an effort to improve its operations and ensure accountability at all levels of the agency.”
09.30.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement regarding passage of H.R. 3495, the Women's Public Health and Safety Act. H.R. 3495 passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 236-193 yesterday. “The government formed by the United States Constitution was to be limited in power, with the 10th Amendment making clear that certain powers remain with the states. Recent revelations about the alleged practices of Planned Parenthood have called into question abortion providers that receive federal funds. H.R. 3495, passed by the House, makes it clear that the states have the flexibility to exclude any providers who provide elective abortion services, not just Planned Parenthood, from receiving taxpayer dollars in the form of Medicaid funds. This bill is a step in the right direction in preventing states from being forced to fund abortion providers and stopping taxpayer dollars from going to those performing this horrific practice.”
09.28.2015	A bicameral group of lawmakers is questioning the constitutionality of the Department of Commerce’s plans to transition critical Internet infrastructure systems away from U.S. government stewardship and oversight. In a letter to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Representative Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), and Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) asked whether the plan would result in the transfer of government property, which could violate Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution. At issue are key components of the Internet’s infrastructure, collectively known as the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) functions, which enable the efficient operation of the Internet. Included is the management of the root zone file, which was developed by taxpayer-funded Department of Defense researchers, and which remains designated as a “national IT asset” by the U.S. government. Article IV, Section 3 of the Constitution grants Congress the sole authority to transfer government property. If this file—or other government-developed components of the Internet—are determined to be the property of the government, then transferring their control to a nongovernmental entity without congressional consent, as the Department of Commerce has proposed, may violate the Constitution. The Commerce Department’s contracts with the organizations that administer Internet name and address system policies explicitly state that the root zone file is “the property of the U.S. government,” and changes cannot be made to the file without government approval. Congress has also passed legislation blocking federal funding for efforts to relinquish stewardship of the domain name system, including the root zone file. To ensure that Congress is informed of any government property that may be transferred without its approval, the lawmakers asked GAO to study the government property implications of the Department of Commerce’s proposal. They also asked GAO to determine whether the agency has the legal authority to conduct such a transfer to a nongovernmental entity without congressional approval. Text of the letter can be found here.
09.25.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the announcement that Speaker John Boehner will resign from the U.S. House of Representatives at the end of October: “Speaker Boehner has been a tireless public servant for his constituents. I respect his courageous decision to step down at the end of October in an effort to unite the Republican Conference, and thank him for his leadership in the House, as well as for his personal friendship over the years. I wish John and Debbie the best as they start a new chapter in their lives. The fight for the conservative cause must go on. Now is the time for House Republicans to renew our resolve to unite and plot a path forward to address the issues facing the American people today.”
09.24.2015	Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. America’s voters sent the 114th Congress to Washington to help turn around this Nation’s struggling economy. For more than six-and-a-half long years, America’s families and workers have been waiting for the Obama Administration to join with Congress to pass measures that will adequately restore jobs and growth to our land. The job clearly has not been finished. Throughout the Obama Administration, America’s growth rate has been historically anemic. The truest measure of unemployment—the rate that includes both discouraged workers and those who cannot find a full-time job—remains over ten percent. Our labor force participation rate remains mired among historic lows. Median real household income, meanwhile, is five percent lower than in June 2009, when the recession officially ended. Median incomes are supposed to rise during economic recoveries, not fall. The Obama Administration has managed to buck the historical trend. However, the President at least pays lip service to the need to unleash construction projects. If one thinks back to the start of the Obama Administration, one can remember President Obama’s plan to solve the Great Recession with the nearly $1 Trillion Stimulus Bill. The Stimulus was supposed to work, according to the President, because America had “shovel-ready” projects, from which new, good-paying jobs would be created, once the Stimulus was enacted, and the money was doled out. While many, including myself, disagreed with the fundamental premise of the Stimulus Bill, the President blamed his Stimulus Bill’s failure on the lack of “shovel-ready” projects. As he put it, “shovel-ready was not as shovel-ready as we expected”. Mr. Chairman, that is the problem that today’s legislation—the RAPID Act—is intended to solve. This legislation fulfills post-Stimulus-Bill calls of leaders in Congress, the White House, the President’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness, and the private sector to streamline the review of federal construction permit applications. It contains well-thought-out, balanced reforms that provide for more efficient and effective decision-making. Stated succinctly, the RAPID Act gives lead federal agencies more responsibility to conduct and conclude efficient inter-agency reviews of permit requests; demands that any entity challenging a final permitting decision in court first have presented the substance of its claims during the agency review process; and, requires that lawsuits challenging permitting decisions be filed within six months of the decisions—not six years, as the law currently allows. These are simple but powerful reforms that will allow good projects to move forward more quickly, delivering high-quality jobs and improvements to Americans’ daily lives. Prior iterations of the RAPID Act passed the House three times during the 112th and 113th Congresses, each time with bipartisan support. Once enacted, this legislation will help to create millions of high-paying jobs and make government decision-making more efficient and effective. Importantly, it will also continue to ensure that the impacts of new projects on the environment can be considered responsibly before permitting decisions are made. I thank Regulatory Reform Subcommittee Chairman Marino of Pennsylvania for introducing this legislation and urge all of my colleagues to vote for the RAPID Act. I reserve the balance of my time. Click here to learn more about the RAPID Act.
09.23.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte will host a Sixth District Women’s Conference in Harrisonburg on Tuesday, October 6. Attendees will hear from leaders in government, business, education, law, and other fields. Congresswoman Virginia Foxx (R-NC) will be the keynote speaker. This event is free and open to the public. More information is available here. Goodlatte: “During my travels around the Sixth District, I have had the distinct opportunity to meet many inspiring women. Whether they are a CEO, a teacher, an elected official, a doctor, a stay-at-home mom, a soldier, or a coach, I know that without their contributions, our economy and communities in the Sixth District and throughout the nation would not thrive. I hope that this conference will be a positive opportunity for women in the Sixth District to engage with others, access valuable resources, and hear more from our speakers about some of the issues facing our nation today. I am honored to have Congresswoman Virginia Foxx as the keynote speaker. She is a tireless public servant, a proven leader, and a leading voice on education policy in Congress – not to mention a proud grandmother of two. I look forward to hearing her message as well as all of our great speakers.” DETAILS: Tuesday, October 6, 2015 Resource Fair: 8:30am – 12:00pm Program: 9:00am – 12:00pm LOCATION: James Madison University Festival Conference and Student Center 1301 Carrier Drive Harrisonburg, Virginia REGISTRATION: Those interested in attending can register in advance online or by calling Congressman Goodlatte’s Harrisonburg Office at 540-432-2391. Additionally, attendees can register in person upon arrival at the event. Preregistration is not required. Parking: All attendees must park in the Convo A lot. A shuttle will be available starting at 8:15am to transport attendees to the event. Questions? Call Congressman Goodlatte’s Harrisonburg Office at 540-432-2391 or visit Goodlatte.House.Gov. FOR MEDIA: Local media is invited to attend. Please RSVP to Beth Breeding at beth.breeding@mail.house.gov or 202-225-5431. All questions from members of the media should be directed to Beth.
09.21.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) made the following statement after Secretary of State John Kerry announced that the United States would accept 10,000 additional Syrian refugees on top of the 75,000 worldwide refugees the Secretary announced after a consultation, as required by law, between Kerry and leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees to discuss the proposed annual number of refugees the Obama administration planned to admit into the United States. “ISIS and other terrorist groups have made it abundantly clear that they will use the refugee crisis to try to enter the United States. Now, the Obama Administration wants to bring in an additional ten thousand Syrians without a concrete and foolproof plan to ensure that terrorists won't be able to enter the country. “The Administration has essentially given the American people a 'trust me.' That isn't good enough.”
09.18.2015	Today the House of Representatives passed the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act (H.R. 3504) by a vote of 248-177, 1 Present. The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act severely penalizes abortion practitioners who violate federal law by killing innocent children who are born during failed abortion procedures. The provisions of the bill directly address concerns raised throughout the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing investigation into Planned Parenthood. Under this bill, if a born-alive child is cut open for its body parts, or some other overt act is taken to kill the child, the punishment is that for first-degree murder, which can include life in prison or the death penalty. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement after the passage of the bill: “Today the House of Representatives made a strong statement for children who have no voice in the face of atrocities committed by abortionists. This legislation sends a strong message to those who are in the horrific business of abortions that there are real consequences for those who would kill or abandon children after they are outside a mother’s womb. Today’s debate is a somber reminder of the horrors of abortion, and the atrocities that abortionists like Kermit Gosnell can inflict on babies. “I am proud that this bill also addresses a primary issue within the House Judiciary Committee’s investigation into Planned Parenthood. At the heart of Planned Parenthood’s alleged activities is the harvesting of fetal body parts for profit. This bill severely punishes those abortion practitioners who would kill an innocent baby in order to harvest baby parts. “I wish to thank my colleagues for supporting this important piece of legislation for the unborn.” Key Provisions: • In the case of an abortion or attempted abortion that results in a child born alive, any health care practitioner present must exercise the same degree of professional care to preserve the life of the child as they would render to any other child born alive at the same gestational age. • Provides that the child must be immediately transported and admitted to a hospital. • The bill requires the reporting of any known violations of its provisions. • Allows a woman to file a civil lawsuit if her live baby was not treated with the care and respect required by the bill.
09.17.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement in honor of Constitution Day: “Two hundred twenty-eight years ago, our Founders could not have known that they were about to launch the greatest experiment in self-governance the world had ever seen. What they did know, however, was that this country must be, above all else, dedicated to the preservation of individual liberty. “On September 17, 1787, our Founders signed their names to the United States Constitution. In doing so, they laid the foundation on which we have built our nation and the framework for our system of government. From the first words in the preamble of the Constitution, our Founders stated for the world who we are and what we want as a country. “The Constitution created a limited federal government beholden to the people. It would be strong enough to guarantee our basic rights, but not so strong as to undermine them. Thanks to the 39 delegates who signed the Constitution and stood up for freedom and democracy, the principles within this document have been the ultimate safeguard of freedom, no matter the trials our country has endured. “On this Constitution Day, I also reflect on the concerns of whether the President is adhering to his constitutional duty of ‘faithfully executing the laws.’ The Constitution is very clear: it is Congress’ job to write our laws and it is the President’s duty to enforce them. No one, neither the President nor the Congress, is above the law of the land. “As Americans, we all have the duty to ensure that the next generation understands how blessed they are to live in this great nation and the responsibility that comes with it. As an elected representative in Congress, I have taken a solemn oath to uphold and defend the Constitution and the principles enshrined 228 years ago today. As a fellow citizen, I encourage you to reflect with me on the fundamental principles on which our country was founded and how they have made the United States the model of democracy for the world” Click here to watch the full video.
09.17.2015	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 758, the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act (LARA) by a vote of 241-185. Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the House’s approval of the legislation that will reduce frivolous lawsuits in the United States. The bill imposes mandatory sanctions on attorneys who file baseless lawsuits in federal courts. Goodlatte: “Frivolous lawsuits have no place in the American courtroom, and current loopholes allow too many lawyers to take advantage of innocent victims. Current laws allow lawyers to file baseless claims, and pass legal costs on to the victims who have no guarantee of compensation for the injury they suffered. That’s why the passage of LARA is essential to end lawsuit abuse. LARA guarantees that victims are fully compensated for harm done by filers of frivolous lawsuits in federal courts. “Today Congress took a stand against attorneys who prey on weak victims just for the satisfaction of making a quick dollar in our judicial system. It is my hope that LARA, one of the Speaker’s top legal reform priorities, is taken up in the Senate as soon as possible.” Background: LARA restores accountability to our legal system by penalizing lawyers for filing baseless lawsuits. The bill specifically ensures that judges impose monetary sanctions against lawyers who file frivolous lawsuits, including the attorney’s fees and costs incurred by the victim of the frivolous lawsuit; and reverses the 1993 amendments to Rule 11 that allow attorneys to make frivolous claims without penalty by withdrawing them within 21 days. LARA supports innocent Americans who are victims of frivolous lawsuits: LARA makes mandatory that victims of frivolous lawsuits be compensated for harm done to them by filers of frivolous lawsuits. LARA is even-handed: LARA applies to cases brought by individuals as well as businesses both large and small. The bill also applies to both plaintiffs and defendants. LARA ends the “free pass” for lawyers: The bill eliminates the 21-day “free pass” for lawyers to file frivolous pleadings. Current federal rules allow lawyers to file frivolous pleadings without any sanctions as long as they withdraw those pleadings within 21 days, even if the victims of the frivolous lawsuit had to spend time and money responding to the frivolous pleadings. LARA protects states’ rights: LARA only applies to federal court and does not change state court rules.
09.16.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below regarding comments made yesterday by Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson on sanctuary city policies during a talk at The Commonwealth Club of California in San Francisco. Chairman Goodlatte: “While I agree that sanctuary city policies are unacceptable, it’s hypocritical for Secretary Johnson to criticize sanctuary cities while at the same time refusing to take the steps necessary to end these reckless policies. Under the Obama Administration, political appointees at the Department of Homeland Security have emboldened states and cities to adopt sanctuary city policies by publicly stating they can choose whether or not to comply with federal immigration enforcement efforts. Additionally, the Administration’s so-called enforcement priorities allow millions of unlawful and criminal aliens to evade the law and stay in the U.S. As a result of both sanctuary city policies and the Obama Administration’s lack of immigration enforcement, criminal aliens continue to be released into our communities and threaten public safety. “Tragically, Kate Steinle lost her life due to these irresponsible policies. Officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement informed the House Judiciary Committee that they would likely have turned Steinle’s murderer, Juan Francisco Lopez-Sanchez, over to San Francisco authorities had they had him in custody first, despite knowing that the city would not honor a detainer to return him to ICE custody. San Francisco’s sanctuary policy and ICE’s complicit attitude toward non-compliance by sanctuary cities were the catalyst for this needless tragedy. Even if Sanchez was returned to ICE, there is no guarantee that he would have been removed because of the agency’s history of releasing known felons in its custody. “If Secretary Johnson is truly committed to ending dangerous sanctuary city policies, he must work with Congress to ensure federal immigration detainers are mandatory and sanction states and cities that continue to stonewall federal immigration enforcement efforts. Without such action, Secretary Johnson’s words are all bark and no bite.” Background: In July, the House Judiciary Committee held an oversight hearing on the Department of Homeland Security. At the hearing, Secretary Johnson admitted that he is unwilling to make U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement detainers mandatory, which are the tools used by the federal government to pick up unlawful and criminal aliens being held at local jails. The House Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee held a hearing in July to examine the dangerous policies adopted by some state and local governments that refuse to honor the federal government’s authority to enforce immigration laws, and the Obama Administration’s complicity in this problem. At the hearing, Chairman Goodlatte questioned witnesses regarding the best policies for the removal of criminal aliens before they commit more violent crimes in society. In late July, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, which if enacted would be a good first step toward ending sanctuary city policies. Legislation authored by Immigration and Border Security Chairman Trey Gowdy – H.R. 1148, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act – contains the best legislative solution to end sanctuary cities and the Obama Administration’s policies that encourage them. More information on the Obama Administration’s lack of immigration enforcement can be found here.
09.11.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today in remembrance of the lives lost in the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: “The morning of September 11, 2001, started like any other. But in just a few short hours, our world had forever changed. The events of that day reverberated throughout every corner of the nation. Now, even as time has passed, as Americans we still feel a sense of loss and pain when we remember that day. We will not forget those who were taken from us far too soon. As we reflect on this day, I am also reminded of the response of the American people in the face of tragedy. The service of the law enforcement community and first responders, the willingness of strangers on the street to rush to help others, and the outpouring of support from across the country are all testaments to the resiliency of the American spirit and our determination to prevail. It is only fitting that many commemorate this day through volunteering and service to others. “As we have become all too aware, the terrorist threat continues to evolve. We must remain vigilant in the face of renewed threats to our nation and also ensure that policies are in place to help keep our communities safe. I am thankful for the men and women who have served to protect these freedoms, and continue to keep our Armed Forces in my prayers. Much has changed in the past 14 years, but America will continue to remain a beacon of freedom throughout the globe.”
09.11.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today after voting in opposition to the Iran Nuclear Agreement: “Any agreement that does not cut off Iran’s access to nuclear weapons is a bad deal for America. Today, I voted against the Iran deal. I cannot in good conscience support any agreement that does not truly and transparently permanently shut down Iran’s pathway to a bomb. While the deal before us primarily meets Iran’s goals – sanctions are lifted, nuclear research and development continues, and America’s safety is compromised – it does not pass muster for the United States. Any agreement should be based on verification – but where is the simple assurance of anytime-anywhere inspections? Additionally, the deal gives Iran a signing bonus and lifts the arms embargo over the next several years. Amazingly, among the deal’s many flaws is an end to a ban prohibiting Iranians from coming to the U.S. to study nuclear science and nuclear engineering at American universities, knowledge that is instrumental in being able to design and build nuclear bombs. “I am also concerned that we have not seen the text of reported ‘side deals’ between the International Atomic Energy Agency and Iran. The Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which was signed into law earlier this year, required the President to submit the text of the Iran deal, including ‘side agreements’ and ‘any related agreements’ that were ‘entered into or made between Iran and any other parties.’ Because of this, I also voted in support of a resolution stating that President Obama failed to transmit these side deals to Congress and, therefore, the period for congressional review of the deal has not truly begun. Additionally, the House passed, with my support, a bill that would suspend President Obama’s authority to lift sanctions on Iran’s nuclear program. “Plain and simple, a nuclear Iran is a threat not only to Israel and the Middle East, but to the United States and the rest of the world. This deal is based on misplaced hope. Hope that Iran has disclosed all of its past nuclear activities; hope that Iran will be transparent; hope that Iran has somehow changed. The future of our children and grandchildren should not include a nuclear Iran. We must reject this deal and work towards a future where they remain safe. That has been our responsibility since the founding of our nation. That is our responsibility still today.”
09.10.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on today’s ruling from the United States District Court for the District of Columbia finding that the House of Representatives has standing in court to challenge the Obama Administration’s use of unappropriated funds to implement the Affordable Care Act. Chairman Goodlatte: “I am pleased that the DC federal court has ruled that the House’s lawsuit challenging President Obama’s executive overreach can move forward in court. The Constitution is very clear: it is Congress’ job to write our laws and it is the President’s duty to enforce them. The Constitution is also clear that Congress has the power of the purse, but the Obama Administration has spent billions of taxpayer dollars on the implementation of Obamacare, none of which have been appropriated by Congress by law. “President Obama’s pattern of executive overreach threatens to unravel our government’s system of checks and balances that is designed to protect individual liberty. If the President is allowed to change laws by himself and use money that has not been appropriated by Congress, he and future presidents can be expected to change more laws that affect Americans’ rights and tax dollars. Both the legislative and judicial branches must put a stop to the executive branch’s abuse of power so that we preserve individual freedom and our Republic for generations to come.” In July 2014, the House of Representatives approved H.Res. 676, a resolution authorizing the House to enter into litigation against President Obama for his failure to faithfully execute the laws. The House filed litigation over President Obama’s unilateral changes to Obamacare on November 21, 2014.
09.09.2015	Video of Chairman Goodlatte’s opening statement is available here. Additionally, video of his questioning of the witnesses can be viewed here. Statement of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte Hearing on “Planned Parenthood Exposed: Examining the Horrific Abortion Practices at the Nation's Largest Abortion Provider” Chairman Goodlatte: Recently, the nation’s attention has been drawn to a series of undercover videos recorded by members of a group called the Center for Medical Progress. These videos contain discussions with representatives of the abortion-providing organization Planned Parenthood regarding the exchange of money for the body parts of unborn children to be used in research. Any discussion of abortion is inherently difficult, as it is unquestionably the taking of a human life. That discussion becomes even more difficult when it turns to the monetary value of the body parts of more developed unborn children -- and to the prospect of exposing them to potentially more painful abortions, conducted in different ways, without the mother’s consent, to preserve the added value of their more fully developed body parts. Yet these videos force us all to engage in that discussion, one that this committee has been engaged in for some time now, and which now begins its phase of public hearings. There are questions regarding whether there are gaps in the law that should be filled to prevent the types of horrors described in the videos. There are questions regarding whether or not existing federal laws have been violated. The Committee is aggressively seeking answers to these questions, but there is no question that the videos are deeply disturbing on a human level. The Director of New York University’s Division of Medical Ethics said in response to the videos that “it’s ethically very dangerous” to change an abortion procedure for the purpose of collecting the organs of unborn children because then “You’re starting to put the mom’s health secondary.” One of the unborn baby tissue procurement companies caught on tape has already claimed to have severed its business relationship with Planned Parenthood. The head of Planned Parenthood herself has referred to what her own Senior Director of Medical Services said on the videos as “unacceptable,” and personally apologized for it. And during a sit-down interview with the New Hampshire Union Leader, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton said of the undercover videos “I have seen pictures from them and obviously find them disturbing.” When the leading Democratic candidate for President says she finds the videos “obviously … disturbing,” I think we can safely put to rest any allegations that the investigation of these acts is inappropriate. Some Members have questioned why our investigation is focused on the conduct of Planned Parenthood, and not on the conduct of those who obtained the undercover footage. Part of the answer is that Planned Parenthood, unlike the undercover reporters, is granted huge amounts of federal funds, making it our business as Members of Congress -- charged with controlling the federal purse-strings -- to do what we can to ensure federal taxpayers are not contributing to the sorts of horrors reflected in the undercover videos. The conduct exposed by the undercover videos may help inform Congress on how to enact better laws, or to see to it that current laws are better enforced, to help protect innocent life nationwide. To that end, the House has already passed the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which would prohibit abortions, with certain limited exceptions, when women are entering the sixth month of pregnancy. Today, America is one of only seven countries on Earth – including North Korea and China – that allow elective abortions after 20 weeks post-fertilization, and an overwhelmingly majority of just about every demographic group opposes its continued practice here. The Senate should pass that bill immediately, and the President should sign it, and in so doing help ensure that the body parts of late-aborted babies cannot be sold because late-term abortions would be generally prohibited. In the meantime, the House Judiciary Committee today continues to examine additional ways of protecting human life, and preserving the conscience of America. Today’s hearing is the first part of a two-part hearing on this topic. I hope that this hearing helps to shed light on some of the nation’s darkest corners so that the atrocities that some would very much like to dehumanize can be exposed for what they really are. I look forward to hearing from all our witnesses here today. Find out more about today’s hearing here.
09.02.2015	On Wednesday, September 9, 2015, at 10:30 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold its first hearing in a series of hearings titled, “Planned Parenthood Exposed: Examining the Horrific Abortion Practices at the Nation's Largest Abortion Provider." The hearings will examine the abortion practices of Planned Parenthood, which has been the subject of an ongoing House Judiciary Committee investigation into the organization’s practices. Since the release of numerous videos by the Center for Medical Progress, the House Judiciary Committee has been conducting an in-depth investigation to determine whether the federal law that prohibits partial-birth abortions and the killing of infants born alive were violated, the history of enforcement of those laws, and the sufficiency of those laws. The Committee’s investigation so far has involved letters to the Department of Justice and Planned Parenthood affiliates in order to gather the facts surrounding the horrific allegations brought to light in the Center for Medical Progress’ videos. The purpose of Wednesday’s hearing will be to hear from experts on the issues surrounding the alleged acts of Planned Parenthood. The hearing will examine details of late-term abortions, what is involved in altering an abortion in order to harvest fetal organs, and a history of the laws that protect, or fail to protect, the unborn from these barbaric practices. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee Chairman Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) released the following statement prior to the hearing: “Planned Parenthood and its executives must answer for the alleged atrocities brought to light in the videos by the Center for Medical Progress. For the past two months, the House Judiciary Committee has been investigating the alleged acts of Planned Parenthood and its affiliates, and now the American people will have a chance to understand just how horrific these practices are to the unborn. “We are pleased to have the opportunity to question a panel of experts on this issue in order to ascertain how Planned Parenthood may have violated federal laws in the course of its alleged practices, and the atrocities associated with altering abortions in order to obtain the body parts of fetuses. “This hearing is the next step in the Committee’s ongoing investigation into Planned Parenthood and part of the Committee’s commitment to fighting for the rights of the unborn.” The hearing will take place in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building and will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/.
08.26.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement on the shooting in Franklin County today: “The horrific murders that occurred this morning have impacted the entire Roanoke community. Maryellen and I offer our condolences to the families of Alison Parker and Adam Ward during this very difficult time. I had the great opportunity to work with Alison and Adam, and they will be dearly missed by those in our community as well as their loved ones and colleagues at WDBJ. I continue to keep the WDBJ family as well as Vicki Gardner, who was wounded this morning, in my thoughts and prayers. As we continue to learn more about this terrible tragedy, I am thankful for the coordinated efforts of multiple federal, state, and local law enforcement agencies in responding quickly.”
08.20.2015	By Editorial Board August 19, 2015 | Hyperlink In recent years, colleges and universities have come under tremendous pressure from a wide array of sources, from the federal Education Department to student activists on campus, that has led them to ride roughshod over the constitutional right to free speech. Far too many public institutions have adopted campus speech codes that restrict not only where and when members of the community can speak freely to small “free-speech zones,” but also sharply curtail what they can say. Campus speech codes have prohibited everything from “humor and jokes about sex” to any expression that might “offend” anybody else at the university. In recent years, the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education has become something like the ACLU for higher education by defending students and faculty members, of every political persuasion, who have run afoul of such speech codes. By publicizing egregious cases and advocating for those censured, it has helped to roll back some of the more outrageous speech codes around the country. Not long ago, FIRE President Greg Lukianoff testified before the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice about how much work remains to be done. “Highly restrictive speech codes are the rule rather than the exception on public college campuses nationwide,” Lukianoff noted. In some places, Lukianoff testified, speech codes “persist even in the very jurisdictions where they have been ruled unconstitutional.” (Only one public college in Virginia, Norfolk State, gets a red-light rating from FIRE, although several others get a yellow-light rating.) Now the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Virginia’s 6th District Rep. Bob Goodlatte, has written to the presidents of 161 public institutions that have among the worst speech codes in the nation. The letter reminds the presidents of what they seem to have forgotten: Their institutions are part of the government and, as such, are obliged to adhere scrupulously to the First Amendment. That means they cannot censor speech just because it might hurt somebody’s feelings. It concludes by asking the university presidents “what steps your institution plans to take to promote free and open expression on its campus(es), including any steps toward bringing your speech policies in accordance with the First Amendment.” Goodlatte’s letter serves as an important counterweight to the “Dear Colleague” letters and other regulatory decrees of the Education Department. It ought to put both the universities and the federal education bureaucracy on notice that they remain subject to the First Amendment, and any rules they consider should first be tested against it before moving toward adoption. University administrators want to maintain a serene atmosphere on campus. And they certainly want to avoid the loss of federal funding that they might incur if they too blatantly flout the Education Department. But those desires do not trump the nation’s founding document and its most fundamental principles. Goodlatte deserves a round of applause for reminding them of that.
08.19.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee Chairman Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) today sent a letter to 58 Planned Parenthood affiliates across the country requesting information on their clinical procedures and standards when performing abortion services. The letter to the affiliates addresses disturbing issues brought to light through a series of videos from the Center for Medical Progress that suggest “Planned Parenthood abortion practitioners are altering procedures in order to harvest the organs and body parts of aborted children.” In the letter, Planned Parenthood affiliates are asked to address basic questions from the size and scope of their work in abortion practices to “how many abortions by trimester were done for each of the past 10 years.” Additional questions strike at the heart of abortion practices discussed in the Center for Medical Progress’ videos such as “[H]as anyone at your clinics ever modified or changed their abortion technique in order to increase the odds of preserving intact fetal tissue and organs?” The letter is part of the Judiciary Committee’s ongoing investigation into the acts of Planned Parenthood and comes in addition to letters sent to the Department of Justice. Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. To Whom It May Concern: Recent videos released by the Center for Medical Progress suggest that Planned Parenthood abortion practitioners are altering procedures in order to harvest the organs and body parts of aborted children. These videos suggest this disturbing practice is more than an isolated instance. Therefore, I write to ask the following questions regarding the clinics with which you are affiliated: 1. How many clinics are operated by your affiliate? Which of these clinics perform abortions? For each clinic that performs abortions, please indicate how many abortions by trimester were done for each of the past 10 years. 2. What steps, if any, do your clinics take to ensure compliance with the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act? 3. Which of your clinics use feticides such as Digoxin? In what percent of cases are feticides used? At what gestational age are feticides used? 4. Do your doctors sign an intent statement regarding abortion procedures? If so, please provide your affiliate’s policy regarding intent statements, including a copy of any intent statement forms used at each of your clinics in the last 10 years. 5. Please indicate by year for the past 10 years, the number of instances in which a child has been delivered intact in the second trimester during an abortion conducted by one of your clinics, including cases in which this happened outside the clinic. Please specify the protocols in place for infants born alive in the course of an abortion. How many times have these protocols been used? What equipment for the care of infants born alive is available at each clinic performing abortions in the second trimester? 6. Have your doctors during the abortion procedure ever attempted to keep fetal tissue and organs intact? If so, what methods were used to do so? 7. Has anyone at your clinics ever modified or changed their abortion technique in order to increase the odds of preserving intact fetal tissue and organs? If so, what changes or modifications were made? If not, does your affiliate have a policy that expressly prohibits changes or modifications in procedure in order to increase the odds of preserving intact fetal tissue and organs? 8. What protocols do your clinics follow for the disposal of fetal remains? 9. In the past 10 years have any of your clinics engaged in fetal tissue donation? If yes, which clinics have engaged in fetal tissue donation and for each clinic please provide the following: a. The name of the recipients (researchers, institutions, tissue procurement entities, etc.) to which the donation was made. b. The number of specimens provided to each recipient in each year and the total amount in income or reimbursement received from each recipient in each year. c. A copy of all contracts between your affiliate or clinic and any recipients of fetal tissue donation. d. A copy of the standard informed consent form used for fetal tissue donation. If the form was changed at any time over the past 10 years please provide a copy of each version and the date the change(s) were or are in effect. In addition, please provide a copy of all abortion training materials or procedure protocols used at your clinics at any time in the past 10 years. For the past five years, please indicate what methods were used each year in each trimester and how many abortions were conducted using each method. ###
08.17.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today called on the Department of Justice (DOJ) to provide further information into the Department’s previous investigations into the altering of abortion procedures in order to obtain fetal body parts. The letter is part of the Judiciary Committee’s ongoing investigation into the acts of Planned Parenthood, and comes a month after Chairman Goodlatte sent a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch demanding further investigation by DOJ into potential violations of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act by Planned Parenthood. Recent videos featuring executives from Planned Parenthood discuss the sale and possible alteration of abortion procedures in order to gain intact fetal body parts. The Committee is seeking further answers from DOJ in regards to the laws that govern such practices and their enforcement. Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to DOJ specifically states that “[N]ew evidence suggests that this disturbing practice of altering the procedure is more than an isolated instance.” Based on the evidence presented in the videos featuring Planned Parenthood executives, Chairman Goodlatte has called upon DOJ to assess three federal laws that may be implicated by these videos, and expressed the Committee’s “interest in understanding the history of the enforcement of these laws at the Department of Justice.” Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. August 17, 2015 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: The House Judiciary Committee has launched an investigation into whether Planned Parenthood abortionists altered procedures in order to harvest the organs and body parts of aborted children. “I’d say a lot of people want liver,” an executive from Planned Parenthood stated in a video released on July 15, 2015. “And for that reason, most providers will do this case under ultrasound guidance, so they’ll know where they’re putting their forceps.” She further stated: “We’ve been very good at getting heart, lung, liver, because we know that so I’m not gonna crush that part, I’m gonna basically crush below, I’m gonna crush above, and I’m gonna see if I can get it all intact.” New evidence suggests that this disturbing practice of altering the procedure is more than an isolated instance. In a recent video released on July 21, 2015, yet another Planned Parenthood abortionist executive stated: Let me explain to you a little bit of a problem, which may not be a big problem, if our usual technique is suction at 10 to 12 weeks and we switch to using an IPAS [manual vacuum aspirator] or something with less suction or to increase the odds that it will come out as an intact specimen, then we’re kind of violating the protocol that says to the patient, “We’re not doing anything different in our care of you.” Now to me, that’s kind of a specious little argument and I wouldn’t object to asking Ian, who’s our surgeon who does the cases, to use an IPAS at that gestational age in order to increase the odds that he’s going to get an intact specimen. Later in the video, when asked if she would be happy with the dollar amount per specimen suggested by the undercover investigative journalist, the Planned Parenthood abortionist executive stated: “Well, let me find out from other affiliates in California [what they] are getting and if they’re getting more, then we can discuss it then.” She continued, “But, you know, the money is not the important thing, but it has to be big enough that it’s worthwhile for me.” At least three federal laws may be implicated by this video: 42 U.S.C. § 274e, which states that "[i]t shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly acquire, receive, or otherwise transfer any human organ for valuable consideration for use in human transplantation if the transfer affects interstate commerce"; 42 U.S.C. § 289g, which states that “[i]t shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly acquire, receive, or otherwise transfer any human fetal tissue for valuable consideration if the transfer affects interstate commerce”; and 18 U.S.C. § 1531, which prohibits partial-birth abortions. We write regarding our interest in understanding the history of the enforcement of these laws at the Department of Justice. Please provide the Committee with a copy of the complaint in every case filed by the Department in which a violation of 42 U.S.C. § 274e, 42 U.S.C. § 289g, or 18 U.S.C. § 1531, and any related federal laws, is alleged. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this request.
08.14.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, today sent a letter to 162 public colleges and universities urging the institutions to update their free speech codes in order to foster freedoms under the First Amendment. The letter comes after the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE) released a report detailing a list of public colleges and universities that received a “red light” rating. FIRE classifies a “red light” institution as “one that has at least one policy that both clearly and substantially restricts freedom of speech.” Chairman Goodlatte requested that the institutions respond to the letter with “what steps your institution plans to take to promote free and open expression on its campus(es), including any steps toward bringing your speech policies in accordance with the First Amendment.” Recently, the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice held a hearing examining First Amendment protections for students on public college and university campuses. Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. Dear President [NAME], The First Amendment prohibits the government, including governmental public colleges and universities, from infringing on free speech and the free exercise of religion. The First Amendment states: “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble …” Yet despite these constitutional protections, speech-restrictive policies in our nation’s public colleges and universities remain. This development was the subject of a recent hearing of the House Committee on the Judiciary’s Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice titled “First Amendment Protections on Public College and University Campuses.” At that hearing, Greg Lukianoff, President and CEO of the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (“FIRE”), testified that “[s]peech codes—policies prohibiting student and faculty speech that would, outside the bounds of campus, be protected by the First Amendment—have repeatedly been struck down by federal and state courts. Yet they persist, even in the very jurisdictions where they have been ruled unconstitutional. The majority of American colleges and universities maintain speech codes.” In FIRE’s Spotlight on Speech Codes 2015, your institution received a “red light” rating. According to FIRE, a “red light” institution “is one that has at least one policy that both clearly and substantially restricts freedom of speech.” They define a “clear” restriction as a policy that on its face is a threat to free speech and “does not depend on how the policy is applied.” They define a “substantial” restriction as a policy that is “broadly applicable” to speech on campus. We write to ask what steps your institution plans to take to promote free and open expression on its campus(es), including any steps toward bringing your speech policies in accordance with the First Amendment.
08.14.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today condemned the Obama Administration’s lack of enforcement of immigration laws after reports of Victor Aureliano Martinez Ramirez, an unlawful immigrant, allegedly raped, tortured and murdered 64 year old Marilyn Pharis in Santa Maria, California in late July. According to news articles, Martinez has been in the United States illegally since at least 2009, and has avoided deportation because of local, state and federal policies that provide sanctuary to unlawful and even criminal immigrants. After a 2014 arrest for battery and possession of methamphetamine, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) lodged a detainer against Ramirez. But the Santa Barbara County Sheriff’s office refused to honor the detainer. According to the Santa Maria Police Chief, Ramirez has been arrested six times in just the last 15 months, most recently a mere eight days before Pharis’ murder. But because the Obama Administration’s removal priorities changed in late 2014, and ICE determined that Ramirez’s “case history showed he had no prior deportations or felony criminal convictions,” he was not deemed an enforcement priority under the changed removal priorities and ICE refused, this time, to lodge a detainer. Ramirez was simply released onto the streets of Santa Maria, free to murder Marilyn Pharis. Chairman Goodlatte released the following statement on the murder and the dangerous lack of commitment to immigration enforcement by local, state and federal agencies: “The Obama Administration’s callous disregard for our nation’s immigration laws has spiraled into public safety crisis that has manifested itself in the heinous murder of another innocent woman, this time a veteran of the United States Air Force. “The Obama Administration should be leading the way in immigration enforcement so states and localities can no longer ignore federal law and enact dangerous sanctuary policies. Instead, this Administration’s misguided policy that only certain criminal convictions should render an unlawful immigrant a “priority” for removal – leads to countless crimes inflicted on Americans and legal immigrants. How many Americans must die at the hands of unlawful criminal immigrants before the Obama Administration takes a serious look at the failure of its own policies?” Background: • In July, the House Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee held a hearing on sanctuary city policies to examine dangerous policies adopted by some state and local governments that refuse to honor the federal government’s authority to enforce immigration laws, and the Obama Administration’s complicity in this problem. • Chairman Goodlatte questioned witnesses regarding the best policies for the removal of criminal aliens before they commit more violent crimes in society. • In late July, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3009, the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act, which if enacted would be a good first step toward ending sanctuary city policies. • Legislation authored by Immigration and Border Security Chairman Trey Gowdy – H.R. 1148, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act – contains the best legislative solution to end sanctuary cities and the Obama Administration’s policies that encourage them.
08.13.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) issued the following statement following Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairwoman Edith Ramirez’s announcement that the FTC is issuing guidance on its unfair methods of competition authority contained in section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act): “Today, for the first time in over 100 years, the FTC has voluntarily announced rules of the road for its exercise of section 5 authority over unfair methods of competition. This historic action comes on the heels of the Committee’s repeated demands that the FTC provide guidance on this authority. This is a good first step and we are pleased that the FTC has finally heeded the Committee’s calls for guidance. However, we will vigilantly monitor the manner in which the FTC applies its guidance and evaluate whether additional action is necessary to ensure that the FTC administers our antitrust laws in a transparent, stable, fair, and predictable manner and that it does not exceed its statutory authority.” Background Since the enactment of the FTC Act in 1914, the FTC has never issued guidance regarding whether, and to what extent, its section 5 unfair methods of competition authority reaches beyond the confines of the Clayton Act and Sherman Act. On October 23, 2013, Chairman Goodlatte led a letter to the FTC urging it to issue section 5 guidance. Additionally, this issue was one of the primary topics covered in the Committee’s two most recent oversight hearings of the antitrust enforcement agencies, available here and here.
08.04.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today joined Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) in the introduction of the Require Evaluation before Implementing Executive Wishlists Act of 2015 (REVIEW Act) (H.R. 3438). Senator Dan Coats (R-Ind.) and Senator James Lankford (R-Okla.) introduced companion legislation in the Senate (S. 1927). The legislation would automatically stay the effective dates of new regulations that would cost the economy over one billion dollars when prompt legal challenges to these costliest of rules are filed in court. The stays would remain in place until the legal challenges are finally resolved by the courts. Goodlatte: “The regulatory burden Washington passes along to the American people is badly exacerbated when billions of dollars of unnecessary compliance costs must be expended during ultimately successful challenges to unlawful regulations. The bill introduced today will prevent the waste imposed by regulations that the courts ultimately will reject. This will free precious dollars to be spent on the jobs and investment America needs to fully recover from economic hard times. I commend Subcommittee Chairman Marino for introducing this important legislation, and I look forward to working with him and our colleagues in the United States Senate to stop the avalanche of regulatory costs that are burdening the American taxpayer.”
08.03.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) today issued the following statement on the House Judiciary Committee’s bipartisan criminal justice reform initiative: “Earlier this summer, the House Judiciary Committee listened to House Members’ ideas and proposals for criminal justice reform. Following the Committee’s listening session, we are working together over the August break with the goal of crafting bipartisan solutions to address the issues facing our criminal justice system. Together, we will pursue responsible, common sense criminal justice reforms to make sure our federal laws and regulations effectively and appropriately punish wrongdoers, protect individual freedom, safeguard civil liberties, work as efficiently and fairly as possible, do not impede state efforts, and do not waste taxpayer dollars. We plan to introduce bipartisan legislation this September so that our criminal justice system better achieves justice and reflects core American values.” Background: In June, Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers announced a criminal justice reform initiative. Over the coming months, the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the U.S. Criminal Code, will take a step-by-step approach to address a variety of criminal justice issues, including over-criminalization, sentencing reform, prison and reentry reform, protecting citizens through improved criminal procedures and policing strategies, and civil asset forfeiture reform. To begin this process, on June 25, 2015 the House Judiciary Committee held a criminal justice reform listening session and heard from over a dozen Members of Congress on this issue.
07.28.2015	I am pleased to be here today at this important hearing, to examine the growing epidemic of heroin abuse in our nation. Over the past several months, we have seen an alarming increase in both the availability and use of heroin. This has, not surprisingly, had profound and tragic consequences. Every day, it seems, brings new stories of overdose deaths occurring across the country, including in my district. Since January, there have been 11 heroin-related overdoses in the Roanoke Valley, resulting in nine deaths. Earlier this year, the Washington Post reported that the legalization and subsequent availability of high-grade marijuana to American consumers has led Mexican drug cartels to increase the amounts of heroin and methamphetamine they are trafficking across the U.S.-Mexico border. Since 2009, heroin seizures along the border have nearly tripled, as law enforcement seized 2,181 kilograms of Mexican heroin last year alone. These are alarming statistics. However, the grim reality is that they should surprise no one. Drug trafficking is an extremely profitable business, run by criminals who are interested in one thing: money. Given the increasing availability of marijuana in the United States, and the related, ongoing epidemic of heroin use, drug traffickers have decided to cash in on the misery of American citizens. Additionally, the Drug Enforcement Administration estimates that the United States has 600,000 heroin users, which is three times the number in 2012. Tragically, that number is expected to rise. That is because there are an estimated 10 million Americans who are currently addicted to prescription opioids, including such drugs as Vicodin, OxyContin, and Percocet. Once someone is addicted to a prescription opioid, the need to satisfy their addiction outweighs the stigma attached to heroin use. Additionally, it is far easier to pay $10 for a dose of heroin than $80 for an oxycodone tablet. It is no exaggeration to say that heroin use has reached epidemic levels across this nation, including in my home state of Virginia. It is not an urban problem, or a rural problem, but an American public health and safety problem. However, despite the increase in heroin and meth production, despite the ongoing heroin epidemic, despite the dramatic surge in deaths, and despite the clear evidence that illicit controlled substances, and their purveyors, pose a lethal threat to the American people, the Obama Administration has continued to shirk its duty to protect this nation from dangerous narcotics. I firmly believe any solution to the heroin epidemic must have three parts: (1) discouraging the use of this dangerous, highly addictive drug; (2) providing appropriate treatment to addicts; and (3) ensuring law enforcement zealously pursues the criminals who bring this poison into our communities. I look forward to our witnesses’ testimony today. VIDEO of Opening Statement - Click Here.
07.28.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today urged Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Johnson to defend the Department’s ability to detain family units who have crossed the border during the ongoing surge at the U.S.-Mexico border. Last week, the United States District Court for the Central District of California ruled that family detention is in violation of a 1997 settlement with the government regarding the detention of minors. The court gave the Department until August 3, 2015 to show cause why it should not issue the final ruling for DHS to release family units currently in custody and to end family detention. In the letter to Secretary Johnson, Chairman Goodlatte points out that the “border surge of unaccompanied alien minors, family units and other unlawful aliens in recent years is a direct result of the current Administration’s many policies aimed at rewarding unlawful aliens by allowing them to remain in the United States.” Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte states that “[d]etention is the best way to ensure that unlawful aliens show up for their immigration court dates,” citing statistics that show that “84% of apprehended unlawful aliens with children who are not detained fail to appear for their court date,” and “46% of apprehended unaccompanied alien minors fail to appear in immigration court.” Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. Dear Secretary Johnson: I write regarding last Friday’s ruling of the United States District Court for the Central District of California, regarding the immigration detention of certain unlawful alien family units while they await immigration proceedings. The Court’s decision, if left to stand, will essentially end the detention of family units. This will no doubt lead to large increases in the already excessively high numbers of aliens surging across the southwestern U.S. border and failing to appear for their removal proceedings. The Court gave you until August 3, 2015, to show cause why it should not rule that you must release family units currently housed in detention and refrain from further detention. I urge you to engage in a vigorous effort to defend the Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) ability to detain family units. As you know, last summer the number of individuals in family units attempting to illegally cross the Southwest U.S. border skyrocketed -- the Border Patrol apprehended over 55,000. And while that number has fallen significantly during the current fiscal year, as of the end of June it was still around 25,000. I have previously concluded, and continue to believe, that evidence proves that the border surge of unaccompanied alien minors, family units and other unlawful aliens in recent years is a direct result of the current Administration’s many policies aimed at rewarding unlawful aliens by allowing them to remain in the United States. For instance, Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s (ICE) 2011 memos regarding priorities for removal put many unlawful aliens on notice that they faced no prospects of being removed. Even more such aliens got that message pursuant to your November 20, 2014, memo further restricting the types of individuals who could be put into removal proceedings. And the President’s planned implementation of the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (DAPA) program showed unlawful aliens that if they broke the law, this Administration would eventually attempt to reward them with employment authorization and consider them to be legally present. Such Administration policies hold no one accountable for their illegal actions. That said, I do applaud your efforts to increase available detention space for unlawful alien family units apprehended close to the southwestern border by opening detention facilities like those in Dilley and Karnes, Texas. Such facilities have a positive deterrent effect if unlawful aliens know that they will be detained as opposed to simply released into the U.S. You were correct on December 15, 2014, when you stated that family detention “is an effective deterrent.” Unfortunately the District Court’s Friday ruling may shut down family detention for good. Detention is the best way to ensure that unlawful aliens show up for their immigration court dates. In fact, new statistics from the Department of Justice’s Executive Office of Immigration Review show that 84% of apprehended unlawful aliens with children who are not detained fail to appear for their court date, and according to Juan Osuna of the Executive Office of Immigration Review, 46% of apprehended unaccompanied alien minors fail to appear in immigration court. I understand that to fight this case may be an arduous undertaking in the face of well-funded and very motivated advocacy groups that decry any immigration enforcement. But your duty is to the American people to prevent and deter unlawful border entries. I request that, in your response and in any further proceedings with the District Court, you undertake an aggressive and vigorous defense of DHS authority to engage in detention of family units. I also request that, should the need arise, you request an emergency stay of any District Court order to do away with detention of family units, and appeal such a decision to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. Thank you for your attention to this matter and I look forward to your response to the Court by August 3, 2015.
07.28.2015	The House of Representatives today approved the Regulations From the Executive In Need of Scrutiny Act (REINS Act) (H.R. 427) by a vote of 243-165. This bill curbs unnecessary regulations from agencies and holds federal bureaucrats accountable for imposing the heaviest burdens on America's economy. The REINS Act requires that federal agencies submit major regulations (those that cost the economy $100 million or more) to Congress for approval; guarantees that no major regulation becomes effective until Congress approves it; and, requires an expedited up or down vote on major rules within 70 legislative days. The REINS Act was passed during the previous two Congresses, and reintroduced this year along with a Senate version of the bill introduced by Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.). Goodlatte: “Unnecessary regulation imposed by federal bureaucrats hinders job creation and hurts millions of Americans who struggle to secure full-time employment. In 2014 alone, unnecessary regulation imposed an estimated burden of $1.88 trillion, which adds up to approximately $15,000 per U.S. household. Americans simply cannot afford to pick up the tab of federal bureaucrats. Americans deserve an accountable regulatory system. “The REINS Act frees Americans from unnecessary regulation and offers much-needed relief to the deep economic pain still being experienced by American workers and families. By passing this legislation, the House has approved one of the most powerful measures to check the Obama Administration’s activist regulatory agenda. “I thank my colleagues for supporting this important legislation and giving Congress, and ultimately the people, a much needed tool to check the Obama Administration and Washington’s regulatory establishment.” Key provisions of the REINS Act include the following: • Requires agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval. • Guarantees no major regulation becomes effective until Congress approves it. • Guarantees fast up or down votes on major rules—Congress must act within 70 legislative days. • Provides more accountability for significant regulations on American economy by requiring the people's elected representatives in Congress to approve or deny those regulations.
07.27.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 365-16 the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 1656). This bipartisan bill – authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) – reforms the United States Secret Service. The House Judiciary Committee approved the bill earlier this month. Over the past few years, a series of scandals and failures have rocked the Secret Service, ranging from the agents’ use of prostitutes while on official presidential travel to Colombia, to the agency’s failure to initially apprehend a fence-jumper who later was arrested deep into the White House residence. The bipartisan legislation approved today implements many of the U.S. Secret Service Protective Mission Panel’s recommendations for improvements at the agency. It strengthens the security of the President, protectees, and the White House complex; enhances Secret Service agents’ training; and improves transparency and accountability at the agency. Goodlatte: “Today, the House of Representatives passed a strong, bipartisan bill that will assist Director Clancy in restoring the Secret Service as a first-rate agency. The Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 provides much needed resources to the Secret Service that enhance agents’ training, strengthen security at the White House, and improve transparency and accountability at the agency. Collectively, these resources and changes will help reform the Secret Service and restore it as a sterling law enforcement agency.” Key Components of the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015: Strengthens Security • Clarifies that it is a federal crime to knowingly cause any object to enter restricted buildings or grounds, including the White House and the Vice President’s residence. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate the use of additional weaponry, including non-lethal weapons. • Amends current law to permit the Secret Service to investigate threats against former Vice Presidents. • Requires the Secret Service to devise and implement procedures for evaluating threats to the White House and its protectees, including threats from drones and explosives, and to report to Congress its findings. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate its technology at the White House, including ways that technology can be used to improve safety at the White House. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate how it retains evidence and to report its findings to Congress. • Allows the Secret Service to install necessary security upgrades at the residences of protectees. Enhances Agents’ Training and Increases Manpower • Directs the Secret Service to increase the number of hours spent training, and directs them to provide joint training between Uniformed Division officers and Special Agents. • Authorizes the hiring of no fewer than 200 additional Uniformed Division officers and 85 additional special agents. Improves Transparency and Accountability • Requires the Director of the U.S. Secret Service to be Senate confirmed. • Sets up an Office of Professional Responsibility at the agency to ensure greater accountability for misconduct. • Contains a Sense of Congress that determinations by the Department of Homeland Security or the Secret Service regarding changes to the White House itself for protection reasons should be given significant deference with the many entities that have a role in approving such changes, including the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts.
07.23.2015	Statement of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte | Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security Hearing on Sanctuary Cities: A Threat to Public Safety Click here to watch. Chairman Goodlatte: Mr. Chairman, thank you for holding this hearing. Last week, this Committee held a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) oversight hearing with Secretary Johnson as the sole witness. Many Members focused their questions on sanctuary cities, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers and criminal aliens. So we have heard much of what the Administration has to say about these issues. But today we will hear perspectives on sanctuary policies that are distinctly different than what Secretary Johnson had to offer. And I look forward to that testimony. I am honored to have the family of Kate Steinle testify today. Of course their perspective on this issue is one that we wish they never had to contemplate. And the same is true for the countless other victims of criminal aliens that this Committee has heard from over the past several years. People like Jamiel and Anita Shaw, whose son was murdered by a criminal alien gang member who had been released from jail by Los Angeles law enforcement pursuant to Los Angeles’ sanctuary policy. And people like Sabine Durden whose son Dominic was killed in a car accident by an illegal immigrant who had two prior DUI convictions. These tragedies were preventable. This Administration must reverse its wholesale and unprecedented shutdown of immigration enforcement. Because the result of that shutdown is that millions of unlawful and criminal aliens are not considered high enough “priorities” for deportation, they are left in American communities. In fact, in the last year the number of administrative arrests of criminal aliens has fallen by a third. And the Department continues to release thousands of such aliens onto our streets. ICE admitted to releasing 30,558 aliens with criminal convictions in 2014. Last week we publicized ICE data showing the recidivist activity of those criminal aliens ICE released in 2014 -- 1,423 have already been convicted of new crimes like vehicular homicide, domestic violence, sexual assault, DUI, burglary and assault, among many others. And no doubt even more have been arrested for, and charged with, additional crimes. Secretary Johnson’s solution, the Priorities Enforcement Program - is a failure. Even the Secretary admitted last week that five of ICE’s “Priority A” – meaning the worst offending – jurisdictions have refused to participate in PEP. And while 33 of the 49 “Priority A” jurisdictions have apparently agreed to participate in PEP, it remains to be seen how fully they will participate. The Administration has admitted that when it says a jurisdiction has agreed to participate, that could encompass compliance with only a very small part of PEP. There is a clear answer to this problem. Compliance with ICE detainers must be mandatory. Jurisdictions that violate that policy must suffer consequences. And most importantly – Congress must no longer allow the President the ability to simply turn off the immigration enforcement switch. This Committee has passed a bill that addresses all three of those principles – H.R. 1148, the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act. While I look forward to consideration of H.R. 1148 on the Floor, later today the House will vote on legislation to address one part of the solution to sanctuary cities. That bill is a good first step, and I will support it. I also appreciate the Majority Leader’s commitment to me that we will take additional action to ensure compliance with our immigration laws in the future. Today, I look forward to hearing the witness’ thoughts on how to prevent sanctuary policies and the overwhelming number of crimes committed pursuant to those policies. I yield back the balance of my time. For more on today’s hearing, click here.
07.23.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 241-179 the Enforce the Law for Sanctuary Cities Act (H.R. 3009). This bill withholds several federal grants from states or localities that refuse to comply with federal immigration enforcement efforts and threaten the safety of their communities. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the passage of this legislation in the statement below: “Sanctuary city policies needlessly endanger American lives by refusing to honor the federal government’s authority to enforce immigration laws. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration’s own foolish policies enable rogue local governments to defy federal immigration laws. All too often, these reckless policies create preventable tragedies. “Today, the House of Representatives took a good first step towards addressing this public safety problem, but more must be done. President Obama’s lack of interior enforcement has made the United States a sanctuary nation. As a result of the Obama Administration’s foolish policies, hundreds of thousands of criminal aliens are currently roaming free in the United States. We must pass additional legislation, such as Congressman Gowdy’s interior enforcement bill, so that we stop the President from unilaterally shutting down immigration enforcement.” Background: Earlier today, the House Judiciary Committee’s Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee held a hearing to examine dangerous policies adopted by some state and local governments that refuse to honor the federal government’s authority to enforce immigration laws, and the Obama Administration’s complicity in this problem. At the hearing, Jim Steinle, the father of Kate Steinle, testified before the Subcommittee. In March 2015, the Committee approved the Davis-Oliver Act (H.R. 1148), a comprehensive interior enforcement bill authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.). Among its provisions, the bill makes U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers mandatory, withholds specific federal grants from jurisdictions that refuse to comply with federal immigration enforcement efforts, and requires the detention of dangerous criminal aliens.
07.22.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, and Senator Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, pressed Attorney General Loretta Lynch for information about the thousands of federal prison inmates who will be released in November as a result of the U.S. Sentencing Commission’s decision to lower federal sentencing for all drug trafficking and distribution crimes. Those expected to be released include inmates with violent criminal histories, who have committed crimes involving assault, firearms, sodomy, and even murder. These releases would include inmates convicted of crimes in the Western District of Virginia. In early 2014, the Sentencing Commission promulgated Amendment 782, which imposed a two-level reduction in the base offense levels for all drug trafficking and distribution offenses, including trafficking offenses that involve drug quantities substantial enough to trigger mandatory minimum sentences. The Commission made those reductions retroactive, applying them to all inmates in the Bureau of Prison’s custody who are serving a sentence for a drug offense. Over the past year, thousands of federal inmates have filed motions with their courts of jurisdiction for sentence reductions. In their letter to Attorney General Lynch, Chairmen Goodlatte and Grassley note that their concerns about violent offenders being released were ultimately ignored by the Sentencing Commission. They request that Attorney General Lynch provide the House and Senate Judiciary Committees with detailed information about the federal inmates who will be released on November 1 or thereafter. Below is the text of the letter. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. Dear Attorney General Lynch: Beginning on November 1st of this year, over 10,000 federal prison inmates will be released early from Bureau of Prisons (BOP) custody. This includes inmates with violent criminal histories, who have committed crimes involving assault, firearms, sodomy, and even murder. In early 2014, the Sentencing Commission promulgated Amendment 782, which imposed a two-level reduction in the base offense levels for all drug trafficking and distribution offenses, including trafficking offenses that involve drug quantities substantial enough to trigger mandatory minimum sentences. The Commission made those reductions retroactive, applying them to all inmates in BOP custody who are serving a sentence for a drug offense. Over the past year, thousands of federal inmates have filed motions with their courts of jurisdiction for sentence reductions. During the Commission’s consideration of Amendment 782, we sent a letter to Sentencing Commission Chairwoman Patti Saris, expressing concerns that the Commission would “choos[e] to fulfill its mandate to ‘minimize the likelihood that the federal prison population will exceed the capacity of the federal prisons’ by reducing sentences for violent drug traffickers,” and that the effect of this amendment would be “to reduce sentences for some of the most egregious drug traffickers and distributors.” That letter is attached for your reference. Unfortunately, our concerns were ignored and Amendment 782 went into effect on November 1, 2014. It is our understanding that tens of thousands of federal inmates are eligible for early release as a result, and that the BOP inmate population will fall by more than 12,000 inmates by the end of fiscal year 2016. Overall, the Sentencing Commission has estimated that 46,376 prisoners are eligible for early release under Amendment 782 – with nearly 8,000 offenders eligible for immediate release on November 1, 2015. As Chairmen of the two Congressional Committees with oversight of the Department of Justice, it is imperative that we have a complete understanding of the impact the release of these drug traffickers will have on the public safety of our communities. It is also important for us to know the impact that an inmate release of this magnitude will have on the federal prison system. Accordingly, we request that you provide our Committees with information on each federal offender who will be released on November 1 or afterward pursuant to Amendment 782. That information should be broken down by judicial district, and should include: 1. The number of offenders who are eligible to be released from BOP custody pursuant to Amendment 782, and the number of offenders who have projected release dates; 2. Each offender’s full name, as well as any known aliases; 3. A description of the offense for which the offender is presently incarcerated; 4. The length of the offender’s present sentence, including the amount of time the offender has served and the amount of time the offender will not serve as a result of the early release; 5. The offender’s country of citizenship, and whether BOP has notified or intends to notify ICE about the release of any unlawful criminal aliens; 6. The offender’s projected release date, and 7. A description of the criminal history for the offender, including dates of prior convictions and prison terms served for those convictions. Please provide this information, in a searchable electronic format, no later than August 15, 2015. Thank you for your attention to this important request. We appreciate your prompt reply.
07.17.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Constitution and Civil Justice Subcommittee Chairman Trent Franks (R-Ariz.) today demanded further investigation by the Department of Justice into potential violations of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act by Planned Parenthood. Chairman Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Franks detailed their initial concerns in a letter to Attorney General Loretta Lynch after several reports and a video surfaced of an executive from Planned Parenthood describing the group’s procedures to retrieve body parts of unborn children. Chairman Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Franks call on the Department of Justice to “provide a summary of all actions your Department has taken to ensure compliance with the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act,” and to launch its own investigation into any potential violations of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. The House Committee on Energy and Commerce also sent a letter today to Planned Parenthood, demanding answers on the organization’s practices. Below is the text of the letter sent by Chairman Goodlatte and Subcommittee Chairman Franks. A copy of the signed letter can be found here. July 17, 2015 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General United States Department of Justice Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Lynch: In a recently released video Planned Parenthood Federation of America’s Senior Director of Medical Services, Dr. Deborah Nucatola, describes actions taken during abortions to produce intact organs for fetal tissue brokers. In the course of the conversation she references several actions that abortionists can take to produce the requested organs. These include using graspers to crush the unborn child above and below the thorax so that organs such as the liver, heart and lungs are not damaged. However, she notes that an intact head is the hardest to deliver. To address this problem, she says “some people will actually try to change the presentation so it’s not vertex” (so the baby is breech instead of head first). She goes on to explain that “if you do it starting from the breech presentation, there’s dilation that happens as the case goes on, and often the last, you can evacuate an intact calvarium [head] at the end.” When discussing the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban and how abortionists take the law into consideration, Nucatola goes on to say “the federal abortion ban is a law, and laws are up to interpretation. So there are some people who interpret it as intent. So if I say on Day One I do not intend to do this, what ultimately happens doesn’t matter. Because I didn’t intend to do this on Day One so I’m complying with the law.” Both the references to the process of breech conversion and the interpretation of intent raise serious questions about whether abortionists and particularly abortionists in the Planned Parenthood organization are complying with the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. With this in mind, please provide a summary of all actions your Department has taken to ensure compliance with the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act. Further, we urge you to act swiftly to launch an investigation into any potential violations of the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of which your Department has become aware, or does become aware, including potential violations by Planned Parenthood.
07.15.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 1656). This bipartisan bill – authored by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) – reforms the United States Secret Service. Over the past few years, a series of scandals and failures have rocked the Secret Service, ranging from the agents’ use of prostitutes while on official presidential travel to Colombia to the agency’s failure to initially apprehend a fence-jumper who later was arrested deep into the White House residence. The bipartisan legislation approved today implements many of the U.S. Secret Service Protective Mission Panel’s recommendations for improvements at the agency. It strengthens the security of the President, protectees, and the White House complex; enhances Secret Service agents’ training; and improves transparency and accountability at the agency. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Secret Service is comprised of many outstanding men and women who do excellent work every day. However, after a series of embarrassing security failures and instances of poor judgement and wild behavior, the American people have lost confidence in the Secret Service’s ability to protect the President from threats from outside entities and from within the agency itself. “Today, the House Judiciary Committee took action that will assist Director Clancy in restoring the Secret Service as a first-rate agency. The Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 provides much needed resources to the Secret Service that enhance agents’ training, strengthen security at the White House, and improve transparency and accountability at the agency. Collectively, these resources and changes will help reform the Secret Service and restore it as a sterling law enforcement agency. I urge the House of Representatives to take up this legislation as soon as possible.” Key Components of the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015: Strengthens Security • Clarifies that it is a federal crime to knowingly cause any object to enter restricted buildings or grounds, including the White House and the Vice President’s residence. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate the use of additional weaponry, including non-lethal weapons. • Amends current law to permit the Secret Service to investigate threats against former Vice Presidents. • Requires the Secret Service to devise and implement procedures for evaluating threats to the White House and its protectees, including threats from drones and explosives, and to report to Congress its findings. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate its technology at the White House, including ways that technology can be used to improve safety at the White House. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate how it retains evidence and to report its findings to Congress. • Allows the Secret Service to install necessary security upgrades at the residences of protectees. Enhances Agents’ Training and Increases Manpower • Directs the Secret Service to increase the number of hours spent training, and directs them to provide joint training between Uniformed Division officers and Special Agents. • Authorizes the hiring of no fewer than 200 additional Uniformed Division officers and 85 additional special agents. Improves Transparency and Accountability • Requires the Director of the U.S. Secret Service to be Senate confirmed. • Contains a Sense of Congress that determinations by the Department of Homeland Security or the Secret Service regarding changes to the White House itself for protection reasons should be given significant deference with the many entities that have a role in approving such changes, including the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts.
07.15.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today announced a Committee investigation into allegations that Planned Parenthood abortion doctors altered abortion procedures in order to harvest the organs and body parts of aborted children for money. The Committee’s investigation will focus on the inhumane acts detailed by an executive of Planned Parenthood in several reports and a video. Chairman Goodlatte: "Every human life is sacred and should be protected from the atrocities allegedly undertaken by Planned Parenthood. The House Judiciary Committee is investigating these horrific acts including ascertaining how Congress might act. “The prospects of altering an abortion procedure in order to preserve intact the organs of aborted children, including their brains, reminds us yet again of the horrors of late-term abortions, and the need for the Senate to pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. “Members of the House Judiciary Committee have been committed to the preservation of human life, including the lives of unborn children. We will continue to fight for the rights of the unborn.”
07.14.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) released the following statement on the final Iran nuclear negotiations agreement announced by the Obama Administration today: “A bad deal will not gain traction in this Congress, and initial reports seem to give Iran everything they want – sanctions relief and continued freedom to work on their nuclear ambitions – without any real agreement or oversight to shut down their nuclear armament efforts. Earlier this year, I joined 367 bipartisan Members of Congress in sending a letter to President Obama outlining several conditions that any final nuclear agreement must address. This agreement is extremely troubling and fails to adequately address the conditions set forth by this bipartisan group. Any agreement that loosens sanctions without truly and transparently permanently shutting down Iran’s pathway to a bomb is a non-starter. “Additionally, Iran’s continued role in fueling instability in the region also brings their intentions to uphold any final nuclear agreement into question. A senior State Department official testified before Congress that ‘deception is part of [Iran’s] DNA,’ and Iran’s actions continue to prove that it cannot be trusted. The threat presented by a nuclear Iran is real for Israel, the Middle East as a whole, and the United States. While on its face this agreement may appear to lengthen the breakout time for Iran to build a bomb, it is my concern that in the details of this agreement, the Administration has guaranteed that within the next decade Iran will have joined the list of nations with operational nuclear weapons.”
07.08.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.) issued the following statement on the evolving economic situation in Puerto Rico: “Today, we met with our Republican colleagues on the Judiciary Committee to discuss the issues facing Puerto Rico. While no consensus was reached, a general concern was expressed that to provide Puerto Rico’s municipalities access to chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code would not, by itself, solve Puerto Rico’s difficulties, which are associated with underlying, structural economic problems. These problems need to be addressed and we continue to monitor the developments in Puerto Rico and are actively assessing the merits of any potential congressional response.” Background: In 1984, Congress passed the Bankruptcy Amendments and Federal Judgeship Act that, among other things, defined the term “State.” This definition resulted in Puerto Rico being among other territory governments that cannot allow their municipalities to use chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code. The House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on May 12, 2015 to revisit the 1984 definition and reevaluate the merits of providing Puerto Rico’s municipalities access to chapter 9 of the Bankruptcy Code under H.R. 870, the Puerto Rico Chapter 9 Uniformity Act of 2015.
06.25.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement following the Supreme Court’s 6-3 decision in King v. Burwell. Today’s decision upheld the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) interpretation of provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Specifically, the Court ruled that section 36B of the Internal Revenue Code, which was enacted as part of the Affordable Care Act, allows the IRS to extend tax-credit subsidies to customers who purchase healthcare on federally-created health insurance exchanges within states that have not set up their own insurance exchanges under the Affordable Care Act. Congressman Goodlatte: “I am deeply offended and troubled by today’s decision of the Court to uphold the IRS’s interpretation of provisions of the Affordable Care Act which makes the plain meaning of the law meaningless. Despite the Court’s ruling, I believe the statute is clear on its face – only customers who purchase insurance on exchanges established by a state under section 1311 of the Affordable Care Act are eligible for subsidies. “Today’s decision keeps in place a system that allows medical decisions to be dictated from Washington through federal government mandates on employers and individuals. This follows upon the 2012 decision of the Court on the issue of the individual mandate that tramples on the freedom of the American people and the Constitution itself. The Court has thrown out the rights’ of the states and the will of the American people with today’s ruling, and has opened the door for the federal government to be the ultimate deciders of what is best for Americans. “I remain committed to working with Members on both sides of the aisle to repeal Obamacare and take the steps needed to reform our health care system the right way. We must work together to make health care more affordable and more accessible for all Americans.”
06.25.2015	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Michael Capuano (D-Mass) released the following statement on the Department of Education’s announcement regarding progress on the proposed college ratings plan: “The Department’s pivot in their approach to the college ratings system is a step in the right direction. It is vitally important to protect students’ free choice in where they seek postsecondary education. The federal government’s role in preserving that choice can include ensuring access to relevant information so that students and parents can make informed decisions about their higher education. However, rating colleges and universities, with the intent of tying federal aid to those ratings, is not the job of the federal government. Since we first learned of the Administration’s proposal in 2013, we have been deeply concerned about the unintended consequences that would come as a result of this plan. While we are pleased that the Department appears to be dialing back their ratings plan, we anxiously await the new ‘tools’ the Department of Education plans to unveil later this summer.” On June 16, 2015, Congressmen Goodlatte and Capuano, joined by eight of their colleagues, sent a letter to Secretary Duncan requesting additional information on the ratings framework and metrics. Earlier this year, Congressmen Goodlatte and Capuano introduced H. Res. 26, a bipartisan resolution opposing the President’s proposal to create a college ratings system.
06.24.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) welcomed Kayla Prillaman, winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2015 Congressional Art Competition, to Washington today. Her photograph, Autumn Trails, was taken at Carvins Cove Natural Reserve in Roanoke County. Kayla is a 2015 graduate of William Fleming High School in Roanoke. To view Autumn Trails, please click here. “A piece of the Sixth Congressional District is now on display for visitors to the U.S. Capitol to see,” said Congressman Bob Goodlatte. “Congratulations to Kayla on this achievement! Her eye for photography shines clearly in Autumn Trails, and I am pleased that this piece will be on display in the U.S. Capitol to allow others the opportunity to experience the beauty of the Sixth District. Thank you to all of our students who participated in the Congressional Art Competition. I wish Kayla the best of luck as she heads to James Madison University this fall to study kinesiology.” For photos, please click here. Kayla’s photograph will be featured in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of a display of artwork by high school artists from across the nation. Only one piece from each congressional district is selected for display.
06.24.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2015 (H.R. 1927) by a vote of 15-10. Introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act will strengthen federal class action lawsuit rules by helping ensure victims who have experienced actual or comparable injury are justly compensated. The bill calls for reforms to the current federal class action lawsuit framework by requiring that classes consist of members with the same type and scope of injury as was intended under the federal class action statute. Under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement on the Committee’s approval of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act: Chairman Goodlatte: “The Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act is a simple, one-page bill that furthers a common sense principle that should apply to class action lawsuits in the future. Only those people who share injuries of the same type and scope should be part of a class action lawsuit. I was proud to help move the Class Action Fairness Act through Congress ten years ago, and I was pleased to introduce this legislation along with Subcommittee Chairman Franks. I believe this bill builds upon the important measures of the original Class Action Fairness Act and enhances the protections afforded to victims in class actions, and further reduces wasteful litigation in our courts. “People who are seriously injured deserve to have their own class actions, in which they present their uniquely powerful cases, and get the larger recoveries they deserve. This legislation brings us a step closer to ensuring justice for victims.”
06.23.2015	The House Judiciary Committee recently learned that the Obama Administration has begun to implement its Priority Enforcement Program (PEP), which replaces the successful Secure Communities program and allows significant numbers of criminal aliens to remain in the United States. PEP is part of the unilateral changes to the U.S. immigration system announced by President Obama on November 20, 2014. Although Obama Administration officials claim that they are prioritizing immigration enforcement through executive action to focus on criminal aliens, they scrapped Secure Communities – a congressionally mandated tool that identifies criminal aliens booked in jails across the United States so that federal law enforcement officials can prioritize their removal – and replaced it with an untested, new program that is riddled with loopholes. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the Obama Administration’s Priority Enforcement Program. “The only priority contained in the Priority Enforcement Program is to ensure that our immigration laws are not enforced in the interior of the United States. By scrapping a law enforcement tool that keeps our communities safe and replacing it with a new program that permits the release of criminal aliens, President Obama is needlessly endangering our communities. It’s past time for the Obama Administration to get its priorities straight and protect the American people instead of their political interests. The House Judiciary Committee will examine this new program at next month’s Department of Homeland Security oversight hearing.” Here are the Facts about the Administration’s “Priority Enforcement Program”: PEP Permits Significant Numbers of Criminal Aliens to Remain in the United States: Obama Administration officials claim that PEP will continue to rely on biometric data to identify criminal aliens, but ICE will only be permitted to transfer aliens from the custody of state and local law enforcement through the new program when an alien has been convicted of certain, but not all, of the offenses in the Administration’s new, so-called immigration enforcement “priorities.” These “priorities” ignore entire categories of removable criminal aliens defined by Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act. After the implementation of PEP, DHS will not pursue the vast majority of criminal aliens who commit the following offenses: fraud or material misrepresentation in the immigration process; drug possession offenses; most theft offenses, including identity theft; nearly all crimes involving moral turpitude; and, aliens who have misdemeanors that the Administration does not deem to be “significant.” Even Aliens Who Have Been Charged or Arrested for Serious Criminal Offenses Will Not be Pursued under PEP: If an unlawful immigrant commits a crime, but is able to be released from state or local custody before the conclusion of the criminal proceedings, DHS will turn a blind eye to allow the unlawful immigrant to remain on the streets until that alien has an actual conviction. Note, this is even a departure from the previous priorities issued by former Director Morton. For DHS, permitting the criminal alien to remain on the streets overrides protecting the community. Not Only Does PEP Ignore Criminal Aliens, but PEP Also Ignores Aliens Defined as a “Priority” for Removal by DHS in Secretary Johnson’s November 20, 2014 Memorandum: The “priorities” that DHS created on November 20, 2014 are ignored for the purposes of PEP implementation, meaning that DHS will not attempt to take custody of these individuals if they are arrested by state and local law enforcement: Priority (1)(b) Recent border crossers: “Aliens apprehended at the border or ports of entry while attempting to unlawfully enter the United States” are not subject to PEP. Priority 2(c) Aliens who enter the U.S. unlawfully or reenter after being removed or returned: “Aliens apprehended anywhere in the United States after unlawfully entering or re-entering the United States and who cannot establish to the satisfaction of an immigration officer that they have been physically present in the United States continuously since January 1, 2014,” are not subject to PEP. Priority 2(d): Aliens who “significantly abuse the terms of their visas”: “Aliens who, in the judgment of an ICE Field Office Director, USCIS District Director, or USCIS Service Center Director, have significantly abused the visa or visa waiver programs are not subject to the PEP program.” When asked, the Administration could not provide a definition of the term “significantly abused the visa or visa waiver programs.” Priority (3) Aliens with final orders of removal: Even aliens “who have been issued a final order of removal on or after January 1, 2014,” are not subject to PEP. Through PEP and the Administration’s Enforcement “Priorities,” DHS Implicitly Asserts that Enforcement of Our Immigration Laws Does Not Serve an Important Federal Interest: DHS states that nothing in its priority memos, “should be construed to prohibit or discourage the apprehension, detention, or removal of aliens unlawfully in the United States who are not identified as priorities herein. However, resources should be dedicated, to the greatest degree possible, to the removal of aliens described in the priorities set forth above, commensurate with the level of prioritization identified. Immigration officers and attorneys may pursue removal of an alien not identified as a priority herein, provided, in the judgment of an ICE Field Office Director, removing such an alien would serve an important federal interest.” This term is not defined anywhere in the guidance that implements PEP, and remains completely open-ended. Apparently, DHS takes the position that enforcing clearly defined immigration laws enacted by Congress does not serve an important federal interest. PEP Authorizes Sanctuary City Policies: Not only does the Obama Administration end the Secure Communities program as we know it, it also ends ICE detainers in nearly all situations, meaning that ICE will no longer have the ability to pick up and process removable aliens encountered by law enforcement. PEP ratifies sanctuary jurisdictions by allowing states and localities to ignore detainer requests: Rather than defending its detainer authority and clarifying that detainers are mandatory, ICE will instead issue “Requests for Voluntary Notification of Release of Suspected Priority Aliens” to state and local law enforcement jurisdictions. This effectively leaves states and localities responsible regarding the decision of immigration enforcement: they can refuse to comply with the requests for notification should they choose to do so. Indeed, ICE has engaged in a significant campaign to bring sanctuary jurisdictions on board with any form of PEP, with little success. So far, only Los Angeles County has agreed to join – and it is unclear to what extent they plan to adhere to PEP. PEP only permits the issuance of an actual detainer in extremely limited circumstances: In extremely limited circumstances, ICE can issue a detainer and then issue a form entitled “Immigration Detainer - Request for Voluntary Action.” However, this document contains a stringent checklist, which requires DHS to tell a state or local jurisdiction which of DHS’s enforcement priorities the alien fits into – as if it has to explain to state and local jurisdictions why it wants to enforce federal immigration law. Learn more about the Obama Administration’s lax immigration record here.
06.23.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the Obama Administration’s new hostage policy that allows families of Americans held by terrorist groups to pay ransom without fear of prosecution by the U.S. government. “The brutal murders of innocent Americans held hostage by the Islamic State are tragic and sober reminders that the terrorist threat against the United States and its allies is real and ongoing. Unfortunately, President Obama’s decision to change our nation’s longstanding policy against paying ransom demands to terrorists does more harm than good. In fact, it empowers, emboldens, and incentivizes these violent extremists to capture and hold more Americans hostage for ransom. I urge President Obama to reconsider the implications of this policy shift and ensure that our hostage policies will actually serve to protect American lives.”
06.22.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement reacting to the agreement allowing Sweet Briar College to remain open next academic year: “This is great news for the Sweet Briar community! It has been a long, arduous process, but the outcome is evidence of the tenacity of Sweet Briar alumnae, students, and employees as well as the network of supporters in Amherst County and across the nation who stood loudly in support of the school. I look forward to working with the College’s new leadership, and I urge them to take the necessary steps to implement long-term solutions that will ensure this institution remains open to young women for many generations to come."
06.19.2015	Friday, June 19, 2015 – Congressmen Morgan Griffith (R-VA) and Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) today issued the following statement after receiving the attached letter from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) responding to the Congressmen's request for an additional Mountain Valley Pipeline scoping meeting in Roanoke County: "We are disappointed in FERC's decision. However, we encourage people to submit their comments on the proposed Mountain Valley Pipeline to FERC. Once the draft Environmental Impact Statement is issued, FERC will hold additional meetings to allow individuals with concerns to be heard.” Those wishing to submit comment to FERC on this proposed pipeline may continue to do so at https://www.ferc.gov/docs-filing/ecomment.asp, docket number PF15-3. Griffith and Goodlatte on May 1, 2015 sent a letter to FERC requesting an additional public scoping meeting in Roanoke County.
06.17.2015	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) congratulated Matthew Higgs of Roanoke on receiving the Congressional Award Gold Medal as a part of the Annual Congressional Award Gold Medal Ceremony held at the United States Capitol. In order to earn this honor, youth must perform “over 400 hours of voluntary service, 200 hours of personal development and physical fitness hours respectively and a four consecutive night expedition or exploration.” The Congressional Award was established by Congress in 1979 to recognize initiative, achievement, and service in young people. Matthew is an Eagle Scout, and earned many of his service hours through his work as a member of the Boy Scouts of America. Congressman Goodlatte released the following statement praising Matthew’s achievements: “By accepting Congress’ challenge and undertaking the lengthy requirements of this award, Matthew has experienced firsthand the value of achievement, initiative, and service. Throughout this process, Matthew has performed over 600 hours of voluntary service! He had the opportunity to perform service projects at the local zoo, develop and practice leadership skills, and even led a sailing expedition to the Bahamas. It is an honor to present him with this well-deserved award, and I hope Matthew’s service to the Roanoke Valley will encourage other young adults to do the same in their communities.”
06.12.2015	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) announced an economic development agreement that will bring ITFederal, LLC to Front Royal. The $40 million project involves the construction of an office complex that includes three individual, but interrelated buildings, built on a 30.11 acre lot located on the former Avtex site, currently owned by the Front Royal-Warren County Economic Development Authority (EDA). The final details of the contract to purchase land are currently being worked out between the EDA and ITFederal, LLC and should be completed within the next week. When completed, the Project will include approximately 67,000 square feet of a mixed-use office complex that includes approximately 37,000 square feet of office space, 20,000 square feet of retail space, and a 10,000 square foot cloud data center, which will support ITFederal, LLC. The project will create over 600 high paying jobs for the community. Construction will last for an estimated 36 months with the construction of the first building (Phase-1a) starting in the third quarter of 2015 and to be completed in November 2016. The second building (Phase-1b) is expected to be fully operational in October 2017, and the third building (Phase-1c) is anticipated to be completed in September 2018. Congressman Bob Goodlatte: “Today’s announcement is welcome news for Warren County and Front Royal. I am greatly encouraged by ITFederal's decision to invest in the Sixth Congressional District. Innovation and technology are driving economic growth nationwide, and I hope this will spark a trend that brings more businesses and jobs to our region. I am happy to have supported the efforts leading up to this announcement and commend Front Royal and Warren County officials for their hard work to ensure it came to fruition. I’m especially happy that the Front Royal-Warren County Economic Development Authority was able to so quickly attract the first new business to the former Avtex site.” Patricia S. Wines, Chairman, Front Royal-Warren County Economic Development Authority: “I can say on behalf of the EDA that this is a very exciting moment for us indeed! We remained steadfast during the long, arduous process of remediation and now we can announce to our Town that a great company will become an anchor at this site in a positive start of our redevelopment initiative. We look forward to working with ITFederal on bringing quality jobs to this community that will help bring some of our commuting population back home to work.”
06.11.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved the Innovation Act (H.R. 9) by an overwhelming vote of 24-8. This bipartisan bill takes steps to combat the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation. The legislation addresses abusive practices taking place in our courts. House Judiciary Committee Chairman and chief sponsor of the Innovation Act Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “At its core, abusive patent litigation is a drag on our economy and stifles innovation. It is a problem that impacts businesses and industries of all types and the jobs of the people who work for them, from the tech sector to the hospitality industry and even grocery stores. Everyone from independent inventors, to start-ups, to mid-and large-sized businesses face this constant threat. The tens of billions of dollars squandered on settlements and litigation expenses associated with abusive patent suits represent truly wasted capital – capital that could have been used to create new jobs, fund research and development, and create new innovations and technologies. “The Innovation Act takes the necessary steps to address abusive patent litigation, while protecting legitimate property rights. Specifically, the legislation targets abusive behavior rather than specific entities, preserves valid patent enforcement tools, preserves patent property rights, promotes invention by independents and small businesses, and strengthens the overall patent system.” The Innovation Act is supported by a wide range of groups that include stakeholders from all areas of our economy representing businesses of all kinds from every corner of our country including independent inventors and innovators. Key Components of the Innovation Act: Targets Abusive Patent Litigation: The bill targets abusive patent litigation behavior and not specific entities with the goal of preventing individuals from taking advantage of gaps in the system to engage in litigation extortion. It does not attempt to eliminate valid patent litigation. Protects the Patent System: This legislation does not diminish or devalue patent rights in any way. Increases Transparency: This legislation requires greater transparency in patent litigation and requires parties to explain exactly why they are suing a business or individual. Requiring parties to do a bit of due diligence up front before filing an infringement suit is just plain common sense. It not only reduces litigation expenses, but saves the court’s time and resources. Greater transparency and information is a good thing and it makes our patent system stronger. Prevents Extortion: The legislation prevents any one party in a patent lawsuit from unilaterally racking up extreme litigation costs for another party in an attempt to force a dubious settlement. Provides Greater Clarity: The legislation provides for more clarity surrounding initial discovery, case management, joinder and the common law doctrine of customer stays. The bill works hand-in-hand with the procedures and practices of the Judicial Conference and the courts. Small Business Education: The bill provides for small business education and outreach by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Places Reasonable Limits on Venue in Patent Cases: Restores Congress’s intent that patent infringement suits only be brought in judicial districts that have some reasonable connection to the dispute. Since 1897, Congress has regulated the venue in which patent actions may be brought. These limits protect parties against the burden and inconvenience of litigating patent lawsuits in districts that are remote from any of the underlying events in the case. In 1990 the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit “reinterpreted” that statute in a way that robbed it of all effect. The Innovation Act corrects the Federal Circuit’s error, and restores the congressional purpose of placing some reasonable limits on the venue where a patent action may be brought. Reduces Unnecessary, Expensive Discovery: Requires that courts stay discovery in a patent case when a motion to dismiss or a motion to transfer has been filed. This will help parties avoid expensive, wasteful discovery that might otherwise be used as leverage by patent trolls looking for a quick settlement when a case can be resolved quickly and early. VIDEO: Learn more about the importance of protecting and promoting American innovation by curbing abusive patent litigation by clicking here.
06.09.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 235, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (PITFA), by a voice vote. This broadly bipartisan legislation permanently bans states from taxing Internet access or placing multiple or discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. PITFA keeps the Internet affordable and drives innovation by banning access taxes permanently. If the moratorium is not renewed or made permanent, the potential tax burden on Americans would be substantial. It is estimated that Internet access tax rates could be more than twice the average rate of all other goods and services – and the last thing that Americans need is another tax bill on their doorsteps. Original legislation that temporarily banned Internet access taxes, the Internet Tax Freedom Act (ITFA), was first enacted in 1998 and extended five times with nearly unanimous support. Last Congress, the House of Representatives passed PITFA by voice vote. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Congressman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) issued the following statement after the passage of PITFA: “We applaud the bipartisan passage of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act today in the House. PITFA is a necessary measure to keep Internet access free of taxation. Internet access drives innovation and the success of our economy. It is a gateway to knowledge, opportunity, and the rest of the world. The American people deserve affordable access to the Internet and the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act will help prevent unreasonable cost increases that hurt consumers and slow job creation.”
06.09.2015	Today, the House of Representatives approved the Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act (H.R. 889) by a voice vote. Through a change in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, this legislation bolsters the ability of U.S. museums and schools to borrow foreign government-owned artifacts and artwork from other cultures around the world. H.R. 889 would revive and encourage borrowing from foreign governments to loan portions of their collections to museums and galleries in the United States for public viewing. The ability of U.S. institutions to consistently produce first-class exhibitions depends in large part on assuring foreign governments that their loans will not subject to litigation in U.S. courts. A bipartisan group of lawmakers passed similar legislation during the previous two Congresses, but the United States Senate did not take up the bill prior to the end of those Congresses. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), bill sponsor Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and co-sponsors House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) praised the continued bipartisan support for the legislation, and the approval of the bill once again by the whole House: “We applaud our colleagues for passing an important piece of legislation that will ensure that millions of American are no longer denied the chance to see some of the most important art and artifacts the world has to offer. Both sides of the aisle have come together again to remove barriers that would deny our country’s museums and galleries the ability to borrow works from foreign governments without the restrictions placed by rulings from the federal courts. “This legislation will make foreign artwork and artifacts more accessible to the public to view, study and appreciate in American schools and museums while preserving important protections for Holocaust-related claims. We are pleased that the House has reaffirmed its longstanding appreciation of the arts and the cultural exchange of ideas.” Background: Currently, court decisions interpreting the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) discourage foreign governments from lending government-owned artwork and objects of cultural significance to U.S. museums and schools for temporary exhibit or display. Foreign governments are discouraged by the possibility of litigation in U.S. courts from which they would otherwise be immune. As a result, the ability of U.S. museums and schools to borrow works of art and objects of cultural significance owned by foreign governments has been seriously curtailed in recent years. The Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act fixes this problem by making a narrowly-tailored change to FSIA. This change will make it easier for U.S. museums and educational institutions to borrow works of art and other objects from abroad, increasing Americans’ opportunities for cultural and educational development. This bill also contains an exception for cultural property taken during the Nazi era.
06.03.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced an amendment that will prevent the Department of Justice (DOJ) from using settlements to funnel money to third-party groups. The amendment (H.Amdt.319) to the FY16 Commerce, Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 2578) blocks funding for negotiating settlements that require a defendant to donate to an organization or individual not involved in the litigation. The amendment passed by voice vote. This amendment is a significant achievement in the Committee’s “pattern or practice” investigation of the Justice Department. Since November 2014, the House Judiciary Committee has been gathering evidence that DOJ is systematically subverting Congress’s budget authority by using settlements to funnel money to third-party activist groups. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement following the passage of H.R. 2578 (H.Amdt.319): Chairman Goodlatte: “The passage of this amendment finally puts an end to the serious executive overreach of the Department of Justice in regards to improper donations being allocated in mortgage settlement agreements. A long and difficult investigation led by the House Judiciary Committee shows that the DOJ systematically subverted Congress’s budget authority by allocating donations to third-party groups, rather than to the victims who are deserving of settlement money. “This is a quintessential example of successful oversight. Congress identified a problem, investigated the issue and then took concrete action to correct the problem. This is also an example of Congress putting partisanship aside and acting to protect its institutional interests. This amendment ensures that settlement money goes either directly to victims or to the Treasury for elected representatives to decide how it is spent. “I am proud of the work the Committee has done on this issue, and proud of the House for recognizing that this type of executive overreach must be stopped. For the DOJ to funnel money to the administration’s pet projects at the expense of victims who were harmed by mortgage fraud is appalling, and this bipartisan provision remedies this abuse so that settlement money can go to the deserving victims.” Click here to watch Chairman Goodlatte’s floor statement prior to the passage of the amendment. Background: • An investigation by the House Judiciary and Financial Services Committees reveals that, in just the last eleven months, DOJ has used mandatory donations to direct as much as half- a- billion dollars to activist groups. • These payments occur entirely outside of the Congressional appropriations and oversight process. • The House Judiciary Committee held two hearings in February 2015 and May 2015 to question DOJ officials regarding these troubling settlement practices. • The Committees also sent multiple oversight letters (November 2014 and May 2015) to the Attorney General seeking documents and answers. • DOJ continues to resist the information requests, but what little has been provided confirms that activist groups which stood to gain from mandatory donation provisions were involved in placing those provisions in the settlements. • The investigation is ongoing.
06.02.2015	Following the Senate vote approving the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048) without amendment, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement: “We applaud the Senate for finally approving the House-passed USA Freedom Act. This strong, bipartisan bill contains the most sweeping set of reforms to government surveillance practices in nearly 40 years. The USA Freedom Act ends bulk collection, strengthens civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials with new, targeted tools to keep America safe. “The USA Freedom Act is a carefully crafted compromise that has the support of the President, the Attorney General, the intelligence community, the technology industry and privacy groups, and most importantly, the American people. The Senate should have acted before three national security provisions expired, but we are pleased that this historic piece of legislation is now on its way to becoming the law of the land.” Learn more about the USA Freedom Act here.
06.01.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement on proposed Senate amendments to the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048): “Last night the United States Senate intentionally allowed three provisions of the USA Patriot Act to expire. Every minute spent delaying passage of the widely-supported, bipartisan USA Freedom Act is a minute lost in preventing the next terrorist plot and providing greater civil liberties protections to the American people. The Senate has known for months that these provisions were set to expire last night and yet chose intransigence and procrastination over responsible legislating. The expiration of these authorities affects more than just the NSA bulk collection program. It eliminates tools routinely used by the FBI to investigate domestic terror plots. “The proposed amendments in the Senate impose a data retention notification requirement on American telecommunication providers, give the Director of National Intelligence – and not Congress – the authority to decide whether to end bulk collection, unnecessarily extend the current bulk collection program for a year, and water-down the House-passed FISA Court amicus provision. These amendments only serve to weaken the House-passed bill and postpone timely enactment of legislation that responsibly protects national security while enhancing civil liberty protections. “The House is not likely to accept the changes proposed by Senator McConnell. Section 215 has already expired. These amendments will likely make that sunset permanent. The Senate must act quickly to pass the USA Freedom Act without amendment.” Learn more about the USA Freedom Act here.
05.31.2015	Following the Senate vote to proceed with debate on the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement: “We are pleased that the Senate has acted wisely to proceed with debate on the USA Freedom Act. This decision is long overdue. However, we are disappointed that the Senate has stalled debate on this strong, bipartisan bill and will not vote on it tonight. Because of Senate’s irresponsible inaction, three national security provisions will expire at midnight. We urge the Senate to act as expeditiously as possible to approve the USA Freedom Act, without amendment and without delay, so that we protect Americans’ civil liberties and our national security.” Learn more about the USA Freedom Act here.
05.29.2015	Following the Environmental Protection Agency’s long-awaited release of proposed volume requirements under the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) for the years 2014, 2015, and 2016, Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Peter Welch (D-VT), Steve Womack (R-AR), and Jim Costa (D-CA) released the following statement: “EPA’s 18-month delay in issuing these volume requirements, and the uncertainty this policy has created in the marketplace, makes it even clearer that the RFS is unworkable and in need of reform. While EPA’s proposed reductions acknowledge the underlying issues with the ethanol mandate, unfortunately the numbers released today remain problematic, failing to take into account current market realities, the impending blendwall, and the harm the RFS is causing. “Every day we delay reforming this misguided policy is a day that consumers, small businesses and retailers, the agriculture community, and the environment continue to suffer. A growing majority in Congress has recognized the ‘real-world limitations’ of this bungled policy. The RFS Reform Act is a solution to the problems created by the ethanol mandate, and would finally provide much-needed, long term relief for those impacted by the failures of this policy.”
05.27.2015	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte and Congressman Morgan Griffith issued the following statement: “We are pleased that the United States Postal Service has decided to delay its proposed consolidation of the Roanoke Mail Processing Facility until 2016. It is our hope that this delay will encourage them to reconsider their decision and, ultimately, postpone this vital facility’s closure indefinitely.”
05.26.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit refused to lift the injunction against President Obama’s unilaterally created programs that shield millions of unlawful immigrants from removal and grant them affirmative benefits. “Today’s decision from the federal appeals court is another victory for the Constitution and the American people. President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration poses a clear and present danger to our Constitution and I am pleased that the President’s actions continue to be halted so that the states’ lawsuit can continue to move forward. “By acting unilaterally to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws, President Obama has disregarded the will of the American people and violated the Constitution. Such lawlessness must be stopped so that we preserve the separation of powers in the Constitution and protect individual liberty.” Earlier this month, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), and Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) – in conjunction with the American Center for Law and Justice – filed an amicus brief with the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of Texas v. United States. The amicus brief states that the President’s unilaterally created deferred action programs for unlawful immigrants are unconstitutional and are contrary to congressional intent. A total of 88 Representatives and 25 Senators signed the brief.
05.23.2015	Early this morning, by a vote of 57-42, the bipartisan USA Freedom Act failed to reach the 60-vote threshold to advance in the Senate. Following the Senate’s rejection of the USA Freedom Act, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following joint statement: “The Senate’s rejection of the USA Freedom Act, a bipartisan bill that overwhelmingly passed in the House of Representatives, misses an opportunity to protect our civil liberties while also maintaining our national security. The USA Freedom Act is a carefully crafted compromise that has earned the support of the White House, the intelligence community, privacy and civil liberties advocates, private industry, Republicans and Democrats, and most importantly the American people. “The USA Freedom Act, which the House passed 338-88, ends bulk collection of data, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach. The bill preserves key intelligence-gathering authorities while prohibiting bulk collection under Section 215, consistent with the Second Circuit Court of Appeals’ decision. Section 215 would remain a valuable counterterrorism tool for the FBI and a targeted call detail records authority would replace the NSA’s current, unlawful program. “Because the Senate has rejected the USA Freedom Act, Section 215—and the NSA’s bulk collection program that some in the Senate are trying to preserve—will now expire before the House reconvenes on the evening of June 1. The Senate has failed to make the important reforms necessary, jeopardizing Americans’ civil liberties and our national security.”
05.22.2015	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the following statement regarding attempts at a short-term extension in the Senate of the Patriot Act and other reported proposals. “The USA Freedom Act is a carefully crafted compromise that has been worked on for nearly two years and was passed overwhelmingly in the House by a vote of 338-88. It has been fully vetted and has won the backing of the intelligence community, civil liberties groups, private industry, the Attorney General, and the President, as well as having the support of the American people. Importantly, the National Security Agency has said that the 180-day transition period contained in the bill is enough time to get the new call detail record program up and running. “The House of Representatives has now acted twice to reform our intelligence-gathering programs, making sure it protects Americans’ liberties and our national security, but the Senate has failed to act. The Senate should immediately pass this bipartisan bill instead of hastily and irresponsibly trying to scramble something together in the eleventh hour. The short-term extensions and other proposals being discussed in the Senate don’t have the support to pass in the House of Representatives. The Second Circuit Court of Appeals has already ruled the bulk collection program as unlawful and extending it any further is unacceptable. “If the Senate rejects the USA Freedom Act, Section 215, including the bulk collection program some Senators are trying to preserve, will expire. While Section 215 was used to wrongly justify the government’s bulk collection program, it is also routinely used by the FBI in individual national security investigations to identify and apprehend terrorists and spies. The USA Freedom Act eliminates bulk collection while retaining the necessary tools to maintain our national security. The only way for the Senate to ensure that Americans’ civil liberties and our national security are protected is to pass the USA Freedom Act before June 1.”
05.19.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte announced today that Kayla Prillaman, a senior at William Fleming High School, is the winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2015 Congressional Art Competition. Her photograph, Autumn Trails, was taken at Carvins Cove Natural Reserve in Roanoke County. Kayla resides in Roanoke and is the daughter of Tonya Prillaman. Her photography instructor at William Fleming High School is David Spangler. “Congratulations, Kayla! We are blessed to be surrounded by so much natural beauty in the Sixth District, and Autumn Trails truly captures the beauty of the landscape that draws many to our region each year. Kayla’s eye for photography shines clearly in this photo. I am pleased that her piece will be on display in the U.S. Capitol to allow others the opportunity to experience what we have right in our backyard. The talent of our students in the Sixth District is always impressive, and I applaud the efforts of each student who submitted artwork this year. Thank you to everyone who participated as well as the teachers and parents who are encouraging them to discover their artistic talents.” Autumn Trails by Kayla Prillaman Kayla’s photograph will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of a display of artwork by high school artists from across the nation. Only one piece from each congressional district is selected for display. Kayla’s achievement will be honored at an awards ceremony at the Capitol in June. The runner-up is Aliyah Decker, a student at Heritage High School in Lynchburg, for her piece entitled No Outlet. This piece will be on display in Congressman Goodlatte’s Lynchburg office.
05.19.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 420-3 the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act of 2015 (S. 178) and the bill is now headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law. This comprehensive anti-human trafficking bill provides additional resources to law enforcement and service providers, helps to facilitate human trafficking investigations, criminalizes the demand side of this crime, and strengthens the existing federal criminal laws against trafficking. The House has already twice passed companion legislation introduced by Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas) to fight human trafficking, once in the 113th Congress and again earlier this year. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded House passage of S. 178 in the statement below. Chairman Goodlatte: “The sale of children for sex sounds like something that could only happen in faraway places, but tragically it is happening right here in the United States every single day. According to the FBI, sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. Sadly, this immoral and illicit industry is also a profitable one. It’s estimated that child sex trafficking in the United States alone is a $9.8 billion industry. Together as a nation, we must send the strong message that our children are not for sale. “The House of Representatives today acted for the third time to fight human trafficking. The legislation passed today holds everyone involved in these crimes accountable, whether they sell, buy, or market these children to potential buyers. It also ensures that exploited children are treated as victims rather than as criminals and provides much-needed resources to victims of sex trafficking that will help them reclaim and rebuild their lives. I thank my colleagues, Representatives Ted Poe, Kristi Noem, Erik Paulsen, and Ann Wagner, for working tirelessly on this issue, and am pleased this bill will soon be signed into law so that we better protect our nation’s children.” S. 178 contains a number of separate anti-human trafficking bills that were originally passed by the House Judiciary Committee and then by the House of Representatives: The Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act (H.R. 350): This bill, authored by Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), launches a review that will look into federal and state trafficking prevention activities in order to identify best practices to stop human trafficking; requires an inventory of existing federal anti-trafficking efforts to make sure all federal agencies and programs work together and that federal resources are being targeted where needed; and improves existing Department of Justice grants, ensuring that the grants also support shelters for survivors. The Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 159): This legislation, sponsored by Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.), provides incentives to states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked children as victims, rather than as criminals or delinquents. The bill also provides an avenue for victims to access job skills training so that they can begin to rebuild their lives. The Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act (H.R. 285): This bill, authored by Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), criminalizes those who knowingly advertise or profit from advertisements that offer the commercial exploitation of children and trafficking victims.
05.14.2015	The Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General today issued a report on the events of March 4, 2015 in which two Secret Service agents suspected of driving under the influence of alcohol disrupted an active bomb investigation at the White House Complex. In its report, the IG concludes that it was more likely than not that the two agents’ judgment was impaired by alcohol, noting that the two agents had just spent the last five hours in a bar and one of the agents ran up a significant bar tab. The report also found that those involved with the situation – the watch commander who initially stopped the two agents, various superiors, and the agents themselves – failed to appropriately report the situation, and that the two agents were permitted to drive home in government vehicles. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on this IG report: “Not only did the two Secret Service agents endanger their own lives and innocent civilians by choosing to drink and drive, their poor judgement also imperiled the entire White House complex by bumbling into an active bomb investigation. Secret Service leadership must send the strong message to agency employees that there will be consequences for such bad behavior and lack of common sense. Additionally, they also need to make clear that employees are required to report misconduct to the appropriate authorities at the agency. While the Inspector General’s report notes that some of these issues have been addressed since the March 4th incident, more must be done. “The House Judiciary Committee has conducted aggressive oversight of the United States Secret Service and will continue to do so. Additionally, I and other members of the Committee have introduced bipartisan legislation that reforms the United States Secret Service. It’s imperative that the Secret Service protect the President, White House personnel, and innocent civilians from threats from outside entities and from within the agency itself.” Background: In March, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) introduced the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 1656) to reform the United States Secret Service. The bill strengthens the security of the President, protectees, and the White House complex; enhances Secret Service agents’ training; and improves transparency and accountability at the agency. Additionally, the House Judiciary Committee held an oversight hearing on the United States Secret Service in November 2014.
05.14.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved H.R. 758, the Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act (LARA) by a vote of 19-13. Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the Committee’s approval of the legislation that will reduce frivolous lawsuits in the United States. Chairman Goodlatte: “Frivolous lawsuits have no place in the American courtroom, and current loopholes allow too many lawyers to take advantage of innocent victims. Current laws allow lawyers to file baseless claims, and pass legal costs on to the victims with no guarantee of compensation. That’s why the passage of LARA is essential to end lawsuit abuse. LARA guarantees that victims are fully compensated for harm done by filers of frivolous lawsuits in federal courts.” “It is my hope that LARA, one of the Speaker’s top legal reform priorities, is passed again by the full House of Representatives.” Background: LARA restores accountability to our legal system by penalizing lawyers for filing baseless lawsuits. The bill specifically ensures that judges impose monetary sanctions against lawyers who file frivolous lawsuits, including the attorney’s fees and costs incurred by the victim of the frivolous lawsuit; and reverses the 1993 amendments to Rule 11 that allow parties and their attorneys make frivolous claims without penalty by withdrawing them within 21 days. LARA supports innocent Americans who are victims of frivolous lawsuits: LARA makes mandatory that victims of frivolous lawsuits be compensated for harm done to them by filers of frivolous lawsuits. LARA is even-handed: LARA applies to cases brought by individuals as well as businesses both large and small. The bill also applies to both plaintiffs and defendants. LARA ends the “free pass” for lawyers: The bill eliminates the 21-day “free pass” for lawyers to file frivolous pleadings. Current federal rules allow lawyers to file frivolous pleadings without any sanctions as long as they withdraw those pleadings within 21 days, even if the victims of the frivolous lawsuit had to spend time and money responding to the frivolous pleadings. LARA protects states’ rights: LARA only applies to federal court and does not change state court rules.
05.13.2015	The Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General today issued a report finding that DHS does not track its uses of prosecutorial discretion in immigration enforcement which may compromise national security and public safety. Prosecutorial discretion is a tool that is meant to be used on an individual basis but has instead been applied to entire categories of unlawful immigrants by the Obama Administration. In its report, the IG recommends that DHS develop and implement a plan to collect, analyze, and report data on the use of prosecutorial discretion to assess immigration enforcement activities, improve policy, and increase transparency. The House Judiciary Committee has approved legislation – the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 1148) – that would require DHS to report to Congress annually on the Administration’s use and abuse of prosecutorial discretion, among many other provisions. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on this IG report: “Not only are President Obama’s unilaterally-created immigration policies and programs unconstitutional, their implementation has proved to needlessly place Americans and our country at risk. As confirmed by today’s Inspector General report, the Department of Homeland Security does not track its use of prosecutorial discretion nor does it always conduct thorough background checks on the individuals benefitting from the Administration’s lax policies. As a result, the American people are left in the dark about the effects of the Administration’s immigration policies and dangerous criminal aliens who have committed a crime in their home country may be able to find amnesty in the United States. While it is inexcusable that DHS does not monitor the use of prosecutorial discretion, it’s even more important that the Obama Administration end its reckless policies.” Key Findings from the IG Report: • “Although DHS reports immigration enforcement data such as alien apprehensions, detentions, and removals, it does not include the components’ use of prosecutorial discretion in its reports.” (page 4) • “ICE could not provide the number of DACA-eligible individuals it has released, but it recorded its use of prosecutorial discretion ... ICE officials noted that field office personnel do not always record their use of prosecutorial discretion because they make these decisions daily and it would be too time consuming to record every occurrence.” (page 4) • “The Department does not have a mechanism to continuously monitor its use of prosecutorial discretion and improve future policy.” (page 6) • “When applying prosecutorial discretion, ICE field office personnel said they might not always have access to an individual’s criminal history in his or her country of origin. As a result, aliens convicted of or wanted for a felony committed in their home country, but not convicted of a felony or significant misdemeanor in the United States may not be identified as a DHS enforcement priority.” (pages 6-7) Learn more about the Obama Administration’s lax immigration enforcement policies here.
05.13.2015	Today, U.S. Representative Bob Goodlatte and U.S. Senator Tim Kaine introduced legislation in the Senate and House to remove federal land use restrictions on an area used by a day care center in Rockingham County. The Plains Area Day Care Center in Broadway, VA, has provided affordable childcare for 25 years and currently provides care for 94 children, many of whom are eligible for free and reduced lunch. The Center’s building is in need of repair and maintenance but has encountered hurdles in securing financing due to the property’s complex legal status as former federal land conveyed to Rockingham County and leased to the Center. This legislation would remove the federal land use restrictions, ensuring that routine repairs can take place without further delay in the future. Congressman Goodlatte introduced similar legislation in the 113th Congress that passed the House of Representatives with nearly unanimous support. “I was pleased to see the House pass my legislation in the 113th Congress, and I welcome Senator Kaine’s support as we renew this effort,” said Goodlatte. “The Plains Area Day Care Center is committed to providing high quality childcare, and the investments they are making in the community are immeasurable. For 25 years, the land has been deeded to Rockingham County, but with restriction. This legislation is simply a formality. By removing the restrictions on the land, we can ensure this community investment continues to thrive and the children in the community are well-served.” “The Plains Area Day Care Center has provided critical services to families in Rockingham County and is a beloved anchor in the community,” said Kaine. “I’m proud to partner with Congressman Goodlatte to introduce legislation that would remove land use restrictions that prevent the Plains Area Day Care Center from planning for its future in a responsible and independent way, consistent with the community’s appreciation for park land.”
05.13.2015	The House of Representatives today approved the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36) in a bipartisan vote of 242-184, which would ban abortions, with limited exceptions, in the United States after 20 weeks post fertilization. Since the Supreme Court’s controversial decision in Roe v. Wade in 1973, medical knowledge regarding the development of unborn babies and their capacities at various stages of growth has advanced dramatically. Extensive medical research shows that unborn children begin to feel pain by 20 weeks post fertilization, and probably earlier. Also passed during the 113th Congress, the legislation would directly acknowledge advances in medical research and guarantee unborn children the necessary protections from late term abortions. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s vote by the House of Representatives: Chairman Goodlatte: “House passage of the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is a victory for the most innocent and defenseless among us, our children. “The passage of today’s bill comes on the anniversary of the conviction of Philadelphia abortionist Kermit Gosnell, who was found guilty of murdering three babies by severing their spinal cords following unsuccessful abortions. The facts uncovered during the course of the trial of late-term abortionist Kermit Gosnell, and successive reports of similar atrocities committed across the country, remind us how an atmosphere of insensitivity can lead to horrific brutality. “Current medical research tells us that late-term abortions are cruel to unborn children and do not exist in the gray areas of morality. Additionally, the majority of the American people—including women, independent voters, and those between the ages of 18-29 years old—support an end to cruel and atrocious practice. “In the 2007 Supreme Court case Gonzales v. Carhart, the Supreme Court made clear that Congress may show such respect for the unborn through “specific regulation because it implicates additional ethical and moral concerns that justify a special prohibition.” “Today the House of Representatives once again took a stand against such atrocities and passed legislation that protects babies from such cruelty by banning late term abortions. Delivered or not, babies are babies, and it has been shown that they can feel pain at least by 20 weeks. These babies deserve to live.” VIDEO of Congressman Goodlatte's remarks in support of H.R. 36.
05.13.2015	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 338-88 the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048). This bipartisan bill – introduced by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Section 215 of the Patriot Act, along with two other provisions, are set to expire at the end of the month. The USA Freedom Act expands upon the civil liberties protections contained in the bill approved by the House of Representatives last year. It ends bulk collection of data, strengthens protections for civil liberties, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach, while also enhancing national security. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of civil liberties advocates and technology groups, and has been vetted by national security agencies. It also has the support of President Obama. Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Nadler praised today’s vote in the joint statement below. “The American people have told Congress loud and clear that we need to rein in our nation’s surveillance programs and today the House of Representatives listened to them by passing the USA Freedom Act. This strong, bipartisan bill contains the most sweeping set of reforms to government surveillance practices in nearly 40 years. The USA Freedom Act ends bulk collection once and for all, enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe. “In light of last week’s ruling by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals that the government’s bulk collection program exceeds what is authorized under Section 215 of the Patriot Act, the Senate should waste no time defending a program that has been ruled unlawful and take up the USA Freedom Act as soon as possible.” Key Components of the USA Freedom Act: Protects civil liberties: • Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. • Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. • Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: • Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. • Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. • Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. • Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Strengthens national security: • Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. • Contains an additional tool to combat ISIS: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. • Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. • Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. • Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here. VIDEO of Congressman Goodlatte's remarks on the House floor in support of the USA Freedom Act.
05.12.2015	Chairman Goodlatte: This week in Washington, D.C., we are celebrating National Police Week. This annual tradition, which draws tens of thousands of law enforcement officers from around the country, is a time to celebrate the critical role that police play in maintaining a free and safe society. It is also a time to mourn our nation’s fallen heroes. Last year, 127 men and women gave their lives while protecting Americans’ public safety, including 3 officers in my home state of Virginia. The average age of these fallen officers is just 40 years old, which is too young to be taken from their loved ones. The Blue Alert system, which is currently in place in 20 states, is a cooperative effort among local, state and federal authorities, law enforcement agencies, and the general public. S. 665, the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015, seeks to expand on these existing programs by encouraging an enhanced nationwide system for the distribution of time-sensitive information to help identify and locate a violent suspect when a law enforcement officer is injured or killed in the line of duty, or when there is an imminent and credible threat against an officer. Similar to Amber Alerts for missing children and Silver Alerts for missing seniors, Blue Alerts broadcast information about suspects, including a description of an offender who is still at large and, if available, a description of the offender’s vehicle and license plate information. Like Amber Alerts, Blue Alerts are intended to hinder the offender’s ability to escape and will facilitate their capture. S. 665 directs the Justice Department to designate an existing employee as the Blue Alert national coordinator who will establish voluntary guidelines for the program and encourage those states that have not already done so to develop Blue Alert plans. The House has passed similar versions of this legislation in the past two Congresses, but those bills were not taken up by the Senate. The version of the Blue Alert bill that we consider today is different for two important reasons. First, unlike the Blue Alert bills from prior Congresses that passed this body, only to wither away in the Senate, S. 665 will be sent directly to the President’s desk for signature following House passage. I urge him to sign this legislation without delay. Second, S. 665 is named after New York City police officers Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu who, in December 2014, were murdered in cold blood by a malevolent killer who travelled from Baltimore to Brooklyn with the stated intention of shooting police officers. Officer Ramos left behind a wife and a thirteen-year old son. Officer Liu left behind his wife of just two months. This bill – a tribute to their service and sacrifice – will hopefully spare other families from the pain of losing a loved one. I thank Senator Cardin, Mr. Reichert of Washington, and the many bipartisan cosponsors of both the House and Senate bills for their work on this important legislation. I also thank the many outside law enforcement organizations that have tirelessly promoted the Blue Alert program over the past several years. This bill reaffirms Congress’s commitment to ensure the safety of the men and women in our nation’s law enforcement communities and the citizens they serve and protect every day. I urge my colleagues to support this bipartisan legislation, and I reserve the balance of my time. Click here to watch Congressman Goodlatte's remarks on the House floor.
05.12.2015	The House of Representatives today approved the Rafael Ramos and Wenjian Liu National Blue Alert Act of 2015 (S. 665) by voice vote and the bill is now headed to the President’s desk to be signed into law. Named after two New York Police Department officers who were recently murdered in the line of duty, this legislation will help to establish a nationwide alert system for distribution of time-sensitive information to better identify a violent suspect when a law enforcement officer is injured or killed in the line of duty. A Blue Alert provides a description of an offender who is still at large and may include a description of the offender’s vehicle and license plate information. Earlier this month, another NYPD police officer, Brian Moore, was murdered while on duty. And this past weekend, two Hattiesburg, Mississippi police officers – Benjamin Deen and Liquori Tate – were fatally shot during a routine traffic stop. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) praised the passage of this legislation in the statement below. “In 2014, 127 officers gave their lives while protecting Americans’ public safety, including three officers from the Commonwealth of Virginia and two from Michigan. These are sober reminders that our nation’s law enforcement professionals face danger every day as they carry out their duty to protect the American people. We must do our part to protect their lives as they do the same for us each day. “Today’s House approval of this legislation reaffirms our commitment to ensure the safety of the men and women in law enforcement and the citizens they serve to protect every day. This bill ensures that when tragedy strikes, the public is on notice and suspects can be more quickly apprehended and brought to justice. Like Amber Alerts, Blue Alerts help to hinder the offender’s ability to escape and will facilitate their capture. We thank Congressmen Reichert and Pascrell for introducing the House companion to this important legislation and look forward to its swift enactment.”
05.12.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act. Congressman Bob Goodlatte, a cosponsor of this bill, released the following statement: “In Virginia and the Chesapeake Bay watershed we have already seen the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) micromanaging state and local water decisions. The proposed Waters of the U.S. rule would only serve to expand this type of regulatory overreach to the entire United States. Congress intended that the states and federal government work together to implement the Clean Water Act. Instead, the Obama Administration is handing down its own murky definition. “The impact of the Waters of the U.S. rule on farmers, landowners, local economies, and jobs is very real. As the Administration works to put the finishing touches on this rule, it is critical that Congress stop it in its tracks. The Regulatory Integrity Protection Act would give the Administration 30 days to withdraw the current proposed rule. The EPA and Army Corps of Engineers would then be tasked with developing a new proposed rule that actually takes into account the economic impacts of the rule and recommendations from state and local governments as well as stakeholders affected by the rule. “Protecting America’s waterways is critical, but this should be a collaborative approach. We need common sense policies that will protect water quality without limiting economic growth and unfairly over-regulating local agricultural producers and economies. Today’s bipartisan vote was an important step to rein in the EPA and protect the farmers, landowners, and local economies that stand to be harmed by this rule.” Background: Last year, the EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers issued a proposed rule to expand the scope of the term “waters of the United States,” which are those waters that are regulated under the Clean Water Act. This move would expand the EPA’s authority over regulating waterways.
05.11.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), and Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) – in conjunction with the American Center for Law and Justice – today filed an amicus brief with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in support of a continued injunction against President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in the case of Texas v. United States. The amicus brief states that the President’s unilaterally created deferred action programs for unlawful immigrants are unconstitutional and are contrary to congressional intent. A total of 88 Members of Congress and 25 Senators signed the brief. In December, numerous states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte, Congressman Smith, Senator Cornyn, and Senator Cruz signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015 a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions. Since then, political appointees at the Justice Department have filed an appeal to lift the injunction. Oral arguments were heard by the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals on April 17, 2015. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below after filing this brief in federal court. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s decision to ignore the limits placed on his power and act unilaterally to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws are an affront to the Constitution. The President himself stated over 20 times that he does not have the authority to change immigration laws on his own yet he did so anyway. Such lawlessness must be stopped so that we preserve the separation of powers in the Constitution and protect individual liberty.” Additional Background: On February 25, 2015, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration and heard from several constitutional scholars who agreed the President’s actions are unconstitutional. At the hearing, Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt testified; Nevada is one of the 26 states that have challenged President Obama’s unilateral actions. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte has outlined several consequences of President Obama’s unilateral actions on immigration, which can be found here.
05.07.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today marking the 64th annual National Day of Prayer: “This year’s National Day of Prayer comes at a time when our nation has been tested on fronts both at home and abroad. ‘Lord, hear our cry,’ – the theme for this year is a reminder of a need to pray for healing and unity as a nation. James 5:16 tells us that ‘the prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective.’ Because of this, we can trust that when His people pray, the Lord hears. I hope you will join with me today in lifting up the United States of America in prayer. It is an honor to represent the Sixth District of Virginia in the House of Representatives, and I continue to ask for your prayers for guidance and wisdom. May God bless and keep each of you.”
05.07.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) issued the statement below after the Second Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the National Security Agency’s bulk collection program is not authorized under Section 215 of the Patriot Act. Congressmen Goodlatte, Conyers, Sensenbrenner, and Nadler are the authors of the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048), which ends bulk collection and reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. “Today’s federal appeals court ruling confirms what we’ve been saying all along: bulk collection of data is not authorized under the law and is not accepted by the American people. It also reaffirms that a straight reauthorization of the bulk collection program is not a choice for Congress. Next week, the House of Representatives will vote on the USA Freedom Act, which contains the most sweeping set of reforms to government surveillance practices in nearly 40 years. This bill ends bulk collection of data, strengthens protections for civil liberties, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach, while also protecting national security. The Senate should waste no time defending a program that has been ruled unlawful by the Second Circuit and take up this strong, bipartisan bill as soon as possible.” Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here.
05.01.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) today announced that the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing to examine police accountability, aggression towards law enforcement, public safety concerns related to these issues, and solutions to address these problems. The hearing will be held this month and witnesses will be announced at a later date. Chairman Goodlatte and Ranking Member Conyers issued the following statements on the upcoming hearing. Chairman Goodlatte: “Tragic news reports of excessive force by law enforcement and attacks on police officers have raised our nation’s conscience about how law enforcement interacts with our nation’s citizens. In the coming weeks, the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing so we can work together to ensure the safety of our communities, our citizens and those charged with protecting them.” Ranking Member Conyers: “Our country has been plagued by unrest due to a series of tragic incidents related to police-involved violence. In far too many cases, we have experienced situations that are further dividing communities and law enforcement. I am pleased that we will be having a hearing to examine this national crisis impacting the nation and look forward to working with Chairman Goodlatte on these critical issues.”
04.30.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 25-2 the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 2048). This bipartisan bill – introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.), along with 19 other bipartisan House Judiciary Committee cosponsors – reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. The USA Freedom Act expands upon the civil liberties protections contained in the bill approved by the House of Representatives last year. It ends bulk collection of data, strengthens protections for civil liberties, increases transparency, and prevents government overreach, while also protecting national security. The bill is supported by a broad coalition of civil liberties advocates and technology groups, and has been vetted by national security agencies. Chairman Goodlatte, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Ranking Member Conyers, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Nadler praised today’s Committee vote in the joint statement below. “Today’s strong, bipartisan vote in the House Judiciary Committee to approve the USA Freedom Act demonstrates that surveillance reform is not a partisan issue, it’s an American issue. The USA Freedom Act reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs to ensure they operate in a manner that reflects core American values. This bill ends bulk collection once and for all, enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe from foreign enemies. “We urge both the House and Senate to move expeditiously on this legislation so that we rein in government overreach and rebuild trust with the American people.” Key Components of the USA Freedom Act: Protects civil liberties: • Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. • Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. • Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: • Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. • Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. • Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. • Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Strengthens national security: • Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. • Contains an additional tool to combat ISIL: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. • Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. • Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. • Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. • Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here.
04.29.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below regarding the introduction of patent reform legislation by Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Ranking Member Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.). “I am encouraged that Chairman Grassley, Ranking Member Leahy and a bipartisan coalition of other Senators have introduced legislation to combat the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation. While differences remain between the Innovation Act, which I introduced in the House earlier this year, and the Senate bill, I look forward to working with my colleagues to enact strong, meaningful reforms to curb patent litigation abuses.” Background: Earlier this year, Chairman Goodlatte introduced the bipartisan Innovation Act (H.R. 9), which addresses abusive patent litigation. The Innovation Act previously passed the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 325-91. That legislation was supported by a wide range of groups that include stakeholders from all areas of our economy representing businesses of all kinds from every corner of our country including independent inventors and innovators.
04.28.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerry Nadler (D-N.Y.) today will introduce the USA Freedom Act. This bipartisan bill builds on the Committee’s extensive work on this issue last Congress, containing even stronger protections for Americans’ civil liberties, providing for even greater transparency for both the private sector and government, and preventing government overreach, while enhancing national security. The House Judiciary Committee will mark up this legislation on Thursday, April 30th at 10:00 a.m. in 2141 Rayburn House Office Building. In June 2013, unauthorized disclosures of classified information revealed to the American people that the National Security Agency had been collecting bulk telephony “metadata” under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). Following the revelation of this information, the House Judiciary Committee worked extensively last Congress to end the NSA’s bulk collection program: it conducted aggressive oversight of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA and approved bipartisan legislation in Committee, which was ultimately passed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives. However, the Senate failed to pass legislation on this issue. Chairman Goodlatte, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Ranking Member Conyers, and Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Nadler praised the introduction of the bill in the joint statement below. “As several intelligence-gathering programs are set to expire in a month, it is imperative that we reform these programs to protect Americans’ privacy while at the same time protecting our national security. The bipartisan bill introduced today builds on the Committee’s work on this issue last year. It enhances civil liberties protections, increases transparency for both American businesses and the government, ends the bulk collection of data, and provides national security officials targeted tools to keep America safe from foreign enemies. We look forward to expeditiously moving this strong, bipartisan bill through the House Judiciary Committee and then through Congress so that we rein in government overreach and rebuild trust with the American people. We thank Senators Lee and Leahy for working on this issue and introducing companion legislation in the Senate.” Key Components of the USA Freedom Act: Protects civil liberties: Ends bulk collection: Prohibits bulk collection of ALL records under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act, the FISA pen register authority, and national security letter statutes. Prevents government overreach: The bulk collection prohibition is strengthened by prohibiting large-scale, indiscriminate collection, such as all records from an entire state, city, or zip code. Allows challenges of national security letter gag orders: NSL nondisclosure orders must be based upon a danger to national security or interference with an investigation. Codifies procedures for individual companies to challenge nondisclosure orders. Requires periodic review of nondisclosure orders to determine necessity. Improves transparency and better information-sharing with the American people: Expertise at the FISA court: The bill creates a panel of amicus curie at the FISA court to provide guidance on matters of privacy and civil liberties, communications technology, and other technical or legal matters. Declassified FISA opinions: All significant constructions or interpretations of law by the FISA court must be made public. These include all significant interpretations of the definition of “specific selection term,” the concept at the heart of the ban on bulk collection. Robust government reporting: The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence will provide the public with detailed information about how they use these national security authorities. Robust company reporting: Tech companies will have a range of options for describing how they respond to national security orders, all consistent with national security needs. Strengthens national security: Gives the government the tools it needs: Creates a new call detail records program that is closely overseen by the FISA court. Contains an additional tool to combat ISIL: The bill closes a loophole in current law that requires the government to stop tracking foreign terrorists when they enter the U.S. This provision gives the government 72 hours to track foreign terrorists when they initially enter the United States (it does not apply to U.S. persons) – enough time for the government to obtain the proper authority under U.S. law. Increases the statutory maximum prison sentence to 20 years for providing material support or resources to a designated foreign terrorist organization. Enhances investigations of international proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Protects United States’ maritime activities from nuclear threats, weapons of mass destruction, and other threats by implementing the obligations of various treaties to which the United States is a party. Provides strictly limited emergency authorities: Creates new procedures for the emergency use of Section 215 but requires the government to destroy the information it collects if a FISA court application is denied. Learn more about the USA Freedom Act by clicking here.
04.28.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below regarding the Department of Homeland Security and Department of Labor’s new regulations for the H-2B seasonal guestworker program. “The Obama Administration had the opportunity to issue user-friendly regulations for the thousands of American employers who use the H-2B program, but it knowingly failed to do so. The new regulations issued by the Obama Administration are overly burdensome for the small and seasonal businesses that play by the rules and use this guestworker program to hire a legal workforce. By keeping the Department of Labor’s heavy hand in the process, employers will face more red tape and higher costs when using the program. The House Judiciary Committee is closely examining this issue and the impact of the Administration’s new regulations.” Background: Earlier this month, Chairman Goodlatte sent a letter signed by 36 Members of Congress to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson asking that the Obama Administration’s new regulations for the H-2B seasonal guestworker program be user-friendly for the thousands of businesses that rely on the program and protect American workers. The H-2B guestworker program is used by American employers to hire foreign workers for temporary and seasonal work, such as forestry, seafood processing, and other industries. On March 4, 2015, a federal district court ruled that the Department of Labor lacked the authority under the Immigration and Nationality Act to issue regulations for the H-2B program. The new regulations can be found here and here.
04.22.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement congratulating Amazement Square in Lynchburg on receiving the 2015 National Medal for Museum and Library Service: “Congratulations to Mort Sajadian and his team on receiving this well-deserved honor! I am thrilled that Amazement Square was selected as the recipient of the National Medal for Museum and Library Service. From their unique partnerships with the region’s schools and hands-on workshops for youth who are living with severe physical and mental challenges to providing interactive, educational programming for children of all ages, Amazement Square is a shining example of how a museum can be an asset to the region that it serves. Our communities would benefit from more organizations with the heart of Amazement Square.” Background: According to the Institute of Museum and Library Services, the National Medal is the nation’s highest honor given to museums and libraries for service to the community. More information is available here.
04.22.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2015 (H.R. 1927) to strengthen federal class action lawsuit rules by ensuring victims who have experienced actual or comparable injury are justly compensated. The bill calls for reforms to the current federal class action lawsuit framework by requiring classes that consist of members with the same type and extent of injury. Under the proposed legislation, uninjured or non-comparably injured parties can still join class actions, but must do so separately from parties that experienced more extensive injury. The Subcommittee on the Constitution and Civil Justice is scheduled to hold a legislative hearing on the bill on Wednesday, April 29, 2015. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement on the introduction of the Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act of 2015: “The Fairness in Class Action Litigation Act is a simple, one-page bill, that furthers a common sense principle that should apply to class action lawsuits in the future. Only those people who share injuries of the same type and extent should be part of a class action lawsuit. I was proud to help move the Class Action Fairness Act through Congress 10 years ago, and today I am introducing this legislation to supplement the protections afforded to victims in class actions, and further reduce wasteful litigation in our courts.”
04.21.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the “retirement” of Michele Leonhart, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration. Chairman Goodlatte: “Over the past few weeks, the House Judiciary Committee’s oversight has revealed systemic problems in the disciplinary process at the Drug Enforcement Administration that have permeated several levels of management. In fact, the Department of Justice Inspector General recently testified before the Committee that often it is the supervisors who fail to report agent misconduct to the appropriate authorities and that some supervisors have actually exhibited atrocious behavior as well. The DEA’s pattern of protecting its own agents at the expense of the transparency and justice that the American people deserve must end. Therefore, I believe a change in leadership at the DEA is warranted. “The House Judiciary Committee will continue its investigation of misconduct at the DEA and will do whatever it takes to see that these problems are fixed by the agency. Leadership at the DEA must crack down on bad behavior so that trust is rebuilt with the American people.” Background: The House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over federal law enforcement, recently held a hearing on misconduct in federal law enforcement.
04.18.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement after receiving a Special Conservation Award from the Izaak Walton League of America for his work behind the scenes to permanently protect the historic Natural Bridge: “As a supporter of conservation and recreation efforts around the Sixth District, I saw this as another opportunity to help protect a very special natural structure that serves as the namesake for the county in which it stands. It was my pleasure to see the sale of Natural Bridge come to fruition and to assist my constituents, Jim Woltz and Tom Clarke, in communicating with the Internal Revenue Service. In helping make this possible, I was simply doing what I do every day – responding to constituents who identified a problem, helping them try to solve the problem, and seeing it through. In this case, the results were very gratifying. I am honored to accept this Special Conservation Award and look forward to continuing to work with everyone associated with the work to protect Natural Bridge.”
04.16.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1105, the Death Tax Repeal Act, by a vote of 240-179. Congressman Bob Goodlatte, a cosponsor H.R. 1105, released the following statement: “As many have said during today’s debate, death should not be a taxable event. That’s why I voted in support of the Death Tax Repeal Act to permanently repeal the burdensome tax that penalizes many families in America. Hardworking men and women spend a lifetime saving and providing for their children and grandchildren, paying taxes all the while. They want to leave behind a business or a farm as well as greater opportunities for the next generation. However, when they pass away these earnings are taxed yet again. While these businesses or farms may show significant assets on paper, it can be in the form of equipment, buildings, or land – not the cash needed to pay the IRS. Oftentimes, these costs can lead to the family business or farm having to be sold altogether, instead of being passed on to the next generation. In the Sixth District, it is these family farms and small businesses that are at the very foundation of our local economy. “Repealing the death tax is part of a much-needed overhaul of our tax system that will help keep America competitive in the global economy and protect families in Virginia from facing this unwelcome burden. Instead of taxing businesses and farms out of existence, repealing the death tax will help to create and maintain jobs.”
04.15.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement on Tax Day: “Like clockwork, Tax Day comes around each year bringing with it long hours spent navigating tax forms, confusion about changing tax policies, and many last minute trips to the post office. Tax Day most reminds us of the complexity, frustrations, and unfairness of our tax code. Everyone has ideas for how to reform our tax code, but unless we have a mechanism that forces Congress to actually debate and enact a new tax system we are left with the status quo. This is why I have reintroduced the Tax Code Termination Act, H.R. 27, which would abolish the Internal Revenue Code by December 31, 2019, and call on Congress to approve a new federal tax system by July of the same year. “Anyone who has filed taxes knows that our tax code is a mess. We need a tax code that works for the taxpayers – one that is fairer and simpler and empowers American families and businesses. Having a date-certain to end the current tax code will force the issue to the top of the national agenda and will allow us, as a nation, to collectively decide what the new tax system should look like. The Tax Code Termination Act is a bold solution, but that is the type of solution we will need to force Congress to act on real tax reform instead of just skimming the top layers. Americans deserve better. Now is the time to scrap the tax code and get serious about tax reform.”
04.15.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 15-10, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act (REINS Act) (H.R. 427). This bill, sponsored by Congressman Todd Young (R-Ind.), curbs unnecessary regulations from agencies and holds federal bureaucrats accountable for imposing the heaviest burdens on America's economy. The REINS Act requires that federal agencies submit major regulations to Congress for approval; guarantees that no major regulation becomes effective until Congress approves it; and provides that an expedited up or down vote occurs on major rules within 70 legislative days. The REINS Act was passed during the previous two Congresses, and reintroduced by Congressman Young this year along with a Senate version of the bill introduced by Senator Rand Paul (R-Ky.). House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today's Committee passage of the legislation. Chairman Goodlatte: "Unnecessary regulation imposed by federal bureaucrats hinders job creation and hurts millions of Americans who struggle to secure full-time employment. In 2013 alone, unnecessary regulation imposed an estimated burden of $1.86 trillion, which adds up to approximately $15,000 per U.S. household. Americans simply cannot afford to pick up the tab of federal bureaucrats. Americans deserve an accountable regulatory system. The REINS Act frees Americans from unnecessary regulation and offers much-needed relief to the deep economic pain still being experienced by American workers and families." Key provisions of the REINS Act include the following: • Requires agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval. • Guarantees no major regulation becomes effective until Congress approves it. • Guarantees fast up or down votes on major rules—Congress must act within 70 legislative days. • Guarantees that accountability for imposing the heaviest burdens on America's economy falls where it should—with the people's elected representatives in Congress.
03.31.2015	While the federal government does not have a central role in the issue, following contacts by many constituents, Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today regarding the proposed closing of Sweet Briar College. The statement urges the Board of Directors and Administrators of Sweet Briar College to act in a transparent, open manner as additional decisions are made regarding the future of the institution: “The announced closing of Sweet Briar College earlier this month was a shock to many and represents a significant loss for Central Virginia. The decision by the Board of Directors has far-reaching economic and personal impacts on students, faculty, staff, alumnae, and the community as a whole. I have spoken with many working closely on this issue and have urged them to be committed to transparency and consider every feasible option available for the school, including efforts to preserve it as an important institution of higher education. As the representative for Amherst County and the individuals who are employed by and attend this historic institution, it is my hope that every effort will be made to continue to fulfill Sweet Briar’s mission. The best way to ensure that is through transparency, openness, and integrity on the part of those handling decisions about the college’s future.”
03.31.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement after receiving the National Association of Manufacturers’ (NAM) Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence at an event hosted by Ball Corporation at their Verona plant today: “Manufacturers employ over 230,000 people in Virginia and are major employers in the Sixth Congressional District, “said Rep. Goodlatte. “Congress must help ensure that the United States is a nation in which manufacturing will continue to thrive in order to create jobs, grow opportunity, and ensure a healthy economy. In the 114th Congress, we are already off to a good start in advancing regulatory reform and common sense solutions for America’s manufacturers and the families who depend on these businesses for employment. I thank the National Association of Manufacturers for this honor and Ball Corporation for hosting today’s event. The Sixth District is a prime candidate for many new manufacturing endeavors, and I will continue to promote a pro-growth, pro-jobs agenda to help make that a reality.” Congressman Goodlatte pictured with Timothy Montgomery, Verona plant manager, Ball Corporation. “As a U.S.-based manufacturer with operations in Virginia, as well as around the world, we strive for economic growth that will allow our company, employees, customers and communities to thrive,” said Timothy Montgomery, Verona plant manager, Ball Corporation. “Congratulations to Rep. Goodlatte, whose support of American manufacturing is vital to our community and our industry’s continued growth and long-term success.” “Manufacturing in Virginia and across the country is making a comeback,” said NAM President and CEO Jay Timmons. “Manufacturers are growing the economy and creating high-paying jobs in a sector that adds $1.32 to the economy for every $1 spent. Rep. Goodlatte understands that leaders in Washington must advance policies that will continue to fuel this economic growth and has consistently supported manufacturers through his votes in Congress.” The NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence honors members of Congress who demonstrate support for policies that enhance the ability of U.S. manufacturers to succeed in the global economy. Please click here for more information on the award.
03.26.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Justice Office of the Inspector General’s report regarding sexual misconduct and harassment allegations at four federal law enforcement agencies. Among its findings, the report found that several Drug Enforcement Administration agents allegedly had “sex parties” with prostitutes hired by drug cartels in Cartagena, Colombia while Colombian police officers watched their weapons and property. These actions were discovered during a series of interviews conducted by the DEA’s Office of Professional Responsibility from 2009 through 2010. Chairman Goodlatte: “Once again, some federal law enforcement agents are acting like they belong in a college frat house rather than at a taxpayer-funded law enforcement agency tasked with interdicting illegal drugs. It’s extremely troubling that federal drug agents lacked the common sense to know that engaging with prostitutes hired by drug cartels was a bad idea. Not only is this risky behavior unacceptable and unbecoming of federal law enforcement officers, it could also have compromised the agents’ mission. We must ensure that everyone involved is appropriately held accountable for their actions. “The House Judiciary Committee will continue its aggressive oversight of the Drug Enforcement Administration, including further investigating this matter and keeping a watchful eye on the behavior of all its employees. The wild and reckless conduct exhibited by some federal law enforcement officers must stop.”
03.26.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) today introduced the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 (H.R. 1656) to reform the United States Secret Service. Over the past few years, a series of scandals and failures have rocked the Secret Service, ranging from the agents’ use of prostitutes while on official presidential travel to Colombia, to the agency’s failure to initially apprehend a fence-jumper who later was arrested deep into the White House residence, to the most recent incident where two agents allegedly drove while intoxicated into an active bomb investigation outside of the White House. The bipartisan legislation introduced today implements many of the U.S. Secret Service Protective Mission Panel’s recommendations for improvements at the agency. It strengthens the security of the President, protectees, and the White House complex; enhances Secret Service agents’ training; and improves transparency and accountability at the agency. House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) is also an original cosponsor. Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the following statement on the introduction of this bill. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Secret Service is comprised of many outstanding, and upstanding, men and women who do excellent work every day. However, after a series of embarrassing security failures and instances of poor judgement, the American people have lost confidence in the Secret Service’s ability to protect the President from threats from outside entities and from within the agency itself. The Secret Service needs to ensure its agents are properly trained so that they can successfully identify and prevent threats from materializing, and also needs to crack down on the wild and reckless behavior exhibited by some agents. While Director Clancy has taken many steps to begin to reform the Secret Service, it’s clear that legislative action is needed. “The Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015 provides much needed resources to the Secret Service that enhance agents’ training, strengthen security at the White House, and improve transparency and accountability at the agency. This legislation also requires Senate confirmation of the Director of the Secret Service. It defies logic that the person we entrust to not just protect the President, but to also head a $1.5 billion federal law enforcement agency, is not subject to the same process of advice and consent as his counterparts at other comparable agencies. Collectively, these resources and changes will help reform the Secret Service and restore it as a sterling law enforcement agency.” Key Components of the Secret Service Improvements Act of 2015: Strengthens Security • Clarifies that it is a federal crime to knowingly cause, with the intent to impede or disrupt the orderly conduct of Government business or official functions, any object to enter restricted buildings or grounds, including the White House and the Vice President’s residence. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate the use of additional weaponry, including non-lethal weapons. • Amends current law to permit the Secret Service to investigate threats against former Vice Presidents. • Requires the Secret Service to devise and implement procedures for evaluating threats to the White House and its protectees, including threats from drones and explosives, and to report to Congress its findings. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate its technology at the White House, including ways that technology can be used to improve safety at the White House. • Requires the Secret Service to evaluate how it retains evidence and to report its findings to Congress. Enhances Agents’ Training and Increases Manpower • Directs the Secret Service to increase the number of hours spent training, and directs them to provide joint training between Uniformed Division officers and Special Agents. • Authorizes the hiring of no fewer than 200 additional Uniformed Division officers and 80 additional special agents. Improves Transparency and Accountability • Requires the Director of the U.S. Secret Service to be Senate confirmed. • Contains a Sense of Congress that determinations by the Department of Homeland Security or the Secret Service regarding changes to the White House itself for protection reasons should be given significant deference with the many entities that have a role in approving such changes, including the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts.
03.25.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement on today’s budget votes in the U.S. House of Representatives: “An opportunity economy starts with a budget that leads to balance. Today, I voted in support of a budget plan that will help build a stronger America by balancing the budget, making real efforts to reduce the deficit, and repealing Obamacare. Unlike the President’s budget, which would never balance, this budget leads to balance and holds the federal government accountable to the taxpayers. It also embraces the policies I have put forth on tax reform and encourages passage of a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution. “As I have done in the past, I also cast my vote for the tightest, most fiscally responsible budget offered. The Republican Study Committee’s budget alternative would balance in just six years. This budget included references to several bills I have introduced, including: the Tax Code Termination Act (H.R. 27) and a recommendation that the House enact this legislation as part of pro-growth, pro-taxpayer reforms to the tax code; the RFS Elimination Act (H.R. 703) to repeal the ethanol mandate; and, H. Res. 26 expressing opposition to the Obama Administration’s college ratings system. Unfortunately, this budget alternative did not pass. “There is no doubt that Congress must act to rein in federal spending. Without a budget that balances, there is no end to the spending that will saddle future generations with perpetual debt. Addressing the serious challenges faced by our nation demands bold proposals, and I would encourage the House and Senate to work together to get spending under control now. The budget blueprint passed today is just a step forward in ensuring a healthy American economy that encourages job creation now and for generations to come.”
03.24.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 15-11 the Responsibly And Professionally Invigorating Development (RAPID) Act of 2015 (H.R. 348). This bill, sponsored by Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), streamlines the approval process for federally-funded and federally-permitted infrastructure, energy and other construction projects and delivers faster approvals. The RAPID Act recognizes that delay and uncertainty in the process for new construction and infrastructure projects, undermines job creation, and economic growth for hardworking Americans. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “Our country’s burdensome and time-consuming regulatory process only adds to the American people’s frustration with the federal government. Bureaucratic red tape slows the permit approval process for infrastructure investment, and continues to be a barrier for many Americans who look to these jobs for stable employment. “The RAPID Act would bring accountability and expediency to the permit approval process by setting hard deadlines, instituting oversight on those who control the process, and cracking down on costly and time-consuming lawsuits. “This legislation will be an open door for the American people who are looking for work in challenging economic times. The RAPID Act is a concrete mechanism that would act as a job creator for Americans across the country, to the effect of 1.9 million jobs annually during construction of the projects, and hundreds of thousands of jobs every year following the completion of the projects.”
03.24.2015	The House Judiciary Committee approved the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act of 2015 (H.R. 1155) by a vote of 17-12. Congressman Jason Smith (R-Mo.) is the chief sponsor of the bill. The bill seeks to establish a blue-ribbon review committee to provide Congress with recommendations for the elimination of obsolete or unnecessary regulations that are costly to the American people. The goal of the SCRUB Act is to achieve a fifteen percent reduction in the overall cost of current federal regulation, with minimal reduction in federal regulatory effectiveness. According to a recent estimate, the federal regulatory burden has reached $1.86 trillion, which adds up to approximately $15,000 annually per U.S. household. The same study concluded that Americans worked an estimated 77 days per year to cover the cost of federal regulations that are a burden on families and businesses large and small. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “The regulatory burdens being imposed by the federal government are constantly being passed along to the American people. The SCRUB Act is a solution to eliminate regulation that has done its job and no longer serves a legitimate purpose. It is my hope that reform of the regulatory system of the United States will reduce the amount of money that every taxpayer must sacrifice over to the federal government every year, and that employers can hire additional workers and expand operations, rather than be forced to comply with outdated regulations that should not even still be on the books.”
03.24.2015	Today, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act (H.R. 889) by a voice vote. Through a change in the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, this legislation bolsters the ability of U.S. museums and schools to borrow foreign government-owned artifacts and artwork from other cultures around the world. The legislation would encourage governments to loan many of their most treasured pieces of art and artifacts for public viewing in the United States. This goodwill partnership between nations of the world would allow for U.S. institutions to feature major pieces from around the world, while assuring foreign governments that their loans would not subject them to litigation in U.S. courts. A bIpartisan group of lawmakers passed similar legislation during the previous two Congresses, but the United States Senate did not take up the bill prior to the end of those Congresses. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), bill sponsor Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and co-sponsors House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) and Congressman and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) praised the continued bipartisan support for the legislation, and the committee’s approval of the bill once again: “Federal courts have interpreted statutes to deny some of America’s top museums and universities the prospect of borrowing some of the greatest artifacts in history from foreign governments. The House Judiciary Committee has once again shown that there is bipartisan consensus around removing the barriers that could deny these pieces of art to some of the greatest institutions in the United States. Actions taken today by the Committee reaffirm our country’s strong commitment to cultural exchange and appreciation for the arts, while also recognizing the importance of ensuring that victims of Nazi art theft still have the opportunity to pursue justice." Background: Currently, court decisions interpreting the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) discourage foreign governments from lending government-owned artwork and objects of cultural significance to U.S. museums and schools for temporary exhibit or display. Foreign governments are discouraged by the possibility of litigation in U.S. courts from which they would otherwise be immune. As a result, the ability of U.S. museums and schools to borrow works of art and objects of cultural significance owned by foreign governments has been seriously curtailed in recent years. The Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act fixes this problem by making a narrowly-tailored change to FSIA. This change will make it easier for U.S. museums and educational institutions to borrow works of art and other objects from abroad, increasing Americans’ opportunities for cultural and educational development. This bill also contains an exception for cultural property taken during the Nazi era.
03.24.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued the following statement on the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General’s report, which found that Deputy Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas allegedly exerted improper influence in the processing and approval of EB-5 immigration program benefits. The EB-5 program gives residency preference to aliens who agree to invest in the United States and create jobs for American workers. Chairman Goodlatte: “It’s extremely troubling that one of the top leaders at the Department of Homeland Security seems to have used his power to show favoritism to wealthy and politically-connected individuals. Our government is supposed to work for all of the American people, not just a select few. Such an abuse of authority is inexcusable and creates a crisis of confidence in Deputy Director Mayorkas’ ability to lead the Department impartially. President Obama should take the appropriate steps to hold him accountable for his actions. The House Judiciary Committee, which oversees our nation’s immigration system, will continue its aggressive oversight of the Department of Homeland Security, including further investigating this matter and keeping a watchful eye on all of its employees to ensure they do not abuse their authority.”
03.20.2015	Following the announcement of the resignation of Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement: “Nearly four years ago, Director Jones was tasked to lead an embattled agency marred by controversy over the Fast and Furious gun trafficking operation. Under his leadership, many of those responsible for Fast and Furious never faced any consequences for their actions. We may never know the full scope of the fallout because of the administration’s questionable claim of executive privilege relating to Fast and Furious documents. Jones was also the director when ATF conducted a series of disastrous store front sting operations where individuals with mental impairment were possibly exploited by ATF agents among other questionable tactics. “Unfortunately, Director Jones’s exit comes after yet another controversy involving plans to ban one of the most popular ammunition rounds for sportsmen. While the plan to ban the ammunition was scrapped due in part to a letter I led and signed by 239 bipartisan members of Congress, it is clear the ATF needs a change in leadership to repair its tarnished image.”
03.19.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson expressing outrage over rampant fraud in the Special Immigrant Juvenile (SIJ) program. A recent investigative report, conducted by News 4 in New York, uncovered an orchestrated scam where people – up to twenty years of age – are fraudulently claiming that their parents abandoned, abused, or neglected them in order to be placed on a fast-track to a green card. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte demands the Department of Homeland Security provide answers about the steps they will take to rid the Special Immigrant Juvenile program of this kind of fraud and abuse. Below is the text of the letter. The signed letter can be found here. Dear Secretary Johnson, I write regarding the Special Immigrant Juvenile (SIJ) program. As you know, this program was created in order to offer protection to foreign national children who have been abused, abandoned or neglected by their parent or parents. The investigative reporting team at the News 4 New York, NBC affiliate recently conducted an investigation into abuse of the SIJ program. The abuse detailed by the reporting team revealed an apparent conspiracy to commit fraud in order to obtain SIJs. What they found is disturbing to say the least. The March 4, 2015, investigative story can be found at the following link: http://www.nbcnewyork.com/investigations/family-court-queens-immigration-cases-human-smuggling-green-card-295050931.html. In light of your stated commitment to preventing fraud and abuse in U.S. immigration benefit programs, I request that you watch the entire video and answer the following questions: 1. What immediate steps will you take to ensure that fraudulent SIJ petitions are not approved by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) adjudicators? 2. What long term changes will you make to the adjudications process and policies to ensure that fraudulent SIJ petitions are not approved by USCIS adjudicators? 3. How exactly will you coordinate with state courts to ensure that abuse, abandonment or neglect is not found by these courts when there is evidence of fraudulent claims? 4. What, if any, statutory changes do you suggest to give you additional tools to ensure that fraudulent SIJ petitions are not approved by USCIS adjudicators? 5. In addition, I request that you immediately direct the Fraud Detection and National Security Directorate at USCIS to conduct a Benefit Fraud Assessment of the current SIJ program and to determine what steps can be taken to prevent fraud in the program. Please provide, by April 2, 2015, your substantive response addressing all of the questions and concerns raised above. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter.
03.18.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 21-12 the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act (H.R. 1153). This bill, authored by Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), strengthens asylum standards to prevent the Obama Administration’s rubberstamping of fraudulent claims, effectively ends “catch and release,” and prevents American taxpayer dollars from being used to pay for unlawful immigrants’ lawyers. Although an internal Department of Homeland Security (DHS) report shows that at least 70% of asylum cases contain proven or possible fraud, the Obama Administration has set records for approving claims. During the initial asylum screening process in which aliens have to demonstrate a “credible fear” of persecution in their home countries, federal immigration officers approved 92% and 80% of these claims in Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014, respectively. While awaiting an immigration hearing, they are released into the U.S. and receive work authorization while their case is pending. Additionally, in the first quarter of Fiscal Year 2015, roughly 60% of unaccompanied alien minors’ asylum applications have been immediately approved by asylum officers. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s lax immigration enforcement has created disorder at our southern border. There has been an explosion of asylum claims, many of which are fraudulent and baseless, as word has spread around the world that the Obama Administration virtually rubberstamps asylum applications and releases asylum seekers into the United States before their claims are proved valid. Since the Obama Administration has not effectively curbed fraud and abuse in the asylum system, this has dramatically encouraged more illegal border crossings. “Congressman Chaffetz’s bill, the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act, closes loopholes in our immigration system that enable false asylum claims and ends many of the Obama Administration’s policies that encourage illegal immigration. In doing so, the bill restores the integrity of our immigration system so that it works better for our country and those truly persecuted in their home countries.” Key Components of the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act: • Credible Fear: We must fix the very minimal standard under current law that allows an alien apprehended at the border to show a “credible fear of persecution” and then generally be released into our communities while their asylum claim goes through the very lengthy immigration court process. During Fiscal Years 2013 and 2014, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) approved 92% and 80% of credible fear claims, respectively – many of which were fraudulent and baseless. The result has been an explosion of claims as word has gotten out of the virtual rubberstamping of applications. The bill tightens the standard aliens have to meet in order to curtail fraud. • Immigration Parole Reform: The parole statute allows DHS to bring into the U.S. otherwise inadmissible aliens and release detained aliens – but only in very narrow circumstances. The Obama Administration has abused this program – going well beyond the intent of Congress – to admit entire classes of aliens and release large numbers of detained aliens. In order to end this abuse, the bill specifies the precise instances in which parole can be used. A prime benefit of this provision will be to end the “catch and release” of many aliens apprehended at the border who claim a credible fear of persecution. • HHS/DHS Information Sharing: The bill forces the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to cooperate with DHS in the removal process, such as by informing DHS as to the location of alien minors who are or have been in its custody. • No Taxpayer Funded Attorneys: The Administration wants taxpayers to foot the bill (to the tune of $50 million) for lawyers for unaccompanied alien minors (UAMs) in removal proceedings. While the Immigration and Nationality Act has long prohibited taxpayer-funded attorneys for aliens in removal proceedings, the bill makes the prohibition more explicit to forestall the Administration’s plans. • Definition of Unaccompanied Alien Minor: The bill clarifies that an alien is not considered a UAM if certain immediate relatives (in addition to parents and guardians) are available to provide for their care and assume physical custody. • Safe Third Countries: The bill grants DHS the power to remove asylum seekers to safe third countries where they would have access to a full and fair procedure for applying for asylum without the current necessity for bilateral agreements with those countries. This would allow the return of apprehended Central Americans to Mexico where they could apply for asylum. • Termination of Asylum Status: The bill requires termination of asylum status where an asylee returns to their home country from which they sought asylum, absent changed circumstances or a change in country conditions. Learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work on immigration here.
03.18.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas), and Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas) – in conjunction with the American Center for Law and Justice – today filed an amicus brief with the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in support of the federal district court’s decision to halt President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration in Texas vs. the United States. In December, 26 states – led by the State of Texas – filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, and Chairman Goodlatte, Congressman Smith, Senator Cornyn, and Senator Cruz signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court in support of the states’ lawsuit. On February 17, 2015 a federal judge temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions in order to give the lawsuit time to make its way through the judicial system. Since then, political appointees at the Justice Department have filed an appeal. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below after filing this brief in court. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration poses a clear and present danger to our Constitution and it’s imperative that the President’s actions continue to be blocked so that the states’ lawsuit can move forward in the courts. President Obama stated himself over 20 times that he does not have the authority to change our immigration laws, yet he went ahead and did it anyway. Such an unprecedented power grab undermines the separation of powers in the Constitution and imperils individual liberty. We must do all that we can to stop President Obama’s lawlessness.” Additional Background: On February 25, 2015, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration and heard from several constitutional scholars who agreed the President’s actions are unconstitutional. At the hearing, Nevada Attorney General Adam Laxalt testified; Nevada is one of the 26 states that have challenged President Obama’s unilateral actions. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte has outlined several consequences of President Obama’s unilateral actions on immigration, which can be found here.
03.18.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved legislation by a vote of 17-13 to remove the ability of the President to unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement and strengthen the security of our country and communities. The Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 1148), authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), strengthens the interior enforcement of our immigration laws by granting states and localities the authority to enforce federal immigration laws and defunds President Obama’s unilateral executive actions on immigration. Additionally, the bill makes our country safer by making it more difficult for foreign nationals who pose a national security risk to enter and remain in the U.S., improving visa security in high risk countries, and protecting American communities from dangerous criminal aliens. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “There are many issues plaguing our nation’s immigration system but the biggest problem is that our immigration laws are not enforced. While presidents of both parties have not fully enforced our immigration laws, President Obama has unilaterally gutted the interior enforcement of our laws. By refusing to enforce the laws against illegal immigration, President Obama’s immigration policies collectively undermine the integrity of our immigration system and send the message to the world that our laws can be violated with impunity. “Congressman Gowdy’s bill remedies this problem by taking the enforcement ‘on/off’ switch away from the president so that one person cannot unilaterally shut down the enforcement of our immigration laws. It also protects our country and neighborhoods from the threats posed by terrorists and dangerous criminal aliens. I thank Congressman Gowdy for his work on this crucial piece of legislation and urge the House to take it up immediately so that we stop President Obama from unilaterally gutting the enforcement of our immigration laws.” Key Components of the Michael Davis, Jr. and Danny Oliver in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act • Ends the President’s Ability to Unilaterally Shut Down Immigration Enforcement: This bill removes the ability of the President to unilaterally shut down enforcement efforts by granting states and localities specific congressional authorization to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law and includes provisions to facilitate their assistance. It also allows states and localities to enact and enforce their own immigration laws as long as they are consistent with federal law. In addition, the bill withholds specific grants from sanctuary cities that defy federal immigration enforcement efforts. • Strengthens National Security: The bill makes it more difficult for foreign terrorists and other foreign nationals who pose national security concerns to enter and remain in the United States. Of note, the bill bars foreign terrorists who threaten national security from receiving immigration benefits, such as naturalization and discretionary relief from removal. The bill also requires that no immigration benefits can be provided until all required background and security checks are completed. • Protects American Communities from Dangerous Criminal Aliens: The bill protects the American public by facilitating and expediting the removal of criminal aliens. In the instance a dangerous criminal alien cannot be removed from the U.S., the bill allows the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to detain them. It also contains provisions from a bill authored by Congressman Ted Poe that sanctions countries that fail to accept return of their nationals who are ordered removed from the U.S. Additionally, the bill keeps our streets safe by providing for mandatory detention of unlawful immigrants who have been convicted of DUIs. • Improves Visa Security: The bill improves our nation’s first line of defense, the visa issuance process. The bill expands the Visa Security Program to additional high risk posts, strengthens the integrity of the student visa program, and authorizes DHS and the State Department to revoke visas to foreign nationals if in the security interests of the U.S. • Helps ICE Officers Better Do Their Jobs: The bill assists U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) officers in carrying out their jobs of enforcing federal immigration laws by strengthening their ability to make arrests for immigration violations. The bill also allows all ICE deportation officers and agents to carry firearms. • Reviews Administration’s Abuse of Prosecutorial Discretion: The bill requires a report to Congress each year on the abuse of prosecutorial discretion by the Administration. • Defunds President Obama’s Unilateral Immigration Actions: The bill defunds President Obama’s unilateral, unconstitutional actions on immigration, whether it be appropriations funds, agency-collected fees, or anything else. Watch Congressman Gowdy explain the need for strong interior enforcement here. Learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work on immigration here.
03.17.2015	On Monday, March 16, 2015, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) released a report on the General Services Administration’s (GSA) management of courthouse projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, including the renovation of the Richard H. Poff Federal Building in Roanoke, Va. Congressman Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, originally requested this report on October 4, 2013: “The GAO report confirms that the GSA’s management of some federal courthouse projects funded by the Recovery Act was not up to snuff. We have heard stories time and again of how the GSA’s mismanagement of these projects has caused disruptions to judicial operations and services to the public. The report also cites failure in some cases to ‘actively engage with judiciary stakeholders during construction.’ This includes the closure of all public restrooms, except for one on the seventh floor of an adjoining building, at an operating courthouse in Puerto Rico. The report also highlights safety and operational concerns at the Richard H. Poff Federal Building in the Sixth District of Virginia due to upgrades to lighting and windows, which judicial tenants were not consulted about at the time. The federal judiciary’s ability to perform its essential functions – namely to effectively and efficiently administer criminal and civil justice – is compromised when the GSA fails or neglects to appropriately preform its responsibilities.” Additional Information: On November 24, 2014, the House Judiciary Committee issued a report, “A Hallmark in Taxpayer Waste: The U.S. General Services Administration’s Mismanagement of Taxpayer Funds at Roanoke’s Poff Federal Building.” In June 2014, the House Judiciary Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee held a hearing on “GSA’s Failure to Meet the Needs of the Judiciary: A Case Study of Bureaucratic Negligence and Waste.”
03.17.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after meeting with U.S. Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy and other lawmakers to discuss a recent incident where two Secret Service officers suspected of driving under the influence disrupted an active bomb investigation at the White House complex: “Today’s meeting with Director Clancy confirms what we’ve said all along: the culture at the U.S. Secret Service needs to change. Embarrassing incidents like the one that happened earlier this month need to stop. Secret Service agents are tasked with one of the greatest responsibilities in the United States and must exercise good judgement while both on and off duty. The President, his family, and the White House complex face enough threats as it is each day and we don’t need agents’ own stupidity endangering their safety as well. “At a House Judiciary Committee hearing last fall, Director Clancy pledged to make necessary improvements at the agency to rein in abuses and ensure professionalism and I intend to hold him to this promise. Additionally, it’s clear that legislative action is needed to aid the Secret Service in its effort to make improvements. I plan on introducing legislation soon to provide much needed reforms to the Secret Service that will enhance agents’ training, strengthen security at the White House complex, and improve transparency and accountability at the agency.” Background: In November 2014, the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the U.S. Secret Service, held a public oversight hearing on the United States Secret Service and then held a closed hearing to discuss law enforcement sensitive matters. Chairman Goodlatte’s statement on the latest embarrassing scandal to plague the Secret Service can be found here.
03.17.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today applauded the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Department of Labor’s (DOL) decision to continue processing H-2B applications while they finalize interim regulations for the seasonal guestworker program. The H-2B guestworker program is used by American employers to hire foreign workers for temporary and seasonal work, such as forestry, seafood processing, and other industries. On March 4, 2015, the federal district court in the Northern District of Florida in Perez v. Perez ruled that DOL lacks authority under the Immigration and Nationality Act to issue regulations in the H-2B program. Based on this decision, on March 5, 2015 DHS immediately stopped accepting and processing applications for this program, even though DHS could have attempted to use several tools to keep the program up and running. However, in recognition of the hardship imposed on American employers resulting from the court’s order, on March 16, 2015, DHS and DOL – in conjunction with the Department of Justice – filed an unopposed motion to block the court’s order until April 15, 2015 so that it can continue to process H-2B applications for a period of time before the interim final rule is issued. Chairman Goodlatte issued the statement below applauding the Department of Labor’s decision. Chairman Goodlatte: “I am pleased that officials at the Departments of Homeland Security and Labor made the commonsense decision to keep an important seasonal guestworker program up and operating while they work on a long-term solution. Many small businesses playing by the rules, including many employers in the 6th Congressional District of Virginia, rely heavily on seasonal employees with H-2B visas to support industries such as forestry and tourism. Without the ability to hire such seasonal workers for the upcoming spring and summer season, many local small businesses would have been severely impacted and some may have been unable to operate at all. The House Judiciary Committee will continue to keep a watchful eye on the Obama Administration as it plans to soon issue a final rule for this guestworker program. We must ensure that the program works efficiently and fairly for American employers and protects American workers.”
03.12.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after a press report that two Secret Service agents suspected of driving under the influence and striking a White House security barricade also disrupted an active bomb investigation and may have driven over the suspicious package itself. “The Secret Service is tasked with protecting the White House, but once again another incident makes the agency look more like it’s partying in ‘Animal House.’ Not only did the two Secret Service agents endanger their own lives and innocent civilians by potentially choosing to drink and drive, they also imperiled the entire White House complex by disrupting an active bomb investigation. Such poor judgement warrants severe consequences and also raises questions that the Secret Service has not learned the tough lessons it should have following other recent scandals. “The House Judiciary Committee has conducted aggressive oversight of the United States Secret Service and will continue to do so. Incidents like the one that happened last night are completely unacceptable and must stop. At the House Judiciary Committee’s oversight hearing last year, Director Clancy pledged to make necessary improvements at the agency to rein in abuses and ensure professionalism. I intend to hold him to this promise and work with him to ensure the President, White House personnel, and innocent civilians are protected from threats from outside entities and now from within the agency itself.” Background: In November 2014, the House Judiciary Committee held a public oversight hearing on the United States Secret Service and then closed a portion of it to the public to discuss law enforcement sensitive matters.
03.10.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below after the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) announced that it will abandon its plan to ban a widely-used bullet used for the AR-15, the most popular sporting rifle in the United States. “After much pressure from a large, bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives, I am pleased that the Obama Administration has abandoned its attack on the Second Amendment. Congress will continue to steadfastly protect the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens and it is entirely inappropriate for President Obama to stretch his regulatory authority to implement partisan policies that Congress has refused to enact. Such an abuse of power would impact many law-abiding gun owners and restrict the American people’s ability to legally and responsibly exercise their Second Amendment rights. “I and other members of the House Judiciary Committee will continue to keep a watchful eye on the Obama Administration so that we protect Americans’ constitutional rights. We cannot allow the President of the United States to infringe upon the Second Amendment rights afforded to all Americans.” Last week, Chairman Goodlatte led 239 Members of Congress in sending a letter to ATF Director B. Todd Jones expressing strong concern about the Obama Administration’s plan to ban the manufacture and importation of the second-most common ammunition used for the AR-15, the M855 or “green tip.” The letter and list of Members who signed it can be found here. Americans own more than five million AR-15s, which are the most commonly used rifles for sports shooting as well as home protection. The ammunition used for the AR-15 has been exempted under federal law for sporting purposes for over 30 years, which allows it to be lawfully manufactured, imported, and sold on the civilian market in the United States.
03.04.2015	Chairman Bob Goodlatte: “Once again, President Obama has used his pen and phone to stretch his authority to implement policies that Congress has refused to enact, this time to deprive Americans of their Second Amendment rights. We’ve seen this before with our immigration laws, drug laws, Obamacare changes, welfare laws, and now our gun laws. Folks in the Sixth District are fed up with actions like these, and now 239 bipartisan Members of Congress – a clear, sizeable majority of the House – agree that this attack on the Second Amendment is wrong and should be overturned. Under the Obama Administration’s command, the ATF is changing a longstanding exemption that will impact many law-abiding gun owners and restrict the American people’s ability to legally and responsibly exercise their Second Amendment rights. I respect the Second Amendment, and urge the Obama Administration to halt this drastic policy change.” In a bipartisan letter led by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), 239 Members of Congress express strong concern to Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) Director B. Todd Jones about the Obama Administration’s plan to ban a popular bullet used for the AR-15. Americans own more than five million AR-15s, which are the most commonly used rifles for sports shooting as well as home protection. Although the ammunition used for the AR-15 has been exempted under federal law for sporting purposes for over 30 years – which allows it to be lawfully manufactured, imported, and sold on the civilian market in the United States – the ATF recently announced a “Framework” with the intention to ban the manufacture and importation of the second-most common ammunition used for the AR-15, the M855 or “green tip.” In the letter, the Members of Congress write that the ATF’s “Framework” “establishes an unduly restrictive standard, does not comport with the letter or spirit of the law, and will interfere with Second Amendment rights by disrupting the market for ammunition that law abiding Americans use for sporting and other legitimate purposes.” They also express concern that the agency’s “Framework” was not published in the federal register, which is required when the Executive Branch creates a new rule. The letter and list of Members who signed it can be found here.
03.04.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 17-13 the Protection of Children Act (H.R. 1149), a bill to ensure that unaccompanied alien minors (UAMs) who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. Before the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program was implemented in 2012, the number of UAMs apprehended at the border was 6,560 in Fiscal Year 2011. As news traveled around the world about the Obama Administration’s immigration policies, the number of unaccompanied minors dramatically increased. In Fiscal Year 2014, the number of UAMs caught at the border surged to 68,541, which is a 945% increase since Fiscal Year 2011. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman John Carter (R-Texas), chief sponsor of the Protection of Children Act and Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee, praised today’s Committee vote to ensure minors crossing the border are protected and safely returned home. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Obama Administration’s immigration policies have given confidence to parents who are in the U.S. illegally that they can stay and have encouraged them to bring their children, who are still in Central America and beyond, to the United States unlawfully. These children, often assisted by smugglers, face many dangerous situations as they travel through Mexico and then walk miles across a hostile border environment. We need to take action to stop these children from risking their lives to come to the United States unaccompanied and unlawfully. “The Protection of Children Act makes common sense changes to our laws to ensure minors who travel to the U.S. alone are returned home safely and quickly. I thank Congressman Carter for introducing this legislation and urge the House of Representatives to act on it soon.” Key Components of the Protection of Children Act: • Repatriation of Unaccompanied Alien Minors: In 2014, an unprecedented number of UAMs were apprehended along our borders – in excess of 68,000, which is a 945% increase since 2011. The Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 created two sets of rules regarding UAMs apprehended from contiguous and non-contiguous countries. Under current law, minors from contiguous countries (such as Mexico) can be immediately returned (if they consent, have not been trafficked and don’t have a credible fear of persecution). However, minors from other countries must be placed in very lengthy removal proceedings in immigration court (during which they are usually released into the United States, often to the very parents who attempted to smuggle them into the U.S.). The bill eliminates the conflicting rules and subjects all minors to expeditious return if they have not been trafficked and don’t have a credible fear of persecution. • Agreements: The bill provides authority for the Secretary of State to negotiate agreements with foreign countries regarding UAMs, including protections for the safety of minors returned to their countries of nationality. • Hearings: The bill ensures that minors who are victims of severe forms of trafficking are afforded a hearing before an Immigration Judge within 14 days. • Information on Sponsors: The bill provides for greater transparency and safety of minors by requiring HHS to provide DHS with biographical information regarding the sponsors or family members to whom the minors are released. Currently, there is no requirement to share sponsor or family information with DHS. Without this information, there is a danger these minors will be lost in the system, or worse, be inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. The bill also mandates that DHS follow up with the sponsors with whom the minors are placed to verify the sponsors’ immigration status and issue notices for the sponsors to appear in immigration court where appropriate. • Special Immigrant Juvenile Status: Due to a mistake in current law, juveniles are able to obtain legal status if they can simply show they have been abandoned by a single parent. The bill reaffirms the original intent of the law to only provide protected status to juveniles who have lost or been abandoned by both parents. • Asylum Applications: The bill closes a commonly exploited loophole that allows minors to get two bites of the apple with regard to review of their asylum applications. Learn more about the House Judiciary Committee’s work on immigration here.
03.03.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement regarding the announced closure of Sweet Briar College in Amherst County, Virginia: “I am saddened to learn of the decision by the Board of Directors of Sweet Briar College to close this historic institution. Sweet Briar College has played an important role in Amherst County for over 100 years – providing jobs, education, and a campus reflective of the beauty of our part of the Commonwealth. While I understand the challenges the school faces today and the difficulty of this decision, it is a true loss for Central Virginia and the alumnae who have fond memories of their time there. Many women have received a quality education from this institution and in that the legacy of Sweet Briar will continue.”
03.03.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following House approval of a bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2015: “Senator Reid and Senate Democrats have defied the will of the American people by repeatedly obstructing debate on a House-passed bill that would provide critical funding for homeland security and defund the President’s unilateral actions on immigration. President Obama’s unilateral rewriting of our immigration laws poses a clear and present danger to the Constitution and must be stopped. The stakes are too high to surrender and we must stand firm to defend the Constitution. Since the bill voted on today by the House of Representatives did not stop President Obama’s lawless actions, I voted against it. “This fight is not about immigration; it’s about the Constitution and preserving the rule of law. If we don’t stop President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, future presidents will continue to expand the power of the Executive Branch and encroach upon individual liberty. We must continue to use all tools at Congress’ disposal to stop the President’s egregious abuse of authority, such as taking legal action and passing legislation. This week, the House Judiciary Committee is considering several bills that strengthen the enforcement of our immigration laws and stop President Obama’s ability to shut down immigration enforcement efforts unilaterally. One of these bills also contains a prohibition on using funds to enact President Obama’s executive actions on immigration. We must do all we can within our constitutional authority to stop President Obama’s lawlessness.” Background: In December, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court by the American Center for Law and Justice in support of the lawsuit filed by 26 states challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte led a letter signed by 170 Members of Congress to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid demanding that he stop censoring debate on the House-passed bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration. This week, the House Judiciary Committee is considering four bills to strengthen the enforcement and integrity of our immigration laws. The Michael Davis, Jr. in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act (H.R. 1148), authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), removes the President’s ability to unilaterally shut down the enforcement of immigration laws and defunds President Obama’s unconstitutional executive actions on immigration.
03.03.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte issued the following statement today regarding Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s address to a joint meeting of Congress: “Today’s message from Prime Minister Netanyahu presented a challenge to the United States. Do we stand with Israel or do we not? The threat presented by a nuclear Iran is serious for Israel, the Middle East as a whole, and the United States. Iran’s actions continue to prove that it cannot be trusted. Furthermore, the ongoing negotiations with Iran provide little confidence that a workable resolution will be reached. The President, Congress, and the American people should be highly critical of any ‘deal’ that does not truly and transparently cut-off Iran’s access to a bomb. Allowing Iran access to nuclear weapons is completely unacceptable. I agree with Prime Minister Netanyahu that the result of these negotiations is likely to be a ‘bad deal.’ Over the years, Israel has proven to be one of our greatest allies. It is clear that the U.S. must stand with Israel.”
03.03.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 20-13 the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 1147). This bill, authored by Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas) preserves jobs for legal workers by requiring U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of all future hires through the E-Verify system. The Legal Workforce Act is supported by Numbers USA, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Restaurant Association, the National Association of Homebuilders, the International Franchise Association, the National Federation of Independent Business, and the Leading Builders of America. Created in 1996 and operated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), E-Verify checks the social security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to help ensure that they are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. The program quickly confirms 99.7% of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Approximately 580,000 American employers currently use E-Verify and nearly 6 in 10 of America’s smallest businesses believe every employer should have to use E-Verify. Additionally, 71% to 85% of Americans support requiring all U.S. employers to use E-Verify. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised today’s Committee vote. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Legal Workforce Act brings our nation’s employment eligibility system into the 21st century. Rather than relying on the current paper-based I-9 system that is susceptible to fraud, this bill requires all U.S. employers to use a web-based system, E-Verify. This program takes less than two minutes to use and easily identifies whether or not a new employee is allowed to work in the United States. “Expanding E-Verify nationwide is a critical component to the interior enforcement of our immigration laws and will help maintain the integrity of our immigration system for the years ahead. In contrast to the 1986 immigration law, the Legal Workforce Act provides a tangible way to make sure our laws are enforced. Under the Legal Workforce Act, present and future administrations will no longer be able to turn off immigration enforcement efforts unilaterally. Instead, the bill ensures that where the federal government fails to act, the states can pick up the slack by empowering them to help enforce the law.” Components of the Legal Workforce Act: • Repeals I-9 System: The Legal Workforce Act repeals the current paper-based I-9 system and replaces it with a completely electronic work eligibility check, bringing the process into the 21st century. However if an employer chooses to keep using the paper-based I-9 system they may do so. • Gradual Phase-In: Phases-in mandatory E-Verify participation for new hires in six month increments beginning on the date of enactment. Within six months of enactment, businesses having more than 10,000 employees are required to use E-Verify. Within 12 months of enactment, businesses having 500 to 9,999 employees are required to use E-Verify. Eighteen months after enactment, businesses having 20 to 499 employees must use E-Verify. And 24 months after enactment, businesses having 1 to 19 employees must use E-Verify. Allows a one-time six month extension of the initial phase-in. It also provides that employees performing “agricultural labor or services” are subject to an E-Verify check within 36 months of the date of enactment. • Voluntary Use: Allows employers to use E-Verify to check the work eligibility of their current employees as long as they do so in a nondiscriminatory manner and of all employees who are in the same geographic location or in the same job category. • States as Partners: Preempts duplicative state laws mandating E-Verify use but gives states prominent roles in enforcing the law. Specifically, it retains the ability of states and localities to condition business licenses on the requirement that the employer use E-Verify in good faith under federal law. In addition, the bill allows states to enforce the federal E-Verify requirement and incentivizes them to do so by letting them keep the fines they recover from employers who violate the law. • Protects Against Identity Theft: The bill allows individuals to lock their Social Security number (SSN) so that it can’t be used by another person to get a job. It also allows parents or legal guardians to lock the SSN of their minor children. And if a SSN shows a pattern of unusual multiple use, DHS is required to lock the SSN and alert the owner that their personal information may have been compromised. • Safe Harbor: Grants employers safe harbor from prosecution if they use the E-Verify program in good faith, and through no fault of their own, receive an incorrect eligibility confirmation. • Strengthened Penalties: The bill raises penalties on employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants in violation of the requirements of the bill. The bill also creates a penalty for individuals (employees or employers) who knowingly submit false information to the E-Verify system. • Identity Authentication Pilot Programs: The bill requires DHS to conduct at least two pilot programs aimed at using technology within the E-Verify system to help further prevent identity theft in the system. In a short video, Congressman Smith explains how to use E-Verify. Learn more about E-Verify here and the House Judiciary Committee’s work on immigration here.
02.27.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and several House Republicans have unveiled four pieces of legislation to strengthen the interior enforcement of our immigration laws, remove the ability of the President to unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement, ensure jobs are preserved for legal workers, reform the United States’ asylum laws, and make sure unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous trek to the United States are safely returned home. These four bills will be marked up by the House Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, March 3 and Wednesday, March 4, 2015. Chairman Goodlatte said the following on the importance of these pieces of legislation. “There are many issues plaguing our nation’s immigration system but the biggest problem is that our immigration laws are not enforced. While presidents of both parties have not fully enforced our immigration laws, President Obama has unilaterally gutted the interior enforcement of our laws. Additionally, Obama Administration officials consistently exploit weak asylum standards to approve baseless claims. “By refusing to enforce the laws against illegal immigration, President Obama’s immigration policies collectively undermine the integrity of our immigration system and send the message to the world that our laws can be violated with impunity. The bills introduced by Representatives Gowdy, Smith, Chaffetz, and Carter end many of the Obama Administration’s disastrous polices that wreak havoc on our immigration system and strengthen the interior enforcement of our immigration laws. We must ensure enforcement of our immigration laws before we can address other broken aspects of our immigration system, such as high-skilled visa reform and addressing our broken agricultural guestworker program.” The Michael Davis, Jr. in Honor of State and Local Law Enforcement Act is authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.). This legislation ensures that the President of the United States can’t shut down immigration enforcement unilaterally by granting states and localities specific congressional authorization to assist in the enforcement of federal immigration law. It also strengthens national security and protects American communities by improving visa security, facilitating the removal of dangerous criminal aliens, and barring terrorists from entering and remaining in the United States. A summary can be found here. “For decades, Americans have been promised a secure border and an immigration system that works for all Americans,” said Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy. “Those promises have not been kept and both political parties bear responsibility for that. This legislation allows state and local governments to assist in the enforcement of our federal immigration laws. By doing so, we remove the ability of this or future Presidents – of either party – to systematically shut down portions of the law to suit their political purposes.” “If we are serious about finding a long term solution to our immigration system, we must address interior enforcement,” added Gowdy. “This bill, which is one part of the Committee’s step-by-step process to address our broken immigration system, will ensure we do not repeat the mistakes of the past and help us earn back the trust of the American public.” Science, Space, and Technology Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), the former chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, introduced the Legal Workforce Act to ensure jobs are preserved for Americans and legal workers. This bill requires all U.S. employers to use E-Verify, a web-based system that checks the Social Security numbers of newly hired employees against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records to help ensure that they are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. A summary can be found here. “The Legal Workforce Act is crucial legislation that puts legal workers first and enjoys broad support with the American public. It is also free, quick, easy-to-use and effective,” said Congressman Smith. “Almost 20 million Americans are unemployed or underemployed. Meanwhile, seven million people are working in the United States illegally. By expanding the E-Verify system, this bill will ensure that new jobs only go to legal workers,” Smith concluded. Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, is author of the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act. This bill closes loopholes in current law that encourage illegal immigration, such as weak standards for asylum claims that enable the Obama Administration’s rubberstamping of fraudulent applications and policies, and effectively ends “catch and release.” A summary can be found here. “Even before the President’s promises of amnesty went into effect, our borders were being inundated with unaccompanied children and teens responding to the incentive of a broken asylum policy,” said Congressman Chaffetz. “This incentive, combined with President Obama’s promise of executive amnesty, continues to lure ever increasing numbers of immigrants across our borders. Congress can respond decisively with resources to swiftly process asylum seekers. The Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act not only addresses the immediate concern with unaccompanied children, but closes long-exploited holes in our asylum practices. “Additional judges, attorneys, and other resources will ensure children are processed, reunited with their families, and sent home as swiftly as possible,” added Chaffetz. “Just as importantly, the bill addresses the delays that have enabled people to game the asylum system. We can expedite the removal process by reducing the multi-year waiting period and strengthening standards for those who claim ‘credible fear’ for adjudication of asylum claims.” Chairman of the Homeland Security Appropriations Subcommittee John Carter (R-Texas) introduced the Protection of Children Act to ensure unaccompanied alien minors who make the dangerous journey to the United States are safely returned home. For those who stay with a sponsor in the United States while awaiting their immigration hearing, the bill provides for greater transparency and safety of these minors to ensure they are not inadvertently delivered into the hands of criminals or abusers. A summary can be found here. “For far too long drug smugglers have continually used loopholes in our nation’s immigration law to make billions, all while preying upon the weakest in our society. The Protection of Children Act of 2015 stops this abuse and removes the loophole human traffickers have used for years,” said Congressman Carter on the introduction of this bill. “Last year, we saw the affect these loopholes have on our country and southern border when tens of thousands of juveniles marched across the border and into our cities, all at the taxpayer’s expense. The great state of Texas has felt this burden, probably more than any other state. This Administration needs to stop ignoring the obvious problem, burdening the American public and putting innocent lives at risk.”
02.26.2015	THE HILL: College ratings plan not the answer By Reps. Michael Capuano (D-Mass.) and Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) - 02/26/15 08:00 AM EST Do engineers matter more than the science teachers who fired their imaginations? Are accounting majors more valuable to our society than someone studying theology? Should a university receive less financial aid because their students choose humanitarian service instead of high paying jobs? How can these incomparables be measured – and should we try? The Obama administration raises these important questions with its Postsecondary Institution Ratings System (PIRS) for colleges and universities. In December, the Administration unveiled its proposed framework, but many questions remain. We, a Republican from Virginia and a Democrat from Massachusetts, have been skeptical of these efforts since they were first announced more than a year ago. We’ve heard concerns from many in the higher education community. Last summer, in response to these concerns, we introduced a resolution, H. Res 614, expressing support for the quality, value and diversity of our nation’s higher education institutions and strong disagreement with the Administration’s plans to implement a college ratings system. Now that the Department of Education has released its draft framework for rating post-secondary education, we are renewing efforts to build support for our resolution, introducing it in the 114th Congress as H. Res 26. The criteria that federal education officials would use to create a ratings system – “access, affordability and outcomes” – illustrate the problems they will face. All of these benchmarks are certainly important considerations, but there will be enormous and unavoidable difficulties in comparing institutions based on these criteria. Perhaps more importantly, where are the benchmarks that consider an individual’s personal determinations of value? One size certainly will not fit all. An Ivy League university cannot be compared with a small rural college on the basis of alumni income. Nor should one compare completion rates for a selective private college with a large state university that admits, and in some cases may be required to admit, many local high school graduates with widely varying levels of academic preparation. Unless the criteria are developed in a way that accurately accounts for the academic diversity of America’s colleges, the data will be misleading and ineffective. Moreover, and even more troubling, earned income should be no measure of the contributions that individuals make to society. This will easily incentivize colleges and universities to encourage students to choose majors such as pre-med or computer science over social work and education. A perfect example of how this rating could negatively impact a university can be found in President Obama himself. He chose to work as a community organizer after graduating from Columbia, a position for which he would have been modestly compensated. His lower income could have negatively impacted Columbia’s rating, if such a rating system existed in 1983. Surely we would not value anyone’s work solely based on their salary. We do not want federal policy to discourage public service. Another concerning aspect of the proposal is the linking of ratings to eligibility for financial aid. Schools with a mission to serve low-income or first-generation college students may, for reasons quite apart from the excellence of their teaching, show lower rates of completion and lower alumni earnings. These schools, however, provide crucial opportunities for many young people. If the financial aid available to them were limited by poor ratings, their essential mission would be jeopardized. Higher education would become unattainable for many underserved students. Our nation boasts a rich history of student-choice in higher education. For some individuals, a city school is preferred over a rural school, for others extracurricular offerings such as music or sports may be important. The Department of Education in its own proposed framework does not claim “at this time” to have “metrics” for those aspects of education they admit are “intangible.” If a characteristic is intangible it is by definition abstract and impossible to quantify. No one can place an arbitrary value on an individual’s experience at an institution, tie federal funding to that value, and expect to have accomplished some measure of accountability. Everyone agrees we must address issues of college affordability and student debt. We agree that taxpayer dollars should be spent responsibly and effectively. We also agree that prospective students should have data available to help them make informed decisions and provide as much objective information as possible towards that end. Federally rating our colleges and universities is not the way to do this. Such a divisive and subjective ratings system, with too many unintended consequences, will threaten the special characteristics and diversity that make our postsecondary system the best in the world today. We stand ready to work with those interested in protecting that diversity while ensuring that taxpayer dollars are wisely spent and anyone who wishes to go to college has the opportunity to do so. Goodlatte has represented Virginia’s 6th Congressional District since 1993. He is chairman of the Judiciary Committee and also sits on the Agriculture Committee. Capuano has represented congressional districts in Massachusetts’ Boston area since 1999. He sits on the Ethics; the Financial Services; and the Transportation committees.
02.26.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and members of the House Judiciary Committee today sent a letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman (FCC) Tom Wheeler expressing deep concern with the FCC’s approval of net neutrality rules that regulate Internet service providers under Title II of the Communications Act. The members signing the letter also noted that the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on the impact of the FCC’s rule change on March 17, 2015. In the letter, the members invited Chairman Wheeler to testify at the upcoming hearing and noted that legislation might be necessary to ensure antitrust laws are the preferred enforcement method against anticompetitive conduct on the Internet. In addition to Chairman Goodlatte, the letter was signed by Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Steve King (R-Iowa), Trent Franks (R-Ariz.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Jim Jordan (R-Ohio), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Mimi Walters (R-Calif.), Ken Buck (R-Colo.), John Ratcliffe (R-Texas), Dave Trott (R-Mich.), and Mike Bishop (R-Mich.). Below are excerpts from the letter. To read the entire letter, click here. “The Commission’s actions today threaten the future viability of the Internet and America’s ability to compete in the global technology marketplace. Today’s rules do not offer an enduring solution, only a partisan headline for a partisan initiative that is destined for years of litigation, generating years of debilitating uncertainty. “The assertion that these rules will ‘foster innovation and competition’ lacks factual or historical support. Witness testimony before the House Judiciary Committee on this very issue detailed the many instances in which regulation of the kind manifested by Title II and the Commission’s new rules stifled competition, including in the context of both railroad transportation and long-distance telephone networks. Indeed, it was antitrust law, not regulation, which ultimately introduced competition to the long-distance telephone market. “We are also troubled by the manner in which the ‘Open Internet’ rules were formulated. On November 10, 2014, President Obama urged the FCC to impose Title II regulations on the Internet. Shortly thereafter, you began making statements in support of a Title II approach. Certainly, the timing of your support for Title II following the President’s recommendation calls into question the degree, if not the existence, of the FCC’s independence from the White House. “We will not stand by idly as the White House, using the FCC, attempts to advance rules that imperil the future of the Internet. We plan to support and urge our colleagues to pass a Congressional Review Act resolution disapproving the “Open Internet” rules. Not only will such a resolution nullify the ‘Open Internet’ rules, the resolution will prevent the FCC from relying on Title II for any future net neutrality rules unless Congress explicitly instructs the FCC to take such action. “The Committee on the Judiciary will take every action necessary to ensure that the Internet remains a free, competitive marketplace.”
02.25.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 529, bipartisan legislation to expand 529 college savings accounts: “H.R. 529 helps improve the plans that millions of Americans depend on to help save for college. Many families know how difficult it can be to save for college and the thought of burdensome student loan debt can often be a deterrent to furthering one’s education. These 529 plans incentivize college savings and help families plan ahead for these expenses, allowing more opportunities for those who want to go to college. H.R. 529 ensures that these plans remain tax-free, and it also helps to modernize the rules governing 529s, including allowing funds to be used for computers. I was proud to cosponsor this bill and support it in the House – these are the kind of solutions we need to help grow opportunity.”
02.25.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) testified today before the House Budget Committee as a part of the Members’ Day Hearing, an opportunity for Members of the House of Representatives to testify before the Committee on their suggested policies and priorities for the Fiscal Year 2016 budget. Below is the text of Congressman Goodlatte’s testimony, as prepared, as well as video. Click here to view the video. House Committee on the Budget Members’ Day Hearing: FY 16 Budget – February 25, 2015 Testimony of Congressman Bob Goodlatte Chairman Price, Ranking Member Van Hollen, I appreciate the opportunity to testify before the Committee today. The American people have entrusted us with great responsibilities. One of those responsibilities is outlined in Article 1, Section 9 of the U.S. Constitution, which calls for a “regular Statement and Account of the Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money… [to be] published from time to time.” That is what you set out to do in this Committee. Yet, there are two problems that I, and I believe most Americans, have noticed in this regard. The first is that while we are called upon to publish a federal budget, unlike those we represent, the Congress does not often balance that budget. Despite attempts to rein in federal spending, our national debt has continued to skyrocket to well over $18 trillion dollars. It was Thomas Jefferson who warned us of the consequences of out-of-control debt when he wrote: “To preserve [the] independence [of the people,] we must not let our rulers load us with perpetual debt. We must make our election between economy and liberty, or profusion and servitude.” Experience has proven time and again that Congress cannot for any significant length of time rein in excessive government spending. The annual deficits and the resulting debt continue to grow due to political pressures and the ever-increasing expansion of government programs. In order for Congress to be able to consistently make the very tough decisions necessary to sustain fiscal responsibility over the long term, Congress must have an external pressure to force it to do so. For this reason, I have introduced balanced budget constitutional amendments every Congress since the 110th. While I appreciate this Committee’s work in the past to produce budgets that balance in the future, I believe it is time that we make an institutional reform to ensure that all Congresses, regardless of political party control, produce budgets that consistently balance. I would encourage this House Budget Committee to add report language recommending that Congress propose a balanced budget constitutional amendment to the states for ratification. The second point I’d like to raise is that of revenues. Not only do the American people expect Congress to spend their hard-earned tax dollars responsibly, they also expect that government collect those revenues fairly, simply, and in a way that does not hurt job growth. While the authority for tax reform falls under the jurisdiction of the House Ways and Means Committee, it is important that this Committee also recognize the need for fundamental tax reform so that the revenues side of our federal budget is representative of a fair, simple, tax system that does not penalize marriage or families, and instead promotes job growth, supports savings and investment, and applies a low tax rate to all Americans and provides tax relief for working Americans. I have introduced legislation in this Congress that would invite lawmakers to have this debate. The Tax Code Termination Act has twice passed the House of Representatives in the 105th and 106th Congresses, and simply puts a date-certain on the expiration of our current tax code and with a simple structure, directs Congress to establish a new tax system before that expiration. It is my hope that this Committee will include support for fundamental tax reform in the House Fiscal Year 2016 budget. I appreciate the opportunity to testify before you today and look forward to working with you to create sustainable budgetary policies that the American people support.
02.23.2015	Today Reps. Rob Wittman (VA-01), Scott Rigell (VA-02), J. Randy Forbes (VA-04), Robert Hurt (VA-05), Bob Goodlatte (VA-06), Dave Brat (VA-07), H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09), and Barbara Comstock (VA-10) joined together in sending a letter to Senators Mark Warner and Tim Kaine urging them to stop blocking debate on the House-passed Department of Homeland Security funding bill. Recently, these eight representatives were among 170 Members of the House of Representatives who sent a letter to Senator Harry Reid asking him to allow debate on this legislation. The Senate is scheduled to vote on whether to proceed with consideration of H.R. 240, the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill, at 5:30 p.m. today. Click here for a PDF copy of the signed letter. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Senator Warner and Senator Kaine: On behalf of the people of the Commonwealth of Virginia, we urge you to reconsider your votes to protect President Obama’s unlawful executive action by blocking debate on H.R. 240, the House-passed bill which would fully fund the Department of Homeland Security. We agree with Senator Warner’s assertion last September: on “a big issue like immigration the best way to get a comprehensive solution is to take this through the legislative process.” We agree with the 22 occasions in which President Obama said to take such action unilaterally would be illegal, unconstitutional and imperial. We also agree with the 170 members of the House of Representatives who signed the attached letter urging Leader Reid to allow the Senate to take immediate action on the appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security and stop the unlawful actions by the President. As representatives of a state whose rich history is intrinsically entwined with our nation’s founding, we regard the President’s recent action as an affront on our power as legislators, and, by extension, the representation promised to our constituents by our founding fathers. To that end, we believe that to filibuster a funding bill to protect such action is wrong and profoundly undemocratic. This vote transcends policy. There are times when we must reach across the aisle in defense of something greater, when party lines dissolve, disagreements fade, and what is right must triumph. The true threat is that any future President will take this precedent and choose which laws they wish to enforce and ignore the will of Congress and the American people. We have reached a moment of constitutional crisis. We implore you not to give up the power with which our constituents have entrusted us. Exercise your authority, which the President’s recent action seeks to nullify.
02.18.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on the announcement that Joseph Clancy has been selected as the Director of the U.S. Secret Service. Chairman Goodlatte: “I applaud the selection of Joseph Clancy as the next Director of the Secret Service. Mr. Clancy has an exemplary record of service as the head of the Presidential Protective Division and took over as Acting Director of the U.S. Secret Service at a critical juncture for the agency. “With the recent security failures at the White House, which occurred prior to Mr. Clancy becoming Acting Director, it is evident that the Secret Service must examine and reevaluate the policies and procedures of the entire agency. Testifying before the House Judiciary Committee last year, Mr. Clancy pledged to address the department’s past failures and work to ensure that the hardworking officers and agents of the Secret Service have all the resources and training necessary to carry out their core function of protecting the President, Vice President, and other dignitaries. “I look forward to working with Mr. Clancy in his new role.” Background: The House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the numerous functions of the Secret Service, including the protection of the President, held both public and classified hearings on the agency in November 2014. Then-Acting Director Clancy testified before the Committee at both hearings.
02.17.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below after Judge Andrew Hanen of the U.S. District Court in Brownsville, Texas temporarily blocked President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions: “President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration poses a clear and present danger to our Constitution and I am pleased that the President’s actions have been temporarily halted so that the states’ lawsuit can move forward. By acting unilaterally to rewrite our nation’s immigration laws, President Obama has disregarded the will of the American people and violated the Constitution. We cannot allow one man to nullify the law of the land with either a stroke of his pen or a phone call. “This ruling underscores the importance and urgency of Congress defunding President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration. Now that the legality of the President’s executive decrees has been questioned by both the legislative and judicial branches, Senate Democrats should stop their obstructionism and allow debate on the House-passed bill that would defund President Obama’s effective rewriting of our nation’s immigration laws. We must act now on a bipartisan basis to restore the separation of powers so that we protect individual liberty for the generations to come.” In December, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte signed an amicus brief submitted to the federal court by the American Center for Law and Justice in support of the lawsuit filed by 26 states challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration. Additionally, last week Chairman Goodlatte and 169 other Members of Congress sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid demanding that he stop censoring debate on the House-passed bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration.
02.13.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland of Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson expressing concern about the startling new changes made to the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that could place potentially hundreds of thousands of unlawful immigrants on a pathway to citizenship. In addition to extending the deferred action period and employment authorization from two years to three years, dropping the upper age requirement, and changing the continuously present requirement from June 15, 2007 to January 1, 2010, the Obama Administration announced yesterday that it will allow unlawful immigrants to apply for both deferred action and advance parole at the same time. Advance parole allows unlawful immigrants to re-enter the United States after traveling abroad. Once DACA recipients are granted advance parole and meet other criteria, they may be eligible to adjust their immigration status and be placed on a pathway to citizenship. This change comes despite the fact that President Obama has stated that DACA does not provide a pathway to citizenship. Below is the text of Chairman Goodlatte’s letter. The signed letter can be found here. Dear Secretary Johnson, I write regarding the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program and the grant of advance parole to DACA recipients. When announcing the creation of the DACA program on June 15, 2012, President Obama stated from the White House Rose Garden that, “Now, let's be clear -- this is not amnesty, this is not immunity. This is not a path to citizenship.” Unfortunately your Department seems to be acting contrary to the President’s intent in its implementation of DACA and the expanded DACA program set to begin next Wednesday, February 18, 2015. Your Department’s recent changes to this deferred action program seem to be a sneaky attempt to place potentially hundreds of thousands of unlawful immigrants on a path to citizenship. According to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), in the first two years of DACA implementation, over 6,400 DACA recipients requested advance parole. And out of the 4,566 cases decided by that time, only 566 had been denied. That is an advance parole grant rate of 88%. As you know, when an individual receives advance parole, upon return to the United States the individual can then be eligible to adjust to lawful permanent resident (LPR) status. And as you know, lawful permanent resident status is the precursor to U.S. citizenship. A simple search of the Internet reveals that immigration reform advocacy groups and immigration benefits law practices are fully aware of the path to citizenship that is afforded to DACA recipients through advance parole. As outlined on yesterday’s USCIS “Congressional Update and Teleconference” regarding the expanded DACA program, under the expanded program, DACA requestors will now be able to file applications for advance parole at the same time they file their DACA application. Such a process encourages advance parole applications and thus encourages DACA to be used as a path to U.S. citizenship. I am also troubled by the fact that, as USCIS staff noted during the teleconference in response to my Judiciary Committee staff asking how many DACA recipients given advance parole have come back into the U.S. and applied for adjustment of status, USCIS does “not have a way to track electronically” the number of DACA recipients who have received advance parole and who have subsequently applied for adjustment of immigration status. I can only hope that not having a way to track such requests is not intentional to avoid answering the very question my staff asked. I request that you immediately direct USCIS to stop accepting applications for advance parole from DACA recipients and to prohibit individuals applying for the expanded DACA program from applying for, or receiving, advance parole. In addition, I request that you immediately direct USCIS to track the following: 1. The number of DACA recipients granted advance parole who after leaving the United States and returning pursuant to that parole authority, apply for adjustment of status. 2. The number of those described above who are subsequently allowed to adjust their immigration status. 3. The basis for each approved adjustment of status of the category of aliens described above. When the President of the United States tells the American people that DACA is “not a path to citizenship,” no agency should take action in direct conflict with that statement. To do so is misleading the American people. Thank you for your attention to this matter and I appreciate in advance your prompt and substantive response to this letter.
02.13.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and 169 other House Republicans today sent a letter to Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) demanding him to stop censoring debate on a critical bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security’s operations for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund unconstitutional programs created unilaterally by President Obama. These signatures were gathered in about 24 hours. In their letter, the Republican Members of Congress note that Senate Democrats have repeatedly obstructed even debating this bill in order to protect President Obama’s unconstitutional acts and shield Senate Democrats – many of whom have publicly stated that they oppose the President’s unilateral actions – from voting on the substance of the House-passed bill. Chairman Goodlatte said the following about the Senate Democrats’ obstructionism: “Why are they so afraid to debate this bill? Senate Democrats would rather stifle free speech on the Senate floor than debate a bill they know is supported by the American people.” Below is the text of the letter to Senator Reid. The signed letter can be found here. Dear Minority Leader Reid, We write to express our strong concern that Senate Democrats are blocking debate on a critical bill that would fund the Department of Homeland Security’s operations for Fiscal Year 2015 and defund unconstitutional programs created unilaterally by President Obama. Three times, you and other members of your caucus have prevented even a debate of the House-passed Department of Homeland Security Appropriations bill. While we understand that you and many of your Democrat colleagues are opposed to the provisions in the House-passed bill that would defund President Obama’s effective rewriting of our immigration laws, you should at least support debating the merits of such an important funding bill and offer amendments to the provisions you wish to change. However, you have repeatedly obstructed even debating this bill in order to protect President Obama’s unconstitutional acts and shield Senators of your party – many of whom have publicly stated that they oppose the President’s unilateral actions – from voting on the substance of the House-passed bill. It is utterly appalling that you and other Senate Democrats believe that protecting the President’s unconstitutional actions is more important than funding a Department tasked with keeping Americans safe. By preventing the Senate from taking up the House-passed bill, you are also denying the American people a fair debate on this issue. And a fair debate is what the American people want – they fundamentally disagree with President Obama’s actions and believe that he has unlawfully acted alone. For example, a Washington Post/ABC News poll last month found that 57% of registered voters believe that President Obama’s grant of deferred action should be blocked. President Obama’s actions are tilting the scales of our government in the executive’s favor, threatening to unravel our system of checks and balances and imperiling all our liberties. The House of Representatives has acted decisively to defend the Constitution from this clear and present danger by voting to defund the president’s executive actions. For the sake of our nation, our two bodies must stand together on a bipartisan basis. But in order to do this, the Senate Democrat caucus must cease to play politics with the Constitution. You must end your filibuster of the House-passed bill and allow it to proceed to the floor for consideration. History will record our actions and how we honor the trust placed in all of us by the American people. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) Luke Messer (IN-06) Ann Wagner (MO-02) Blake Farenthold (TX-27) Tom Rice (SC-07) Kevin Yoder (KS-03) Andy Harris (MD-01) Mike Bishop (MI-08) Ken Calvert (CA-42) Scott Garrett (NJ-05) Doug Collins (GA-09) Robert Wittman (VA-01) Lamar Smith (TX-21) Mark Amodei (NV-02) Steve Chabot (OH-01) Todd Young (IN-09) J. Randy Forbes (VA-04) Renee Ellmers (NC-02) Trent Franks (AZ-08) Cresent Hardy (NV-04) Richard Nugent (FL-11) Bill Posey (FL-08) Brett Guthrie (KY-02) Greg Harper (MS-03) Earl L. "Buddy" Carter (GA-01) Thomas MacArthur (NJ-03) Jason Smith (MO-08) John Shimkus (IL-05) Blaine Luetkemeyer (MO-03) Mo Brooks (AL-05) Steve King (IA-04) Cathy McMorris Rogers (WA-05) Daniel Webster (FL-10) John Mica (FL-07) Darrell Issa (CA-49) Tim Huelskamp (KS-01) Brad Wenstrup (OH-02) Tom Emmer (MN-06) Lynn Westmoreland (GA-03) Jeff Fortenberry (NE-01) Marsha Blackburn (TN-07) Markwayne Mullin (OK-02) David Joyce (OH-14) David Young (IA-03) Fred Upton (MI-06) Tom McClintock (CA-04) Louie Gohmert (TX-01) Marlin Stuzman (IN-03) Peter King (NY-02) Joe Pitts (PA-16) Pete Sessions (TX-32) Bruce Poliquin (ME-02) Jim Jordan (OH- 04) Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-05) Dan Benishek (MI-01) H. Morgan Griffith (VA-09) Daniel Webster (FL-10) Roger Williams (TX-25) Tom Graves (GA-14) Dave Reichert (WA-08) George Holding (NC-13) Mark Meadows (NC-11) Patrick McHenry (NC-10) Don Young (AK at large) Susan Brooks (IN-05) Tom Marino (PA-10) John Ratcliffe (TX-04) Ryan Costello (PA-06) Mike Kelly (PA-03) Robert Dold (IL-10) Robert Hurt (VA-05) Barbara Comstock (VA-10) John Culberson (TX-07) John Carter (TX-31) Sam Johnson (TX-03) Kay Granger (TX-12) Ted Poe (TX-02) Bill Flores (TX-19) Richard Hudson (NC-08) Randy Neugebauer (TX-19) Brian Babin (TX-31) Randy Weber (TX-14) Candace Miller (MI-10) Pat Tiberi (OH-12) David Brat (VA-07) Robert Latta (OH-05) Vicky Hartzler (MO-04) Bill Shuster (PA-09) Keith Rothfus (PA-12) Ed Whitfield (KY-01) Tim Murphy (PA-18) Frank LoBiondo (NJ-02) Larry Bucshon (IN-08) Ander Crenshaw (FL-04) John Duncan, Jr. (TN-02) Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08) Jeff Miller (FL-01) Dennis Ross (FL-15) Joe Wilson (SC-02) Unreadable Rick Allen (GA-12) David Jolly (FL-13) Gary Palmer (AL-06) Joe Barton (TX-06) Bob Gibbs (OH-07) Michael Burgess (TX-26) Frank Guinta (NH-01) Rob Woodall (GA-07) Greg Walden (OR-02) Jeff Duncan (SC-03) Michael Conaway (TX-11) Bradley Byrne (AL-01) David Rouzer (NC-07) Todd Rokita (IN-04) Mark Walker (NC-06) Rodney Davis (IL-13) Steve Stivers (OH-15) Paul Gosar (AZ-04) Jeb Hensarling (TX-05) John Kline (MN-02) Glenn Thompson (PA-05) Steven Palazzo (MS-04) Scott Tipton (CO-03) Michael McCaul (TX-10) Charles W. Boustany, Jr. (LA-03) Kevin Brady (TX-08) Thomas Massie (KY-04) Peter Roskam (IL-06) Alex Mooney (WV-02) Tom Price (GA-06) Evan Jenkins (WV-03) Matt Salmon (AZ-05) Mimi Walters (CA-45) Stephen Knight (CA-25) Mark Sanford (SC-01) Gus Bilirakis (FL-12) Curt Clawson (FL-19) Dana Rohrabacher (CA-48) Trey Gowdy (SC-04) David Roe (TN-01) Raul Labrador (ID-01) Doug LaMalfa (CA-09) Pete Olson (TX-22) Duplication of Gus Bilirakis Rick Crawford ( (AR-01) Andy Barr (KY-06) Kevin Cramer (ND at large) Ryan Zinke (MT at large) Lou Barletta (PA-11) Jim Bridenstine (OK-01) Curt Clawson (FL-19) Ron DeSantis (FL-06) Ted Yoho (FL-03) Ken Buck (CO-04) Jody Hice (GA-10) Cynthia Lummis (WY at large) John Fleming (LA-04) Walter B. Jones (NC-03) Aaron Schock (IL-18) Charles W. Dent (PA-15) Stephen Lee Fincher (TN-08) Doug Lamborn (CO-05) Martha Roby (AL-02) Barry LouderMilk (GA-11) Robert Pittenger (NC-09) Robert Hurt (VA-05) Mike Bost (IL-12) Reid Ribble (WI-08) Paul Cook (CA-08) Sean Duffy (WI-07) Steve Womack (AR-03)
02.12.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte announced today that he will once again host the Congressional Art Competition for high school students throughout the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia: “The Congressional Art Competition is a great opportunity for students throughout the region to showcase their artistic talents in a national forum. Each year I am impressed by the skills of young artists in the Sixth Congressional District, and I look forward to reviewing this year’s submissions. It’s an honor to recognize the hard work of a student from the Sixth District by displaying their artwork in the U.S. Capitol. If you know any high school students who may be interested in participating, please pass this information along to them.” The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students who reside in the Sixth Congressional District. The winner of the Sixth District’s competition will be on display for one year in the U.S. Capitol. The deadline for submissions is 5 p.m. on Wednesday, April 22, 2015. The format for the Sixth District’s Congressional Art Competition is as follows: • Students or instructors may deliver their artwork in-person to one of Congressman Goodlatte’s Sixth District offices located in Roanoke, Lynchburg, Staunton, and Harrisonburg. • Students or instructors may also arrange for a member of Congressman Goodlatte's district staff to pick up the artwork at a designated location. • Students or instructors may take a digital photograph(s) of the artwork and send it via e-mail to Temple Moore at Temple.Moore@mail.house.gov. To review the official rules and guidelines for the 2015 Congressional Art Competition and access the student release form, please click here or visit goodlatte.house.gov.
02.05.2015	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 527, the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act of 2015, by a vote of 260-163. Small businesses employ a majority of America’s private-sector workers and provide jobs for our family members, neighbors and friends. However, it is a significant challenge for small businesses to understand and comply with poorly crafted and ever-growing regulations. Small businesses rarely have in-house legal departments or regulatory compliance experts. The Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act requires federal agencies to assess better the impacts of their regulations on small business and to look for ways to reduce unnecessary burdens and design smarter, less onerous rules. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded the House passage of the bill: Chairman Goodlatte: “Small businesses deserve a voice in Washington. Not only do small businesses drive our nation’s economy, they employ our family members, friends, neighbors, and the majority of Americans in the private sector. The passage of the Small Business Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act delivers a simple, commonsense mandate to the Executive Branch: Work together with small businesses and design smarter, less burdensome rules that account for their unique concerns. It only makes sense that those imposing regulations in Washington would be mandated to communicate better with the small business community and actively search for ways to reduce unnecessary regulatory burdens. I applaud the House passage of this legislation and urge the Senate to take action and for the President to sign this important bill into law.”
02.05.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today was joined by Representative Peter DeFazio (D-Ore.), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Science, Space and Technology Committee Chairman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Representative Zoe Logren (D-Calif.), and Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology Ranking Member Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.) in introducing a bill to address the ever increasing problem of abusive patent litigation. The bipartisan Innovation Act (H.R. 9), which is the same legislation that passed the House in 2013, builds on the reforms that were made in the America Invents Act and addresses certain abusive practices taking place in our courts. Chairman Goodlatte released the statement below on the bill’s introduction. Chairman Goodlatte: “In recent years, we have seen an exponential increase in the use of weak or poorly granted patents by patent trolls to file numerous patent infringement lawsuits against American businesses with the hope of securing a quick payday. American businesses small and large are being forced to spend valuable resources on litigation rather than on innovating and growing their businesses. “With our current patent laws being abused in ways that are threatening the survival of American innovation, the Congress must act to curb abusive patent litigation. The bipartisan Innovation Act contains commonsense reforms and makes the patent litigation process more transparent. This same legislation passed the House by an overwhelming margin last Congress. I look forward to working with the Senate Judiciary Committee to see this legislation sent to the President to be signed into law. Background on the Innovation Act: • Requires plaintiffs to disclose who the owner of a patent is before litigation, so that it is clear who the real parties behind the litigation are. This will ensure that patent trolls cannot hide behind a web of shell companies to avoid accountability for bringing frivolous litigation. • Requires plaintiffs to actually explain why they are suing a company in their court pleadings. • Requires courts to make decisions about whether a patent is valid or invalid early in the litigation process so that patent trolls cannot drag patent cases on for years based on invalid claims. This prevents invalid patents from being used to extort money from retailers and end users. • When parties bring lawsuits or claims that have no reasonable basis in law and fact, the Innovation Act requires judges to award attorneys’ fees to the victims of the frivolous lawsuit. The bill allows judges to waive the award of attorneys’ fees in special circumstances. This provision applies to both plaintiffs and defendants who file frivolous claims. • Requires the Judicial Conference to make rules to reduce the costs of discovery in patent litigation, so that patent trolls cannot use the high costs of discovery to extort money from small businesses and entrepreneurs. • Creates a voluntary process for small businesses to postpone expensive patent lawsuits while their larger sellers complete similar patent lawsuits against the same plaintiffs, to protect customers who simply bought the product off-the-shelf. • Requires PTO to provide educational resources for those facing abusive patent litigation claims. The Innovation Act previously passed the House of Representatives in the 113th Congress by an overwhelming bipartisan vote of 325-91. That legislation was supported by a wide range of groups that include stakeholders from all areas of our economy representing businesses of all kinds from every corner of our country including independent inventors and innovators.
02.04.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Tom Wheeler’s net neutrality proposal detailed to Congress today. Chairman Goodlatte: “Chairman Wheeler’s net neutrality proposal falls short of its stated goal to ‘ensure the internet remains open, now and in the future, for all Americans’ and overlooks several key facts that would prevent his rules from taking effect as promised. Instead of ensuring net neutrality protections for Americans, Wheeler overestimates the FCC’s authority to re-write our nation’s communications laws – a responsibility tasked to Congress, not the FCC – and ignores the fact that his net neutrality rules almost certainly will be stuck in courts for years over questions of their legality. Americans don’t need bulky regulations to be applied to the diverse and competitive Internet marketplace. Wheeler’s approach would squelch investment in one of the most dynamic and competitive marketplaces in history and lock net neutrality protection in the courts without reaching Americans now or anytime in the near future. I urge the FCC to instead consider using our nation’s antitrust laws to prevent discriminatory and anti-competitive conduct and punish bad actors on the Internet effective immediately.”
02.04.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today after introducing two bills to alter the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), the RFS Elimination Act (H.R. 703) and the RFS Reform Act (H.R. 704): “The ethanol mandate is a true ‘kitchen table’ issue – this unworkable policy impacts every American family trying to make financial decisions. From food costs to wear and tear on the family car or lawnmower, the RFS means added costs and less money for other purchases. It certainly impacts the cost of doing business for many, but it’s the consumers who ultimately shoulder the costs of this broken policy. This is one of the concerns I consistently hear from folks in the Sixth District whether they run a restaurant, farm for a living, or have noticed an increase in their grocery bills. The federal government’s ethanol mandate has triggered a domino effect that is hurting American consumers, energy users, livestock producers, food manufacturers, and retailers. Plus, the EPA’s continued failure to meet their deadlines to set renewable fuels requirements for both this year and last year, only create more uncertainty for those who must comply with this mandate. It’s clear that the majorly flawed RFS just isn’t working. “Today, I introduced the RFS Elimination Act to stop this boondoggle of a policy in its tracks. While I would ultimately prefer to completely repeal this mandate, growing support from lawmakers in the House and Senate, as well as a diverse coalition of organizations, signals that there is momentum this Congress to achieve real reforms of the RFS. As we continue to work towards full repeal, the RFS Reform Act is a common sense solution to help curb some of the most harmful effects of this federal mandate.” The RFS Elimination Act eliminates the RFS and makes ethanol compete in the free market. This legislation already has the support of 38 cosponsors. Additionally, Congressman Goodlatte introduced the bipartisan RFS Reform Act, which eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels. This legislation already has the support of 34 cosponsors. The RFS Reform Act is supported by a diverse group of over 50 organizations. The Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) mandates that 36 billion gallons of renewable fuels be part of our nation’s fuel supply by 2022. Almost all of this is currently being fulfilled by corn ethanol. Both the RFS Elimination Act and the RFS Reform Act will be referred to the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
02.03.2015	VIDEO: Goodlatte’s Opening Statement at Hearing on “Examining the Adequacy and Enforcement of Our Nation’s Immigration Laws” Statement of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte Hearing on “Examining the Adequacy and Enforcement of Our Nation’s Immigration Laws” Chairman Goodlatte: When President Obama announced unilateral changes to our immigration laws with a wave of his “pen and cell phone” on November 20, 2014, he indicated that he would allow millions of unlawful and criminal aliens to evade immigration enforcement. He did this with the issuance of new so-called “priorities” for the apprehension, detention, and removal of aliens. Under the Obama Administration’s new enforcement priorities, broad categories of unlawful and criminal aliens will be immune from the law. This means that these removable aliens will be able to remain in the U.S. without the consequence of deportation. To make matters worse, even the most dangerous criminals and national security threats can cease being a “priority” for removal if there are undefined “compelling and exceptional factors.” On the same date, President Obama effectively announced the end of Secure Communities. Despite the fact that the President claims he took action to prioritize immigration enforcement against criminal aliens, he is scrapping a tool that identifies criminal aliens booked in jails across the United States so that federal law enforcement officials can prioritize their removal. Secure Communities, created in 2008, is a simple and highly successful program to identify criminal aliens once arrested and jailed. It protects Americans from those who are a danger to their communities. As the Department of Homeland Security has said on numerous occasions, Secure Communities simply “uses an already-existing federal-information sharing partnership between ICE and the Federal Bureau of Investigation that helps to identify criminal aliens” so that ICE can take enforcement action. As of August 2014, the Administration indicated that over 375,000 aliens and 121,000 Level 1 convicted criminal aliens– who the Obama Administration deems the “worst of the worst” – were removed as a result of Secure Communities. Based on the Obama Administration’s new policies announced on November 20, 2014, we have learned that the average daily population (ADP) of aliens in detention facilities has declined to approximately 27,000 beds. This has occurred despite the statutory mandate in current law that ICE maintain a 34,000 ADP in detention facilities. Many factors have contributed to this decline, including the collapse of issuance and compliance with ICE detainers because of ICE’s own detainer policy issued on December 21, 2014, ICE’s failure to defend its detainer authority, ICE’s immediate implementation of its new enforcement priorities on November 20, 2014, and the demise of the Secure Communities program on this same date. Detainers are notices issued by ICE and other DHS units that ask local, State and federal law enforcement agencies not to release suspected removable aliens held at their facilities in order to give ICE an opportunity to take them into its custody. Detainers, often called “immigration holds,” are a primary tool that ICE uses to apprehend the suspects it is seeking. Irresponsible policies have led to a drop in the number of detainers issued by ICE. And given that ICE refuses to defend its detainer authority, many jurisdictions refuse to cooperate with ICE on detainers out of fear of civil liability. The results are distressing. ICE developed a methodology to track the number of detainers not honored by local law enforcement jurisdictions. From January 1, 2014 to September 30, 2014 over 10,000 detainers were not honored. Through September, the recidivism rate for these aliens was 25% in just a 9-month period. There were over 5,400 subsequent arrests and 9,300 criminal charges. The end result of these policies? The number of unlawful or criminal aliens that ICE has removed from the interior of the country has fallen by more than half since 2008. Given this administration’s failure to enforce our immigration laws, we could line Border Patrol agents shoulder to shoulder at the southern border and it would not matter. Why? Because once apprehended by the Border Patrol, many of the children, teenagers, and adults arriving at the border simply game our asylum and immigration laws that the Obama Administration has severely weakened. The Administration has done little to deal with this problem, other than ensure that these claims be heard years down the road. In the meantime, these aliens can abscond, and eventually fail to appear for their hearings. The Wall Street Journal just reported that the “Justice Department has a special date reserved for thousands of immigrants awaiting their day in court: the day after Thanksgiving in 2019.” If word got out that bogus credible fear and asylum claims were not being rubberstamped and that claimants were not rewarded with almost certain release into the U.S. along with work authorization, the vast increase in claims might quickly abate. In the end, it doesn’t matter how many aliens are apprehended along the border, if apprehension itself becomes a golden ticket into the country. Successful immigration reform must enable effective interior enforcement. This is an integral piece of the puzzle. We can’t just be fixated on securing the border, while undoubtedly an issue of paramount concern. We must focus on interior enforcement, or more precisely what to do with unlawful immigrants who make it past the border and legal immigrants who violate the terms of their visas and thus become unlawfully present in the U.S. One reason why our immigration system is broken today is because the present and past administrations have largely ignored the enforcement of our immigration laws. If we want to avoid the mistakes of the past, we cannot allow the President to continue shutting down federal immigration enforcement efforts unilaterally. In the coming weeks this Committee will hold hearings and address legislation that deals with the problem of the Administration’s failure to enforce our immigration laws. We will not only provide the Administration with the tools it needs; we will also act to ensure that the president cannot unilaterally shut down immigration enforcement in this country. Only then will immigrants seeking to enter the U.S. have an incentive to obey our nation’s immigration laws. We must ensure enforcement of our immigration laws so that we can then move on to address other broken aspects of our immigration system, such as high-skilled visa reform and addressing our broken agricultural guestworker program.
02.03.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement after voting in support of H.R. 596 to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare: “The fact of the matter is that the President’s health care law is not working to improve the affordability or availability of health care in this country. This is the message that I have consistently heard from families and businesses in the Sixth District of Virginia. Many families have lost their health care coverage, now have inferior coverage, or face outrageous premiums and deductibles. Small businesses are facing costly mandates that have in many cases discouraged hiring and reduced employee hours. As the problems continue to come to light, it’s clear that not even the strongest glue would fix the cracks in this law. The best thing Congress can do for the people we represent is to get rid of this top-down, Washington bureaucrat managed, one-size-fits-all health care program. “H.R. 596 repeals Obamacare. But it doesn’t stop there. It also instructs Committee Chairmen to craft better solutions for more effective, patient-centered health care reform. This is the fourth time the House of Representatives has voted to fully repeal Obamacare. It’s a hard thing to admit when you’re wrong, but it’s time for President Obama to acknowledge that this law was not the best prescription for Americans’ healthcare needs. Let’s work together to find appropriate remedies to address the challenges folks face in getting the coverage they both want and need.”
02.02.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement in response to the release of President Obama’s budget for Fiscal Year 2016: “They say not to judge a book by its cover. But with the release of President Obama’s budget for Fiscal Year 2016, I know that the policies contained within are largely focused on more taxes and more spending. While I appreciate that the budget was released on time, it greatly concerns me that it continues the trend of deficit spending and big government. The kicker? This plan never leads to a balanced budget – not over the next decade – not ever. While I anticipate there are many things we can work together on this year, I do not support the Administration’s continued tax-and-spend policies. We have the opportunity, and responsibility, to tackle the nation’s debt head on – to ignore that is to deny future generations the brightest outlook possible. I look forward to working with leaders in the House to pass a responsible budget plan that actually balances, ensures that taxpayer dollars are spent effectively, and sets the stage for a healthier American economy.”
01.31.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) made the statement below following the announcement from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that it will begin accepting applications for the expanded Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program on Feb. 18, 2015. “The American people have spoken loud and clear that they don’t want President Obama to change our immigration laws on his own. Unfortunately, President Obama is stubbornly forging ahead with his plan, ignoring both the constitutional limits placed on his authority and the will of the American people. Additionally, President Obama has gutted what few requirements he originally placed on deferred action applicants, opening the program up to even more fraud and abuse. “While many in Congress want to reform our nation’s immigration system, the President does not have the authority to change the law himself. President Obama’s reckless abandonment of the rule of law poses a danger to our Constitution. Congress must fight the President’s actions, including taking legal action so that we restore the separation of powers and protect individual liberty. It’s imperative that we send the strong message that these actions cannot and will not be tolerated.” Among the many changes made to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, President Obama has extended the deferred action period and employment authorization from two years to three years, dropped the upper age requirement, and changed the continuously present requirement from June 15, 2007 to January 1, 2010.
01.27.2015	The House of Representatives today approved four bills by voice vote to combat human trafficking in America. These bills were unanimously approved by the House Judiciary Committee last week. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) applauded House passage of these important bills in the statement below. Chairman Goodlatte: “The sale of children for sex sounds like something that could only happen in faraway places, but tragically it is happening right here in the United States every single day. According to the FBI, sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. Sadly, this immoral and illicit industry is also a profitable one. It’s estimated that child sex trafficking in the United States alone is a $9.8 billion industry. Together as a nation, we must send the strong message that our children are not for sale. “The House of Representatives acted today by passing legislation to hold everyone involved in these crimes accountable, whether they sell, buy, or market these children to potential buyers. These bills ensure that exploited children are treated as victims rather than as criminals and provide much-needed resources to victims of sex trafficking that will help them reclaim and rebuild their lives. I thank my colleagues, Representatives Ted Poe, Kristi Noem, Erik Paulsen, and Ann Wagner, for working on these important bills and urge the Senate to take up these bills as soon as possible. There is no more important duty than to protect our children.” Below are summaries of the four bills that passed today by voice vote that were recently approved by the House Judiciary Committee. The Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act (H.R. 350): This bill, authored by Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-S.D.), launches a review that will look into federal and state trafficking prevention activities in order to identify best practices to stop human trafficking; requires an inventory of existing federal anti-trafficking efforts to make sure all federal agencies and programs work together and that federal resources are being targeted where needed; and improves existing Department of Justice grants, ensuring that the grants also support shelters for survivors. The Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 159): This legislation, sponsored by Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.), provides incentives to states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked children as victims, rather than as criminals or delinquents. The bill also provides an avenue for victims to access job skills training so that they can begin to rebuild their lives. The Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act (H.R. 285): This bill, authored by Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), criminalizes those who knowingly advertise or profit from advertisements that offer the commercial exploitation of children and trafficking victims. The Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 181): This comprehensive anti-human trafficking bill, authored by Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas), boosts support and protection for domestic human trafficking victims by increasing and streamlining law enforcement resources, enhancing victims’ services, and strengthening our laws to ensure that both buyers and sellers engaged in sex trafficking are held accountable for their crimes. The House passed similar legislation in the 113th Congress, but the bills were not signed into law.
01.27.2015	Next Tuesday, February 3 at 11:00 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on the lack of interior enforcement of immigration laws in the United States and how it has led to a broken immigration system. The hearing, entitled “Examining the Adequacy and Enforcement of Our Nation’s Immigration Laws,” will be webcast live at http://judiciary.house.gov/. Witnesses for the hearing will be announced later this week. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on next week’s hearing. Chairman Goodlatte: “There are many issues plaguing our nation’s immigration system but the biggest problem is that our immigration laws are not enforced. While presidents of both parties have not fully enforced our immigration laws, President Obama has unilaterally gutted the interior enforcement of our laws. Additionally, Obama Administration officials consistently exploit weak asylum standards to approve baseless claims. With little – if any – consequences for illegal immigration and deception, President Obama’s immigration policies collectively undermine the integrity of our immigration system and send the message to the world that our laws can be violated with impunity. “Building on the Committee’s good work on this issue last Congress, next week the House Judiciary Committee will examine the many issues facing immigration enforcement in the interior of the United States.”
01.27.2015	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (VA-06) and Morgan Griffith (VA-09) issued the following statement today reacting to the news that Norfolk Southern Corp. will be closing its office building in Roanoke, impacting the jobs of all 500 employees working there: “Norfolk Southern came to our region more than 130 years ago with the primary purpose of moving mineral resources. We are saddened by today’s news, and are committed to fighting to do what we can in Washington to keep and grow jobs in our region. Thankfully Norfolk Southern will continue to have a large presence in the Roanoke region, with approximately 1,200 positions unaffected by today’s news.” “There wouldn't be a Roanoke City if the Norfolk and Western Railway had not chosen Big Lick as their headquarters. In fact, the citizens even offered to name their new town after the president of Norfolk and Western, Mr. Frederick Kimball. Mr. Kimball humbly declined, but there is no question that he and Norfolk and Western contributed significantly to the development of our region. While saddened by this announcement, we appreciate that Norfolk Southern will continue to have a considerable role in the Roanoke Valley.” “Norfolk Southern, a company that has boasted in the past that coal is its specialty, doesn’t cite the Obama Administration’s war on coal among its reasons for closing its Roanoke office building, but it was reported just yesterday that the company’s coal revenue fell 15 percent. Accordingly, it is our belief that the anti-coal policies of this Administration and its Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) are a factor. The Administration’s direct attack is launched at the coal industry, but the ripple effect of their policies hits those supporting the coal industry, such as Norfolk Southern Corp.”
01.26.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today announcing his nomination of several students from the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia to our nation’s service academies as members of the graduating Class of 2019: “It is my honor to nominate these young men and women to compete for an appointment to our nation’s service academies,” said Congressman Goodlatte. “The service academies provide students the opportunity to receive a quality educational experience. Upon appointment, I am confident that they will serve the United States with distinction. Folks in the Sixth District can be proud of these hardworking nominees. I wish them the best and thank them for their willingness to serve our great nation.” Sixth District Nominations for the Class of 2019 U.S. Air Force Academy William P. Reeves, son of Ben and Beth Reeves, is a senior at New Covenant Schools and a resident of Lynchburg. He has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Jessica L. Rodriguez, daughter of Ronnie Rodriguez and Stephanie Hammack, is a senior at Central High School and a resident of Toms Brook. She has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. Thomas B. Weidner V, son of Thomas and Cynthia Weidner, is a senior at Wilson Memorial High School and a resident of Waynesboro. He has been nominated to the United States Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs. U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Timothy L. Grow, son of York and Kati Grow, is a senior at Grace Christian School and a resident of Fairfield. He has been nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. Galen P. Rohr, son of Victor and Maureen Rohr, is a senior at Chelsea Academy and a resident of Fort Valley. He has been nominated to the United States Merchant Marine Academy. U.S. Military Academy at West Point Diego D. Ballester, son of Rosa Francisca Ballester Fornes, is a senior at Fishburne Military Academy and a resident of Waynesboro. He has been nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Ryen C. Beach, son of Michael and Heather Frost, is a senior at Roanoke Catholic School and a resident of Lexington. He has been nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. John M. Colliton, son of Gavin and Patricia Colliton, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. He has been nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Richard B. Cordle, son of Richard and Michelle Cordle, is a senior in high school and is home educated. He resides in Roanoke. He has been nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Lauren A. Pile, daughter of Christopher and Patricia Pile, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. She has been nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. Thai C. Wright, son of David and Leasa Wright, is a senior at Wilson Memorial High School and a resident of Fishersville. He has been nominated to the United States Military Academy at West Point. U.S. Naval Academy Austin T. Bell, son of Ken and Pam Bell, is a senior at Harrisonburg High School and a resident of Harrisonburg. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Anne K. Burns, daughter of Jennifer Buelter, is a senior at Westtown School and a resident of Front Royal. She has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Kye L. Coolbaugh, son of Kevin and Shari Coolbaugh, is a senior at Hidden Valley High School and a resident of Roanoke. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. William H. Crossman, son of Matthew and Kathryn Crossman, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Hunter R. Dean, son of Troy and Tara Dean, is a senior at Strasburg High School and a resident of Lebanon Church. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Ixel S. Ochoa, daughter of Edgar Ochoa, is a senior at Randolph-Macon Academy and a resident of Front Royal. She has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Clayton D. Penney, son of Doug and Carol Penney, is a senior at Rockbridge County High School and a resident of Lexington. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Jesse A. Pierce, son of Jon and Alison Pierce, is a senior at Broadway High School and a resident of Harrisonburg. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Daniel C. Vincent, son of John and Donna Vincent, is a senior at E.C. Glass High School and a resident of Lynchburg. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. Scott P. Wise, son of Gary and Rhonda Wise, is a senior at Harrisonburg High School and a resident of Harrisonburg. He has been nominated to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.
01.22.2015	Today, U.S. Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary, and U.S. Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, released the following joint statement on legislative efforts to improve border security and interior enforcement: “For decades, Americans have been promised that our borders will be secured and our immigration laws will be enforced. But these promises have not been kept: our border remains porous and our immigration laws have not been fully enforced by presidents of both parties. “House Republicans are taking a step-by-step approach to deliver on these long-overdue promises made to the American people so that we gain operational control of our borders and guarantee that our immigration laws will be enforced moving forward. The Secure Our Border First Act is the first step and will move our nation closer to gaining control of our borders so that we thwart national security threats and stop illegal border crossers from coming to the U.S. “As chairmen of the House Homeland Security and Judiciary Committees, we join our colleagues to secure our borders and ensure our immigration laws are not unilaterally ignored by President Obama and future presidents. We will continue working on these issues and the Judiciary Committee will work on legislation to deliver results on interior enforcement, such as mandatory electronic verification of employment eligibility, addressing fraud in the asylum system, and allowing state and local law enforcement to help in enforcing our laws.”
01.22.2015	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, by a vote of 242-179 on the 42nd anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision that legalized abortion in the United States. Similar legislation passed in the House of Representatives last Congress. For over 35 years, a patchwork of policies has regulated federal funding for abortion. Amendments have been added to various appropriations bills to prohibit the federal funding of abortions through the programs funded by those appropriations bills. This legislation permanently frees taxpayers from subsidizing abortion or insurance coverage that includes abortion. This legislation makes permanent the following three amendments: The Hyde Amendment, which prohibits funding for elective abortion coverage through any program funded in the annual Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, The Smith FEHBP Amendment, which prohibits funding for health plans that include elective abortion coverage for federal employees, and The Dornan Amendment, which prohibits use of congressionally appropriated funds for abortions in the District of Columbia. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the House passage of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act: “Today on the ominous anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision, the House passage of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act signifies our nation’s renewed commitment to protect life and encourage a society that supports life at all stages. The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act codifies the most bipartisan, longstanding pro-life proposal, the Hyde Amendment, and frees taxpayers from subsidizing the egregious practice of abortion or insurance coverage that includes abortion. “As a country, we must speak for those who cannot speak for themselves and allow them the fundamental human right to be born into this world. The passage of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act is just one step towards the protection of life that I enthusiastically support.” NOTE: Earlier today, Chairman Goodlatte greeted a group from the Sixth District participating in the March for Life in Washington. The group was led by Dean Welty, Director of the Valley Family Forum. Click here for photos.
01.21.2015	The House Judiciary Committee today unanimously approved four bills to combat the growing problem of human trafficking in the United States. The Committee first approved by voice vote the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 181), a comprehensive anti-human trafficking bill authored by Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). This bill boosts support and protection for domestic human trafficking victims by increasing and streamlining law enforcement resources, enhancing victims’ services, and strengthening our laws to ensure that both buyers and sellers engaged in sex trafficking are held accountable for their crimes. The Committee then passed the Human Trafficking Prevention, Intervention, and Recovery Act (H.R. 350) authored by Congresswoman Kristi Noem (R-S.D.) by voice vote. This bill launches a review that will look into federal and state trafficking prevention activities in order to identify best practices to stop human trafficking; requires an inventory of existing federal anti-trafficking efforts to make sure all federal agencies and programs work together and that federal resources are being targeted where needed; and improves existing Department of Justice grants, ensuring that the grants also support shelters for survivors. The Committee also approved by voice vote the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 159), sponsored by Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.). This bill provides incentives to states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked children as victims, rather than as criminals or delinquents. The bill also provides an avenue for victims to access job skills training so that they can begin to rebuild their lives. Finally, the Committee approved by voice vote the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act (H.R. 285), authored by Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), to criminalize those who knowingly advertise or profit from advertisements that offer the commercial exploitation of children and trafficking victims. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) stated the following on the Committee’s approval of these four bills: “Sex traffickers and their buyers dehumanize their victims, treating them not as human beings created in the image of God, but instead as objects to be used for their own profit or pleasure. While we have strengthened our laws to combat human trafficking, we still have work to do to put an end to these heinous crimes. I am pleased that the House Judiciary Committee today approved several crucial pieces of legislation that hold everyone involved in these crimes accountable, whether they sell, buy, or market these children to potential buyers. These bills also ensure that exploited children are treated as victims rather than as criminals and provide much-needed resources to victims of sex trafficking that will help them reclaim and rebuild their lives. I thank my colleagues, Representatives Ted Poe, Kristi Noem, Erik Paulsen, and Ann Wagner, for working on these important bills and look forward to the House acting on these bills soon.” Background: According to the FBI, sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. One organization estimates that child sex trafficking in the U.S. is a $9.8 billion industry. As many as 300,000 American youth are at risk of becoming a victim of sex trafficking. While the investigation and prosecution of human trafficking has often been carried out by state and local law enforcement, the enactment of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (TVPA) in 2000 made child sex trafficking in interstate commerce a federal crime. The TVPA is the primary legislative vehicle authorizing services to victims of trafficking and was most recently reauthorized in 2013.
01.20.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement in response to tonight’s State of the Union address: “Here we go again. Tonight’s speech was more of the same – chock full of policies that would result in more regulations, further intrusion into the lives of the American people, and a tax plan that unfairly burdens the middle class by taxing college savings accounts. This was the agenda the American people soundly rejected in November, and pushing these failed policies once again is not the solution. “Tonight’s speech makes it crystal clear how out of touch the President is with the needs of American families. To take a successful college savings program, one used by millions of middle-class Americans to save for their children, and find new ways to tax it out of existence speaks volumes as to the President’s priorities. The bottom line is that Americans are insecure about their own futures. Taxes on college savings only makes the problem worse and hurts everyone hoping to further their education and advance their career. “The good news is that in just the first two weeks of the 114th Congress, the House has already passed legislation to create job opportunities, lessen the regulatory burden, and help pave the path towards a healthy economy. These are real American solutions – not new ways to grow the size of government at the expense of personal liberty and financial freedom. “His remarks and new policy ideas tonight make it clear that President Obama’s agenda is out of touch with reality. The House has acted, and will continue to act, on policies that help middle-class Americans advance their hopes and dreams. Where we can find areas of common interest that help our constituents, I am ready to work with President Obama, but his pattern of overreach and tax hikes is not the way forward.”
01.20.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statements below on several issues following President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address. Economy: “Politics and excuses have blocked real progress for Americans in need of jobs. Despite promise after promise from the President, our nation’s economy remains relatively unchanged – it has failed to grow strong enough to bounce back after economic setbacks or provide sustainable growth for Americans. And instead of solving the problem of a failing economy, the President continues to push his failed policies in the faces of the American people and lay blame on others for his actions. In stark contrast to the President’s approach, in the House Judiciary Committee we have already started passing bills this Congress to jumpstart the economy and cut government red tape. We look forward to continuing to pass powerful regulatory reform this Congress and providing real relief for Americans.” Cybersecurity: “Cybersecurity is critical both to Americans’ privacy and our national security. Every day, cyber-criminals attempt to hack into computer networks in order to steal sensitive personal and financial information from American companies and our citizens. Additionally, we’ve now experienced a state-sponsored cyberattack intended to intimidate the American people and undermine our values. We need to be ever diligent and attentive to these threats. The House Judiciary Committee will continue working to ensure our laws are as robust as possible and work with other Committees on this important issue.” Immigration Reform: “The debate last Congress showed that there is a willingness and a need to reform our nation’s immigration laws. Many of my colleagues and I are working to fix our broken immigration system, starting with enforcement first. However, President Obama’s pattern of executive overreach has added a layer of distrust to the debate. Time after time, President Obama has bypassed many opportunities to work constructively with Congress and has instead legislated from the Oval Office by executive decree. These actions are a threat to the separation of powers enshrined in the Constitution and imperil individual liberty. Additionally, they have undermined the American people’s trust in the President’s willingness to enforce the laws passed by Congress. If the President is serious about immigration reform, then he needs to start enforcing our existing laws to rebuild trust with the American people and with Congress. Meanwhile Congress must pass enforcement laws that take the power away from the President to unilaterally refuse to enforce our immigration laws.” FISA Reform: “I agree with the President that we need to reform the bulk collection program under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act so that we protect Americans’ civil liberties while ensuring that the traditional capabilities of our intelligence-gathering programs are not disturbed, and I am committed to working on this issue. Last Congress, the House passed comprehensive legislation to do just that, but the Senate failed to act. The USA PATRIOT Act is set to expire on June 1, 2015 and it is imperative that we reform these programs before then.” Net Neutrality: “While I agree with President Obama’s call for a free and open Internet, the reality is that the President’s policies will have the opposite effect, significantly diminishing innovation on the Internet. President Obama’s so-called ‘solution’ for net neutrality is to impose decades-old regulations designed for old, monopolistic long-distance telephone lines on one of the most dynamic and competitive marketplaces in history. As confirmed by experts at our Judiciary Committee hearing last Congress, this type of regulatory approach would have disastrous results on the Internet. Instead of jumpstarting the economy and ensuring fair principles to safeguard consumers, the President’s approach would leave consumers with fewer choices and higher prices, the antithesis of net neutrality. A better way to ensure net neutrality is to turn to vigorous enforcement of our nation’s time-tested antitrust laws. These laws have consistently demonstrated their ability to prevent discriminatory and anti-competitive conduct and would be the most efficient way to achieve an open and competitive Internet.” Abusive Patent Litigation: “I am disappointed the President failed to mention the importance of passing legislation to stop abusive patent litigation. Last Congress, the House overwhelmingly passed the Innovation Act, a bipartisan bill that takes meaningful steps to address the abusive practices that have damaged our patent system and resulted in significant economic harm to our nation. Businesses both large and small are affected by this growing problem and the enactment of the Innovation Act is central to U.S. competiveness, job creation, and our nation’s future economic security. Unfortunately, the Democratic-controlled Senate failed to act on the legislation but I am hopeful that with the new Republican-controlled Senate and the President’s support patent litigation reform legislation will be signed into law this Congress.
01.16.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on Religious Freedom Day: Chairman Goodlatte: “The United States has long stood for religious freedom in America and around the world. The principle of religious freedom is founded on the idea that all people deserve the freedom to live and work according to their religious beliefs without fear of persecution or discrimination. The First Amendment of the Constitution states that ‘Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.’ With these constitutional protections and with additional protections passed by Congress, the United States continues to serve as a global refuge for all. “However, despite our nation’s legacy of protecting religious freedom, we still face challenges to religious liberty in the United States. As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I am committed to conducting oversight of religious freedom infringements in the United States and upholding Americans’ free exercise protections enshrined in the First Amendment. Religious freedom is a fundamental human right essential to a free society and to who we are as Americans. This Congress, I intend to continue fighting to protect this right.”
01.15.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below on the Department of Justice’s revised guidelines regarding obtaining information from, or records of, members of the media: “I applaud the Justice Department for strengthening its guidelines to better protect journalists and the freedom of the press. Following Attorney General Holder’s misleading testimony before the House Judiciary Committee regarding the prosecution of members of the media, the Committee launched an investigation into his testimony and the Department’s pattern of aggressively pursuing national security leak cases involving journalists. As a result of its investigation, the Committee issued a report that found that the Justice Department needed to update its guidelines governing how it obtains information from the press in order to deter any unnecessary chilling effect on First Amendment activity. The new guidelines will help protect our cherished freedoms and begin the process of restoring trust with members of the media, the American people, and Congress.” In July 2013, the House Judiciary Committee released a report on its investigation into the discrepancies between Attorney General Eric Holder’s sworn congressional testimony and his decision to obtain a search warrant for the emails of James Rosen, the chief Washington correspondent for Fox News, which stated Rosen was at the very least an “aider, abettor, and/or co-conspirator” of the person who allegedly leaked classified information. Among the report’s findings, the Committee found that the Justice Department needed to strengthen its regulations governing the collection of evidence from, or the investigation of, journalists.
01.14.2015	The House of Representatives today passed the Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill (H.R. 240) by a vote of 236-191. The House-passed bill includes several amendments that will cut off all funding for President Obama’s unconstitutional actions on immigration, whether it be appropriations funds, agency-collected fees, or anything else. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) praised the passage of this legislation in the statement below: “The House today stood by our Constitution and sent the strong message that President Obama’s unilateral, unconstitutional actions on immigration cannot and will not be tolerated. While there are varying opinions about how to reform our nation’s immigration laws, the President does not have the authority to rewrite them on his own. If we don’t stop President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, future presidents will continue to expand the power of the Executive Branch and encroach upon individual liberty. “Our fight against the President’s actions is not yet over. In the coming days and weeks, we will work with our allies in the Senate to get a bill to the President’s desk. We cannot let one man nullify the law of the land with the stroke of his pen.”
01.13.2015	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Michael Capuano (D-Mass) released the following statements upon introducing H. Res. 26, a resolution opposing the President’s proposal to create a college ratings system: Congressman Goodlatte: “Colleges and universities are now just a few months away from the implementation of the Administration’s college ratings plan. However, no one is really sure what this plan will entail. The ‘draft framework’ of the proposed college ratings plan released last month has virtually no new information to share with us and lacks specifics. Though concerns were raised by many, including 50 presidents of Virginia’s public and private colleges and universities, the Department of Education insisted upon moving forward and made little headway in shedding more light on what colleges and universities can expect. H. Res. 26 strongly supports the quality and value of diversity in our higher education system and makes clear that the Administration’s proposed college ratings system is not feasible, and if attempted, would decrease choice, diversity, and innovation. It is not the place of the federal government, through a ratings system, to attempt to measure the value of an individual’s education. I urge my colleagues in the House to join us in voicing opposition to the Administration’s misguided ratings system.” Congressman Capuano: “While I appreciate the President’s commitment to making higher education more accessible and affordable, establishing a system to rate schools using imperfect criteria that cannot be accurately measured or equally applied is not the answer. I am especially concerned about using this ratings system to determine financial aid, which could unfairly burden students and further reduce their access to higher education.” Background: Congressmen Goodlatte and Capuano introduced a similar resolution, H. Res. 614, in the 113th Congress. In August 2013, the Department of Education announced they would develop a Postsecondary Institution Ratings System (PIRS), or college ratings system, as part of the Obama Administration’s “Plan to Make College More Affordable.” On December 19, 2014, the Department of Education released a draft framework. The system is set to be enacted prior to the start of the 2015 school year. This ratings system, as proposed, would potentially tie financial aid to an institution’s rating. Together, Congressmen Goodlatte and Capuano represent more than 50 colleges and universities.
01.13.2015	Today the House of Representatives passed H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act (RAA), by a vote of 250-175. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced the legislation. The RAA is a strong, bipartisan solution to the problem of overreaching, ill-considered, and excessively costly federal regulation. The bill requires the Executive Branch to execute the laws passed by Congress in the least costly way, and with better public input, to find the most efficient regulatory solutions that benefit all Americans. The price tag of regulatory overreach is significant for American families. Today, Americans face a burden of over $3 trillion from federal taxation and regulation. That burden adds up to $15,000 per household, nearly 30 percent of average household income in 2013. This legislation would help reduce that burden by requiring the government bureaucracy to find more cost-effective ways to implement laws passed by Congress, reducing red tape and lowering the costs for American families. Chairman Goodlatte praised the House passage of the RAA: “The effects of excessive government regulation are real for the American people. The regulatory burden for each American household adds up to $15,000 – funds that could instead be used on housing, education, or groceries. Every month, hardworking Americans witness the government digging deeper and deeper into their pocketbooks with the results being lower wages, fewer jobs, and a less competitive America. “The bill passed by the House of Representatives reforms the Executive Branch and the problem of overreaching federal regulation. I applaud the House for passing this real and permanent regulatory reform for the American people.”
01.10.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, worked with several members of Congress to draft five amendments that will be offered to the Fiscal Year 2015 Homeland Security Appropriations bill (H.R. 240) next week. These amendments, among other things, will cut off all funding for President Obama’s unconstitutional actions on immigration, whether it be appropriations funds, agency-collected fees, or anything else. Congressman Goodlatte issued the statement below on these amendments: “Last month, President Obama announced one of the biggest executive power grabs in American history by unilaterally rewriting our nation’s immigration laws. These actions ignore the will of the American people, who voted in November to change the way Washington operates, and flout the Constitution. If we don’t stop President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration, future presidents will continue to expand the power of the Executive Branch and encroach upon individual liberty. “Congress must fight to stop these unconstitutional actions from being implemented and these amendments to the Homeland Security Appropriations bill do just that. While opinions differ on exactly how to amend our immigration laws, one thing is certain: The president has no authority to make these decisions on his own.” NOTE: Summaries of the amendments are available here.
01.09.2015	Today, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Chairman Tom Marino (R-Pa.), Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) introduced H.R. 235, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (PITFA). Last Congress, the House of Representatives passed PITFA by voice vote. Access to the Internet is a critical gateway to jobs, education, healthcare, and entrepreneurial opportunities. Original legislation that temporarily banned Internet access taxes, the Internet Tax Freedom Act, was first enacted in 1998 and extended five times with enormous bipartisan support. The most recent extension expires on October 1, 2015. PITFA keeps the Internet affordable and drives innovation by banning access taxes permanently. If the moratorium is not renewed or made permanent, the potential tax burden on Americans would be substantial. It is estimated that Internet access tax rates could be more than twice the average rate of all other goods and services – and the last thing that Americans need is another tax bill on their doorsteps. Chairman Goodlatte, Congresswoman Eshoo, Subcommittee Chairman Marino, Congressman Chabot, and Congressman Cohen issued the following statements: Chairman Goodlatte: “Whether business owners or jobseekers, grandparents or students, all Americans benefit from tax-free access to the Internet. Internet access drives innovation and the success of our economy. It is a gateway to knowledge, opportunity, and the rest of the globe. And year after year, Congress has chosen to temporarily extend the bipartisan ban on Internet access taxes. The time has come to make this ban permanent.” Congresswoman Anna Eshoo: “At the end of the 113th Congress, the House and Senate agreed to a one year extension of the ban on taxing Internet access, a necessary measure to avoid expiration of the ban that has protected access to broadband for every American and protected the growth of our digital economy. A permanent ban on Internet access taxes is the crucial next step, and the introduction of the bipartisan Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act reopens the debate in the new Congress. Passage of this bill would ensure that millions of consumers will not be burdened with an increase to their monthly Internet bills due to new state and local access taxes.” Subcommittee Chairman Marino: “Our citizens are subject to taxation in almost every facet of their lives. Access to the Internet and thereby access to educational, health, safety, and entertainment information, is one of the last areas government has yet to tax. For too long the ban on taxation of access to the Internet has been temporary. This measure makes the ban permanent. The way it should be.” Congressman Chabot: “When Congress first enacted the Internet tax moratorium in 1998, the Internet was still in its infancy. Since then, free from the stifling effects of taxation, the Internet has grown exponentially, becoming a significant driver of economic activity and growth and an essential component of our daily lives. By making the moratorium permanent, we can foster the Internet’s future growth and innovation, while helping to ensure that Internet access remains affordable for millions of Americans." Congressman Cohen: “The Internet is more than just a tool for communicating and exchanging information, it is a critical economic necessity for millions throughout our country. The American people deserve affordable access to the internet and the Permanent Internet Access Tax Freedom Act will help prevent unreasonable cost increases that hurt consumers and slow job creation.”
01.09.2015	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) gave the following speech today in the House of Representatives to honor and recognize our nation’s law enforcement officers on National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day. Click here to watch the video. Text of Chairman Goodlatte’s remarks: On National Law Enforcement Appreciation Day, I want to extend my support and gratitude to the law enforcement officers across the country who serve our communities and the American people daily. Our nation was founded on the rule of law and every day law enforcement officers carry out this legacy. They protect our neighborhoods from criminals, fight crime, ensure justice, and keep the peace. Sadly, many law enforcement officers have died in the line of duty. Last year, 118 law enforcement officers died, including three from the Commonwealth of Virginia. Last month’s murder of two NYPD officers is a sober reminder that our nation’s law enforcement officers face danger every day as they carry out their duty to protect the American people. In the Gospel of John, we are told that there is no greater love than to lay down one’s life for one’s friends. And this is true of our nation’s law enforcement officers. Every day they risk their lives so that you and I may be safe from harm. These brave men and women are heroes and deserve to be recognized and honored for their service to our country.
01.07.2015	At the start of this Congress, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Congressman Collin Peterson (D-Minn.) introduced H.R. 185, the Regulatory Accountability Act (RAA). This legislation requires federal bureaucrats to adopt the least costly method to effectively implement the law. Last Congress, the House of Representatives passed the RAA as part of a jobs and economic growth package. Chairman Goodlatte and Congressman Peterson issued the following statements on the RAA: Chairman Goodlatte: “Washington’s endless regulatory roadblocks continually drain Americans’ hard-earned wages and stand in the way of opportunity and growth. Today, Americans face a burden of over $3 trillion from federal taxation and regulation. In fact, our federal regulatory burden is larger than the 2013 Gross Domestic Product of all but the top ten countries in the world and most importantly, that burden adds up to $15,000 per American household, nearly thirty percent of average household income in 2013. “The Regulatory Accountability Act addresses the problem of escalating, excessive federal regulatory costs in a clear, commonsense way that we can all support. This legislation directs the Executive Branch to fulfill its statutory goals set by Congress and requires simply that they reach those goals in the least costly way with better public input to find the most efficient regulatory solutions.” Congressman Peterson: “This bill will streamline and bring transparency to the regulatory process, ensuring that our farmers, ranchers and small businesses are not regulated out of business. Increasing transparency and accountability will give those who will actually feel the impact of proposed regulations, rather than Washington bureaucrats, a larger voice in the process.”
01.06.2015	On the first day of the 114th Congress, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) introduced two balanced budget constitutional amendments in the U.S. House of Representatives. Chairman Goodlatte has introduced balanced budget amendments every Congress since the 110th Congress. H.J. Res. 1 is a four-part balanced budget amendment. It contains a requirement for a balanced annual federal budget, places a spending cap on annual federal spending, imposes a three-fifths supermajority vote requirement to increase the debt limit, and a three-fifths supermajority requirement to raise taxes. The same resolution was introduced last Congress and gained 91 cosponsors. H.J. Res. 2 is identical to the balanced budget amendment considered in the House of Representatives in the 112th Congress, which received 261 bipartisan votes when it came to the House floor. This resolution requires that Congress not spend more than it receives in revenues. It also requires a true majority of each chamber to pass tax increases and a three-fifths majority to raise the debt limit. Last Congress, 142 cosponsors signed onto the resolution. Chairman Goodlatte issued the following statement: “Nearly 20 years ago, the U.S. Senate failed by one vote to pass a balanced budget constitutional amendment. If Congress had sent the amendment to the states for ratification in 1995, we would not be facing the fiscal crisis we are today and balancing the federal budget would be the norm rather than the exception. In order for Congress to consistently make the tough decisions necessary for fiscal responsibility, Congress must have the external pressure of a balanced budget requirement. “Every Congress since 2007, I have introduced amendments that require Congress to balance the federal budget. I urge my colleagues to consider the impact that reckless spending has on our nation’s future and on future generations. We should not pass on to our children and grandchildren the bleak fiscal future that our unsustainable spending is creating. “It is time for Congress to put an end to fiscal irresponsibility and stop saddling future generations with crushing debts to pay for our current spending. We must rise above partisanship and join together to send a balanced budget amendment to the states for ratification.”
01.06.2015	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 27, the Tax Code Termination Act, in the opening hours of the 114th Congress: “In the coming weeks, many Americans will start the process of filing their taxes. Anyone who has done this before is well aware of the frustrations caused by our current tax code. Navigating the impossibly complex and ever-growing tax code is a major burden on families and businesses. The tax code should work for Americans – not against them. “Even though tax reform has been discussed for many years, we have yet to see any major actions to simplify the tax code. We must force Congress to tackle tax reform head on. The best way forward is to scrap the current tax code and start fresh. That’s why I have introduced the Tax Code Termination Act. This legislation would allow us, as a nation, to collectively decide what the new tax system should look like. There are many competing alternatives, but having a set date to end the current tax code will force the issue and the debate to the top of the national agenda. Whichever tax system is adopted, I am certain that if Congress is forced to address the issue we can create a tax code that is simpler, fairer, and better for our economy than the one we are forced to comply with today.” This legislation sunsets the current IRS tax code by December 31, 2019, and calls on Congress to approve a new federal tax system by July of the same year. This legislation has previously passed the House of Representatives twice, first in 1998 and then in 2000. Thirty-two cosponsors have already signed on in support of this legislation. The Tax Code Termination Act has been referred to the House Committee on Ways and Means for further consideration. Letter of Support for H.R. 27 from the National Taxpayers Union - Click Here
01.05.2015	On Friday, January 9, 2015 the U.S. Constitution will be read aloud from the floor of the House of Representatives. The House Rules Package (H. Res. 5) will be adopted by the House on January 6, 2015 and will include the reading at the request of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). Chairman Goodlatte will lead the reading of the Constitution beginning at 9:00 a.m. The reading is open to all Members who are interested in participating and expected to take between one and two hours. Members will read the Constitution and amendments on a first come, first served basis. Leader McCarthy and Chairman Goodlatte released the following statements about Friday’s reading: Leader McCarthy: “The Constitution tells us that we, as representatives of the people, have explicitly limited powers granted to us by the people for a short period of time. It makes clear that the people come first, and that government exists for the benefit of the people. In deference to our Constitution, Republicans began a tradition: On the House floor, at the beginning of each and every Congress, we read aloud the Constitution from the preamble to the 27th amendment. In this reading, we recommit ourselves to defending and preserving the Constitution in all of our actions as public officials.” Chairman Goodlatte: “This week Members of Congress will come together on the floor of the House of Representatives to read aloud the U.S. Constitution, the very document we as Members swear an oath to uphold. There is no better way to start the 114th Congress than by reflecting on and recommitting ourselves to the fundamental founding principles enshrined in the Constitution.” The U.S. Constitution was first read at the beginning of the 112th Congress when Republicans regained the majority. To view this event, tune into C-SPAN at 9:00 a.m. on Friday, January 9 or watch online at http://www.c-span.org/Live-Video/C-SPAN/.
12.19.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) released the following joint statement after the Federal Bureau of Investigation confirmed that North Korea is responsible for the Sony cyber-attack: “We are deeply concerned that our suspicions were confirmed today by the FBI that North Korea is behind the attack on Sony Pictures and the associated threats of physical harm against U.S. citizens. We will not allow terrorists or a narcissistic dictator to dictate what products can or cannot be created and distributed in America. Whether or not we like the plot, production, or tone of The Interview, every American has a stake in ensuring that our collective freedom of speech is not abridged by either our own government or a foreign government. “The United States must stand firm against this type of aggression against our freedom of speech. Otherwise these actions will have a chilling effect on creative works in the future and will embolden North Korea and other copycats to act again to further curtail books, television and cable shows, newspapers, blogs, and web sites. Our national response to this threat must be clear and unequivocal. As the committee with jurisdiction over the Justice Department and FBI, we will continue to monitor this investigation and support efforts by the U.S. to thwart these intrusive attacks.”
12.19.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today in response to the Department of Education’s release of draft framework for the Obama Administration’s Postsecondary Institution Ratings System, commonly referred to as the college ratings plan: “The ‘draft framework’ of the proposed college ratings plan has virtually no new information to share with us and lacks specifics. Though concerns were raised by many, the Department of Education insisted upon moving forward with this ill-conceived plan and made little headway in shedding more light on what colleges and universities can expect. “My colleagues and I have said from the beginning that attempting to ‘rate’ a college education is nearly impossible nor an idea that will promote diversity and creativity. It is not the place of the federal government, through a ratings system, to attempt to measure the value of an individual’s education. The fact that this framework provides no actual formula or methodology for how the ratings will be derived is extremely concerning. Today’s announcement leaves too many questions unanswered, and I will continue to work to halt this misguided plan.”
12.18.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the United States Secret Service Protective Mission Panel’s assessment and recommendations for improvements at the United States Secret Service. “The United States Secret Service has a critical duty to ensure the safety of the President, White House personnel and the historic grounds, and there can be no room for error. Security breaches like the fence-jumping incident in mid-September are completely unacceptable and must be prevented from happening again in the future. “It is imperative that the Secret Service begin to review and implement the recommendations made by the U.S. Secret Service Protective Mission Panel as soon as possible so that it restores itself as a dynamic agency in thwarting threats made against the President of the United States. I look forward to working with the Secret Service in the coming year to make necessary improvements at the agency.” In November, the House Judiciary Committee held a public oversight hearing on the agency and then closed a portion of it to the public to discuss law enforcement sensitive matters.
12.16.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below after signing a proposed amicus brief submitted to the federal court today by the American Center for Law and Justice in support of the lawsuit filed by 24 states challenging President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration: “Last month, President Obama disregarded the will of the American people and violated the Constitution by unilaterally changing our immigration laws. These actions not only threaten to unravel our government’s system of checks and balances, but also imperil individual liberty. The President’s executive overreach on immigration must be stopped. “We are fighting President Obama’s executive overreach on multiple fronts, both at the federal and state level. I am pleased to stand by the many states that are defending our Constitution and trying to stop President Obama’s unconstitutional executive decrees from being implemented. Additionally, House Republicans will continue to fight President Obama’s pattern of executive overreach. Once Republicans take control of the Senate in January, we will have an ally to help us fight against President Obama’s unilateral, unconstitutional actions.” Earlier this month, the House Judiciary Committee held a hearing on President Obama’s executive overreach on immigration and heard from three constitutional scholars who agreed the President’s actions are unconstitutional. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte has outlined several consequences of President Obama’s unilateral actions, which can be found here.
12.10.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson regarding the Department’s abysmal morale and urged him to rescind policies that prevent DHS employees from doing their jobs. Leadership of the unions representing employees at U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Customs and Border Protection, and Citizenship and Immigration Services have all stated that morale has plummeted as the Obama Administration has issued policies that conflict with their congressionally-mandated jobs of securing the border, enforcing our immigration laws, and maintaining the integrity of our immigration system. Yesterday, DHS was ranked last on the list of large federal agencies on the 2014 Best Places to Work in the Federal Government Survey. Below is the text of the letter. The signed copy can be found here. Dear Secretary Johnson: President Obama’s recent decision to recklessly and unilaterally change U.S. immigration law ignores the will of the American people and flouts the Constitution. The American people are deeply concerned about the direction in which our country is heading and overwhelmingly voted in November to reject the Administration’s policies. However, rather than listening to the American people and changing course, President Obama continues to ignore duly enacted laws, thereby putting the public at risk and preventing executive branch employees from doing their jobs. Such actions have a direct effect on the ability and confidence with which those employees perform. I am concerned because DHS was just ranked last on the list of large federal agencies on the 2014 Best Places to Work in the Federal Government Survey. Further, a recent Washington Post article entitled, “Top-level Turnover Makes it Harder for DHS to Stay on Top of Evolving Threats,” makes clear that Department of Homeland Security (DHS) employees in particular experience “abysmal morale” and that this has been happening for “quite a number of years.” The article reports that DHS Deputy Secretary Ali Mayorkas said the Department has hired a consulting firm “to develop recommendations to improve morale.” This is a gross waste of taxpayer dollars. The way to improve morale at DHS is to simply let DHS employees do their jobs and enforce the immigration laws that have been enacted by Congress. Specifically, this can be accomplished by rescinding the directives you issued on November 20, 2014, as well as each administrative decision implemented at DHS over the last six years that has undercut the ability of officers, agents, attorneys, adjudicators and other DHS employees to actually perform their jobs. There is no doubt that morale would improve at Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) if agents and officers were not required to adhere to “priorities” aimed at ignoring existing law. While these priorities claim to target the “worst of the worst” convicted criminal aliens, the reality is that many of these convicted criminal aliens will still be released simply if they show “factors” demonstrating that they are not a threat. ICE officer morale would also improve if convicted criminal aliens were no longer released under parental directives guidelines simply because they have children present in the U.S. In addition, if ICE attorneys were permitted to defend their cases in removal proceedings or more broadly defend the agency’s legal authorities, including its detainer authority, morale would improve. Morale would also improve if the Administration did not continuously work to undermine laws enacted by Congress. Indeed, as Chris Crane, President of the ICE National Council, has stated before the House Judiciary Committee: Currently, ICE officers cannot arrest or remove most illegal immigrants they come in contact with, even if officers believe those individuals present a risk to public safety. To avoid offending special interests, ICE officers are also prohibited from making street arrests, and are also prohibited from arresting illegal immigrants who are public charges or who violate laws involving fraudulent documents. ICE officers are under orders to wait until immigration violators commit and are convicted of criminal offenses and placed in jail by state authorities before they can act in their capacity as Federal immigration officers and make an arrest. Even though illegal entry and visa overstay violations account for the majority of the 11 million illegal immigrants currently residing in the United States, DHS and ICE have directed ICE officers not to enforce the laws related to these offenses. Morale would also improve if the Administration actually permitted Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents to secure the border. As the recent influx of illegal immigrants across the southern border demonstrated, it does not matter how many aliens are apprehended along the border if apprehension itself becomes a golden ticket into the country. During August of this year, morale at U.S. Border Patrol was reported to be at an all-time low because agents felt that they were forced to stand by and watch helplessly as teenage criminal and unlawful aliens, including gang members and even murderers, were released into the United States. Chris Cabrera, the Vice President of the National Border Patrol Council Local 3307 in the Rio Grande Valley, stated: Morale is at an all-time low. Our agents aren't allowed to do the job they were hired to do. We're walking more and more people out the door. Criminal aliens are coming in. If there's no criminal history in the U.S., we're releasing them out the door into the country ... even if they're admitted gang members. We've had a couple that admitted to murders in their own country. The U.S. government thought it fit to release them to their parents here in the U.S…. "I've heard people come in and say, 'You're going to let me go, just like you let my mother go, just like you let my sister go. You're going to let me go as well, and the government's going to take care of us. Employees of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) are not immune from the pervasively low morale at DHS, which stems from a culture that pressures them to rubberstamp applications rather than effectively perform their jobs. Kenneth Palinkas, President of the National Citizenship and Immigration Services Council, the union representing 12,000 United States Citizenship and Immigration Services adjudications officers and staff, has stated that “USCIS adjudications officers are pressured to rubber stamp applications instead of conducting diligent case review and investigation. The culture at USCIS encourages all applications to be approved, discouraging proper investigation into red flags and discouraging the denial of any applications. USCIS has been turned into an approval machine.” Such allegations are not new. In fact a January 2012 DHS Office of Inspector General (OIG) report found the existence of a leadership-driven “get to yes” mentality for adjudications. According to the OIG report, “[S]everal USCIS employees informed us that [Immigration Service Officers] have been required to approve specific cases against their will. Some ISOs told us that they complied with the demands of their supervisors and approved visa applications containing suspect information.” Pressuring adjudicators to approve applications, despite factors such as fraud which indicate that the applicant may not in fact be eligible, no doubt deals a serious blow to the already low morale among employees. I urge you to stop wasting taxpayer funds paying for a consulting firm to determine the reason for low employee morale, when a much more straightforward solution is obvious: allow DHS employees to enforce U.S. immigration laws as currently written. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Bob Goodlatte Chairman
12.08.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below regarding the significant drop in removals for unlawful and criminal aliens in Fiscal Year 2014. Although Democrats have consistently stated that Congress appropriates funding for the removal of 400,000 unlawful and criminal aliens annually, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) only removed 315,000 people in Fiscal Year 2014. Of these removals, over 213,000 were recent border crossers apprehended by Customs and Border Protection – they were not encountered by ICE. Only about 102,000 were actually apprehended where ICE has primary jurisdiction – in the interior of the United States. Additionally, the removal of criminal aliens decreased by 18% from last year and Level One convicted criminal removals – whom the Obama Administration deems the “worst of the worst” – dropped 15% from last year. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Obama Administration’s abysmal immigration enforcement record for the past year confirms what we already know: it refuses to use the tools provided by Congress to enforce our laws. President Obama claims that he needs to set priorities for the enforcement of our immigration laws because he has limited resources, but he isn’t fully using the resources given to him by Congress. This year’s removal numbers impugn the President’s excuses for not enforcing our immigration laws and expose the Administration’s true motive in setting enforcement ‘priorities.’ “Additionally, for the past several years the Obama Administration has padded its already meager year-end removal numbers by including recent border crossers. This year is no different. Collectively, the President’s refusal to enforce our laws makes our communities less safe and undermines the American people’s trust in his ability to preserve the integrity of our immigration system.”
12.05.2014	This week, the House Judiciary Committee has outlined how President Obama’s actions violate the Constitution, allow criminals to evade the law, make our communities less safe, and punish legal immigrants. Collectively, these actions encourage more illegal immigration and undermine the integrity of our immigration system. How President Obama’s Immigration Enforcement Priorities Encourage More Illegal Immigration: President Obama establishes open borders: Any unlawful immigrants who do not benefit from the President’s deferred action program and are not listed as a priority for removal will surely be able to stay here indefinitely. Specifically: The Obama Administration makes it tougher to deport those who overstayed their visas. The Obama Administration makes it virtually impossible to deport aliens who violated the terms of their visas and overstayed. Aliens can only be removed if they “significantly abused” their visas in the view of the Administration. Because roughly 30-40% of the unlawful population came here legally and then overstayed their visas, there will be few, if any, sanctions in place to dissuade others from coming to the U.S. and doing the same. The Obama Administration doesn’t prioritize the removal of border crossers who came here less than a year ago. Under the new priorities, any alien that came to the U.S. prior to January 1, 2014 is not a priority for removal. This means that the tens of thousands of unaccompanied alien minors, family units, and adults who came here during the border surge after the implementation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program and before this cut-off date will surely be able to stay here indefinitely. This will encourage more people to make the dangerous trek north to the United States, hoping to benefit from a future amnesty. The Obama Administration doesn’t prioritize the removal of fugitives. As noted earlier this week, there are currently about 900,000 aliens with final removal orders. Although the Obama Administration previously deemed fugitive aliens as a priority for removal, now they are no longer a priority if they were issued a removal order before January 1, 2014. This means that the Obama Administration is disregarding the removal orders they have already issued and wasting millions of taxpayer dollars spent obtaining these orders. As a result, many more aliens with final removal orders might be tempted to take their chances and abscond. President Obama permits sanctuary city policies: Under President Obama’s immigration edicts, he has ended Secure Communities – a simple and successful program to screen criminal aliens arrested and booked in jails – and has replaced it with a watered-down screening program. Additionally, the President has gone one step further by ending U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) detainers, meaning the ability to pick up and process removable aliens encountered by law enforcement, in most circumstances. In place of detainers, ICE will issue “requests for notification” to state and local law enforcement regarding who is in their custody. This effectively leaves states and localities responsible regarding the decision to enforce or not enforce the immigration laws: they can refuse to comply with the requests for notification should they choose to do so. History Shows That Amnesty Without Enforcement Leads to More Illegal Immigration: The 1986 immigration overhaul didn’t end illegal immigration: In 1986, Congress passed and President Reagan signed into law an immigration bill that granted roughly three million unlawful immigrants a path to citizenship and promised the enforcement of our immigration laws going forward. However, these promises were never kept and today the United States has roughly 11 million unlawful immigrants. President Obama’s deferred action program created a border surge: In the summer of 2012, President Obama created the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program by executive decree, allowing hundreds of thousands of unlawful immigrants to live and work here. Subsequently, tens of thousands of children, family units, and adults from Central America flooded our nation’s southern border with the hope of benefiting from this program. Specifically, the number of unaccompanied alien minors crossing the border jumped from 6,560 in FY 2011 to 13,623 in FY 2012. The number of children crossing the border illegally then soared from 24,658 in FY 2013 to 68,541 in FY 2014. And the number of family units seeking to come here illegally grew from 13,600 in FY 2012 to 68,445 in FY 2014. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) made the following statement on this issue: “President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions do nothing to end illegal immigration. In fact, the President’s actions will only make it worse. By allowing unlawful immigrants to live and work here and by gutting the interior enforcement of our immigration laws, President Obama has opened the floodgates to another wave of illegal immigration at our border. Immigration reform starts with enforcement first, not amnesty.”
12.04.2014	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 219-197 the Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act (H.R. 5759) to prevent President Obama or any future president from inappropriately exempting or deferring the removal of entire categories of unlawful immigrants. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the statement below praising House passage of this legislation. Chairman Goodlatte: “Two weeks ago, President Obama declared war against the Constitution by changing our immigration laws on his own and Congress today began its fight against this unprecedented power grab by passing the Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act. “The Constitution is clear: it is the role of Congress to make all laws, the Judiciary to interpret the laws, and the President to enforce the laws. This system was wisely set into place by our country’s framers over 200 years ago because they knew first hand that the concentration of power in the same hands was a threat to individual liberty and the rule of law. President Obama’s decision to ignore the limitations placed on his authority and claim legislative power threatens to undo our system of government. “Fortunately, the Framers wisely gave Congress many tools to guard against the executive branch accumulating too much power. Today’s approval of the Preventing Executive Overreach on Immigration Act will stop the President from changing our immigration laws unilaterally. Although the Democrat-controlled Senate refuses to join us in our fight against these unconstitutional actions, President Obama is on notice that his actions will not be tolerated come January when Republicans take control of the Senate. Today’s vote is just the beginning of our fight against President Obama’s power grab.” Summary of H.R. 5759: reaffirms the constitutional principles that only Congress has the power to write immigration laws and that the President must enforce those laws; prevents President Obama or any future president from exempting or deferring the removal of categories of unlawful aliens except to the extent that the president is relying on his constitutional powers over foreign affairs or utilizing exceptions provided for in the bill for exceptional humanitarian and law enforcement circumstances; prevents President Obama or any future president from considering such aliens to be lawfully present in the United States (and thus renders them ineligible for the rights and privileges available to lawfully present aliens); prevents President Obama or any future president from granting work authorization to such aliens; and takes effect as if enacted on November 20, 2014, thus nullifying the president’s recent executive action.
12.04.2014	President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions are not without cost. Not only do they violate the Constitution, allow criminals to evade the law, and make our communities less safe, the President’s actions also punish legal immigrants. Legal Immigrants Will Face Longer Wait Times: Legal immigrants playing by the rules and seeking to come to the United States the right way will pay the price for President Obama’s executive actions. As U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services shifts attention and resources to the processing of applications for unlawful immigrants, legal immigrants will face longer wait times for their petitions to be processed. This was true under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which has allowed over 600,000 unlawful immigrants to stay here so far. On February 8, 2014, the New York Times reported that “many thousands of Americans seeking green cards for foreign spouses or other immediate relatives have been separated from them for a year or more because of swelling bureaucratic delays at a federal immigration agency in recent months” and that “the long waits came when the agency, Citizenship and Immigration Services, shifted attention and resources to a program President Obama started in 2012 to give deportation deferrals to young undocumented immigrants.” The New York Times noted that this “play[ed] havoc with international moves and children’s schools and keeping families apart.” With over five million unlawful immigrants standing to benefit from President Obama’s new executive decree, legal immigrants will only face longer wait times, even though they’ve already paid the fees to have their applications processed. Unlawful Immigrants Get A Free Pass, But Legal Immigrants Don’t: Legal immigrants and their sponsors are required to pay fees to file their applications but those benefiting from the President’s deferred action plan don’t. For example, U.S. citizens filing an application for a greencard for a family member are required to pay $420 just to submit their application to determine a qualifying relationship. And some relatives may have to then adjust their immigration status by filing another form, which costs $985. But DACA and other deferred action applicants don’t have to pay anything to cover the processing of the deferred action application. They only pay the fee to cover the work authorization application ($380) and the fee to cover the fingerprint submission ($85). House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) stated the following regarding the consequences of President Obama’s unilateral actions for legal immigrants. “President Obama’s unilateral immigration actions wrongfully punish legal immigrants who have played by the rules and waited in line for their turn to come to the United States. Not only does this send the message to the world that our immigration laws can be broken without consequence, it also shows that those who break our laws will be ushered to the front of the line. The President’s actions provide little incentive to follow our immigration laws and will undoubtedly encourage more illegal immigration.”
12.03.2014	President Obama recently announced unilateral changes to our immigration system. What he didn’t announce is that many of these changes make our communities less safe. President Obama claims he is taking executive action to prioritize immigration enforcement to focus on criminal aliens, yet he is scrapping a congressionally-mandated tool that identifies criminal aliens booked in jails across the United States so that federal law enforcement officials can prioritize their removal. Secure Communities, created in 2008, is a simple and successful program to identify criminal aliens once arrested and jailed. It protects Americans from public safety threats and those who could be a danger to their communities. The Facts About Secure Communities: Congressionally-mandated: In 2008, U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement (ICE) launched Secure Communities following the enactment of a law requiring the agency to “improve and modernize efforts to identify aliens convicted of a crime, sentenced to imprisonment, and who may be deportable, and remove them from the United States, once they are judged deportable.” Simple to use: As the Department of Homeland Security has said on numerous occasions, Secure Communities simply “uses an already-existing federal-information sharing partnership between ICE and the Federal Bureau of Investigation that helps to identify criminal aliens” so that ICE can take enforcement action. Successful in meeting its mission: As of August 2014, the Administration indicated that since the program’s initial activation in Harris County, Texas, over 375,000 aliens and 121,000 Level 1– who the Obama Administration deems the “worst of the worst” – convicted criminal aliens were removed as a result of Secure Communities. Already rolled out nation-wide: Since its inception in 2008 with 14 jurisdictions, Secure Communities was expanded to all 3,181 jurisdictions within 50 states, the District of Columbia, and five U.S. Territories. Full implementation was completed on January 22, 2013. Instead of continuing to utilize this successful, existing system that is required and appropriated by Congress, the Obama Administration will implement a new, untested program called the “Priorities Enforcement Program.” The Facts About the Administration’s “Priorities Enforcement Program”: Turns a blind eye to most unlawful immigrants: Obama Administration officials claim that the new “Priorities Enforcement Program” will continue to rely on biometric data but ICE will only be able to seek to transfer an alien in the custody of state and local law enforcement through the new program when the alien has been convicted of certain, but not all, of the offenses listed in the Administration’s new, so-called immigration enforcement “priorities.” Ignores the Administration’s own priorities: The Obama Administration ignores some of its own criminal priorities for the purposes of processing for removal under the “Priorities Enforcement Program.” As a result of this loophole, recent border crossers who came to the United States after January 1, 2014, those who overstayed the terms of their visas, and fugitives of the law are not required to be processed for removal – even though the Obama Administration deems them as priorities. Authorizes sanctuary city policies: Not only does the Obama Administration end the Secure Communities program as we know it, it also ends ICE detainers, meaning the ability to pick up and process removable aliens encountered by law enforcement, in most circumstances. In place of detainers, ICE will issue “requests for notification” to state and local law enforcement regarding who is in their custody. This effectively leaves states and localities responsible regarding the decision of immigration enforcement: they can refuse to comply with the requests for notification should they choose to do so. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) stated the following on the Obama Administration’s decision to gut Secure Communities: “President Obama seems to be ending Secure Communities for one reason only: it works. Secure Communities has a proven track record of identifying dangerous criminal aliens booked in jails across the United States so that they can be removed from the United States and no longer threaten our communities. By ending this successful program and allowing entire categories of criminal aliens to remain in the United States, President Obama is knowingly placing Americans in danger.”
12.02.2014	President Obama recently announced unilateral changes to our immigration system, allowing millions of unlawful immigrants to evade immigration enforcement and issuing new, so-called “priorities” for the apprehension, detention, and removal of unlawful and criminal aliens. Under the Obama Administration’s new enforcement priorities, Obama Administration officials further carve out already existing exceptions created by them in 2011 to excuse groups of unlawful and criminal aliens from facing the law. The Facts About the Obama Administration’s “Priorities”: Loopholes ensure that no one is actually a guaranteed priority: President Obama claims that terrorists, national security threats, gang members, and felons are his number one priority for removal. However, the Obama Administration has left wiggle room so that it can choose not to enforce its own priorities. Under the guidelines, criminal aliens of the highest priority can be released into our communities if the Obama Administration believes they qualify for asylum or there are “compelling and exceptional factors” for their release. “Compelling and exceptional factors” are not defined in the guidelines. Fugitives no longer a priority for removal: There are currently 900,000 aliens with final removal orders. Although the Obama Administration previously deemed fugitive aliens a priority for removal, now they are no longer a priority if they were issued a removal order before January 1, 2014. This means that the Obama Administration is disregarding the removal orders they have already issued and wasting millions of taxpayer dollars. Sentences issued by judges are ignored: As a result of the Obama Administration’s new enforcement guidelines, many convicted criminal aliens – regardless of the severity of their crime – will be able to avoid deportation. Specifically, the Obama Administration’s new priorities state that aliens can be removed based only upon the time served in custody. This is completely contrary to the term “conviction” as defined under current law. Under the law, the applicable period of incarceration or confinement is the timeframe ordered by the court, regardless of any suspension/execution of the sentence in whole or in part. Gang members can stay: Although the Obama Administration claims gang members are a top priority for removal, the guidelines are unworkable in practice since there is no ground for removal under current law for “gang activity or offenses” and because criminal actors are convicted for their criminal offenses—not for being a member of a criminal street gang as the Obama Administration proposes. Gang members also are often convicted under state, not federal law. State convictions for gang-related activity are ignored under the Administration’s priorities. Additionally, the guidelines are riddled with loopholes: they state that gang members under the age of 16 are not a priority for removal and contain a duress exception for criminal conduct, which will likely lead to gang members claiming they were supposedly “forced” to participate in illegal activity. Furthermore, no one will be removed unless their participation in the gang “furthers” the illegal activity of the gang. Identity theft and document fraud not a priority: Under the guidelines, any felony conviction directly connected to the alien’s immigration status and in violation of a state or local law – such as identity theft, visa fraud, document fraud, passport fraud, and smuggling – will not be considered as a criminal conviction worthy of prioritization for removal. Obama Administration turns a blind eye to misdemeanors: The Obama Administration’s new guidelines contain a myriad of loopholes to let aliens convicted of misdemeanors off the hook. For example, aliens have to be convicted three times for three separate incidents in order to be deemed a priority for removal. If all three misdemeanors arrive out of the same criminal event, the Obama Administration counts that as only one offense for the purposes of removal. Furthermore, while aliens convicted of a “significant misdemeanor” – such as domestic violence, sexual abuse or exploitation, burglary, unlawful possession of a firearm, drug distribution or trafficking, or driving under the influence – are deemed as a priority for removal, they can stay here if they simply show “factors” warranting release. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) made the following statement on the Obama Administration’s new immigration enforcement priorities: “President Obama claims that he has scarce resources to enforce our immigration laws, but this is just an excuse in order to advance his anti-enforcement agenda. In fact, the loopholes contained in the Obama Administration’s new guidelines ensure that no one is actually a priority for removal. By letting entire categories of unlawful and criminal aliens off the hook, President Obama encourages more illegal immigration and needlessly places Americans at risk. These new policies are out-of control and irresponsible, pure and simple.”
12.01.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson and U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Acting Director Thomas Winkowski regarding the shocking allegations made in a lawsuit filed by Patricia Vroom, an attorney at ICE with an exemplary 26-year career, in the U.S. District Court of Arizona. The complaint filed by Ms. Vroom alleges that a group of ICE supervisors bullied career attorneys to force compliance with the Obama Administration’s anti-enforcement policies and routinely told them to ignore the law and release certain criminal aliens. The complaint also claims numerous instances of abuse by ICE managers, including harassment, threats, insults, and other deplorable behavior. Chairman Goodlatte made the following statement on the lawsuit filed by Ms. Vroom: “I am deeply concerned about the allegations in the complaint and the House Judiciary Committee will conduct aggressive oversight into these allegations. What is troubling is that several of the people named in the complaint are tasked with enforcing our immigration laws and implementing the President’s November 20, 2014, announcement which further curtails immigration enforcement.” To read Chairman Goodlatte’s letter to Secretary Johnson and Acting Director Winkowski, click here.
12.01.2014	President Obama recently announced unilateral changes to our immigration system, allowing millions of unlawful immigrants to evade immigration enforcement. These actions are not without cost: they ignore the will of the American people and violate the Constitution. President’s Actions Ignore the Will of the American People: Americans oppose the President’s unilateral actions: Americans went to the polls on Nov. 4 and voted to change the way Washington operates. Poll after poll after poll show that a plurality of Americans do not want President Obama to act alone on immigration. And a recent Rasmussen poll shows that a majority of Americans do not approve of the President’s unilateral actions. Americans want our immigration laws enforced: A recent Rasmussen poll shows that 56% of Americans don’t think the federal government is doing enough to enforce our immigration laws. And another poll shows that 60% of Americans believe gaining control of our nation’s borders is more important than legalizing unlawful immigrants living in the United States. President Obama’s Actions Violate the Constitution: President Obama has taken actions that he once said amounted to violating the Constitution: President Obama has stated over 20 times that he does not have the constitutional authority to change our immigration laws unilaterally. The Constitution does not give legislative power to the President: The Constitution clearly states that it is Congress’ duty to write our laws and it’s the President’s responsibility to enforce them. Article II, Section 3, of the Constitution requires the president to “take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed.” This clause compels the president to enforce all constitutionally valid acts of Congress, regardless of his administration’s view of their wisdom. That is a duty, not an option. President Obama’s action amounts to ignoring the law, as an estimated four million to five million unlawful immigrants—close to half of the illegal population—stand to benefit from the decree. That does not constitute faithful execution of the law. President Obama has stretched prosecutorial discretion beyond recognition: While law enforcement agencies do have the inherent power to exercise prosecutorial discretion – the authority as to whether to enforce, or not enforce, the law against particular individuals – this power must be judiciously used and is not “an invitation to violate or ignore the law,” as Dorris Meissner, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service during the Clinton administration, told her agency in a 2000 memo. By granting executive amnesty to five million unlawful immigrants, President Obama has crossed the line from any justifiable use of his authority to a clear violation of his constitutional responsibility to faithfully execute the laws. The size and scope of President Obama’s anticipated actions are unprecedented: President Obama dismisses criticism of taking executive action on immigration by saying it’s nothing new. It’s true that previous presidents of both parties provided immigration relief to groups of aliens, sometimes abusing their power of prosecutorial discretion and stretching their inherent authority to the breaking point. But two wrongs don’t make a right. It is important to note, however, that the number of people benefiting from these uses of authority was much smaller and usually the actions were based on an emergency in a foreign country, thereby relying upon the broad constitutional power given to the Executive Branch to conduct foreign affairs. Circumstances matter, and without any crisis in a foreign country to justify his actions, President Obama has exceeded his constitutional powers. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) stated the following on President Obama’s unilateral actions: “It’s both perplexing and alarming that President Obama has decided to move forward with executive actions that he once said he didn’t have the constitutional power to take. The President’s decision to recklessly forge ahead with a plan to unilaterally change our immigration laws ignores the will of the American people and flouts the Constitution. “The debate in Congress over the past two years has shown that there is a willingness and need to reform our nation’s immigration laws. While opinions differ within Congress on exactly how to amend our laws, one thing is certain: the President has no authority to make these important decisions on his own.”
11.25.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-Tex.) wrote a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting information about two questionable terms in the Justice Department’s recent mortgage-lending settlement agreements with two major banks. The Department’s most recent settlements with Bank of America and Citigroup required millions of dollars in minimum donations to activist groups from an approved list, which includes La Raza and NeighborWorks, which has been described as “fund(ing) a national network of left-wing community organizers operating in the mold of Acorn.” In addition, as an incentive for donations above the minimum to these groups, settling banks earn two dollars’ worth of credit against their Department-mandated consumer relief commitment for every one dollar donated. As stated in the letter, “[T]hese startling terms in the Justice Department’s two latest settlements make them look less like consumer relief and more like bank ‘shakedowns’ to benefit special interest groups.” Read more about the unprecedented terms of the Justice Department’s mortgage-lending settlements in the text of the letter to Attorney General Holder below: Dear Attorney General Holder: We request information about the Justice Department’s mortgage-lending lawsuits and whether they actually deliver redress to consumers genuinely harmed. Relief for these consumers is long overdue, yet the Justice Department’s record settlements have left homeowners disappointed. It seems that the alleged victims are not the primary beneficiaries of these multi-billion dollar settlements. Instead, the terms in the Justice Department’s two latest settlements look less like consumer relief and more like a scheme to funnel money to politically favored special interest groups. First, the settling banks must donate a minimum of $150 million to activist groups like La Raza and NeighborWorks, which funds a national network of community organizers. Second, for each dollar donated above the minimum, banks earn two dollars’ worth of credit against their overall consumer relief commitment. By contrast, direct forms of consumer relief, such as loan modifications, earn only dollar-for-dollar credit. This makes donations to activist groups far more attractive to banks than providing direct relief to injured consumers. As a result, the settlements appear to serve as a vehicle for funding activist groups rather than as a means of securing relief for consumers actually harmed. On July 14, 2014, the Justice Department announced a $7 billion mortgage-lending settlement with Citigroup that included $2.5 billion in “consumer relief.” In its press release touting the settlement, the Department described the relief as “innovative” and as going beyond the “principal reductions and loan modifications . . . built into previous resolutions.” The details of this relief were contained in Annex 2 of the agreement. Menu item 4F of the annex requires a minimum $10 million in donations to HUD-approved “housing counseling agencies,” which include La Raza and NeighborWorks. Menu items 4D and 4E require an additional minimum $40 million in donations for housing-related organizations, including “legal aid” and community development “non-profits.” For every dollar donated above the $50 million minimum, Citigroup will earn two dollars’ worth of credit against its $2.5 billion consumer relief commitment. By contrast, for direct forms of consumer relief, like principal forgiveness, the base credit is merely dollar-for-dollar. Nearly identical terms appear in the Department’s August 21, 2014 settlement with Bank of America (BoA). This settlement, which the Department has described as “historic,” demands a minimum of $100 million in donations to housing-related organizations, including counseling agencies, “legal aid” organizations and community development “non-profits.” For every dollar donated above the minimum, BoA’s credit against its overall $7 billion consumer relief obligation is two-for-one. Again, the base credit for direct forms of consumer relief is just dollar-for-dollar. These terms appear unprecedented. The Department’s November 2013 mortgage-lending settlement with J.P. Morgan Chase, for example, included only direct forms of consumer relief. Certain previous agreements, including during the George W. Bush Administration, provided that any funds remaining after all consumer injury had been redressed could go to third-party groups. But that is far different from earmarking mandatory minimum donations to activist groups as central provisions of settlements, and giving banks twice the incentive to funnel settlement funds to third-party groups instead of to harmed consumers. In light of these concerns, we request that the Department conduct a briefing for the Judiciary and Financial Services Committees as soon as possible on the foregoing settlement terms and ask that you provide the following answers and information before the briefing and no later than December 9, 2014: Identify the individuals who were involved in making the decision to depart from the J.P. Morgan Chase settlement format and add the mandatory donations and two-for-one credit terms to the Citigroup and BoA settlements, and in the subsequent implementation of those settlement terms. Were non-profits that stood to gain involved in any manner in that decision? If so, which ones and to what extent? Were any White House officials involved in the decision? If so, who and to what extent? Did Citigroup or BoA ever receive any formal or informal guidance from the Department or the White House regarding which particular groups should receive donations? Please provide all communications relating to what became the “Community Reinvestment and Neighborhood Stabilization” provisions in the Citigroup and BoA settlements. Please also provide any communications discussing similar terms as part of the J.P. Morgan Chase settlement discussions. Thank you for your prompt attention to this request.
11.24.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today issued a Committee report outlining the findings of the Judiciary Committee’s thorough investigation into the mismanagement of taxpayer funds during the renovation of the Richard H. Poff Federal Building located in Roanoke, Virginia. The Poff Federal Building houses several critical federal entities, including the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia, the U.S. Marshals Service district headquarters, and the Department of Veterans Affairs Roanoke Regional Office. Chairman Goodlatte has aggressively sought answers from GSA regarding the cost and scope of this wasteful project. The House Judiciary Committee’s report documents the U.S. General Services Administration’s (GSA) mishandling of the Poff Building renovation from its failure to follow fundamental procedures designed to prevent government waste to its failure to properly plan and to anticipate and manage the project. The report also highlights GSA’s efforts to dodge concerns from the local community and from Congress. Below are statements from Chairman Goodlatte and House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), the Committee with jurisdiction over the GSA. Chairman Goodlatte: “One simple phrase can sum up the renovation of the Poff Federal Building in Roanoke – it’s a hallmark in waste. In 2009, it was announced that nearly $51 million of taxpayer money would be spent to make the Poff Federal Building more energy efficient. However, the project has instead resulted in ballooning costs and an overall lack of transparency, unresponsiveness, and dismissal of the public’s concerns. “As the Committee recently learned, problems with GSA’s responsiveness and management of facilities are not isolated. Issues at the Poff Federal Building in Roanoke are symptomatic of widespread deficiencies in GSA’s service and wasteful spending decisions throughout the nation. “The report issued today clearly outlines the major issues with the project, including the ever increasing costs of the renovation, the lack of a thorough cost benefit analysis of the project, the process that GSA used to award contracts for the project, and the failure of GSA to meet the needs of the tenants. The Poff Federal Building is a prime example of the kind of wasteful spending in Washington that must be eliminated. It is critical that we continue to ensure that taxpayer money is spent wisely and that GSA is held accountable for this boondoggle.” Chairman Shuster: “The Administration wasted millions of stimulus dollars in its rush to ‘green’ federal buildings without congressional input. Chairman Goodlatte’s report chronicles the misguided spending and costly mistakes of the Administration’s stimulus program at a single courthouse in Virginia. The General Services Administration can and should do better.” Key Findings of the House Judiciary Committee Report: GSA failed to properly plan and squandered millions of taxpayer dollars. GSA violated federal contracting law & undermined public confidence by foolishly offering to pay a maximum sum for the Poff project. GSA’s misfeasance prevented the implementation of important security, building code, and life safety improvements. The Poff project repeatedly impacted the ability of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Virginia to administer justice and negatively impacted the ability of the Roanoke Veterans Affairs Regional Office to serve veterans. GSA attempted to avoid accountability by refusing to fully address questions from the Roanoke community, the press, and Virginia’s representatives in Washington, D.C. Additional Information: Click here to download a PDF copy of the report, “A Hallmark in Taxpayer Waste: The U.S. General Services Administration’s Mismanagement of Taxpayer Funds at Roanoke’s Poff Federal Building.” In June, the Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet Subcommittee held a hearing on “GSA’s Failure to Meet the Needs of the Judiciary: A Case Study of Bureaucratic Negligence and Waste.”
11.21.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below in advance of President Obama’s speech today on his unconstitutional immigration actions in Las Vegas, Nevada. When Congress returns after the Thanksgiving break, the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on President Obama’s unconstitutional power grab on Tuesday, December 2, 2014. The time and witness list will be announced later. Chairman Goodlatte: “Last night, President Obama went all-in against the Constitution and today he is doubling-down on his lawlessness in Las Vegas of all places. Unfortunately for the American people, the President has ignored their opinions and forged ahead with his plan, creating a constitutional crisis and an untold number of consequences for the American people and legal immigrants. “When Congress returns in early December, the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on the unconstitutionality of President Obama’s power grab. The stakes of inaction are high and Congress will use the best tools available to stop President Obama from implementing his unconstitutional plan.” Chairman Goodlatte issued a statement last night on President Obama’s unconstitutional, unilateral actions. Earlier this week, Chairman Goodlatte joined House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) in sending a letter to President Obama demanding that he abandon his plan to change our immigration laws on his own. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte’s op-ed on this subject was published in the Wall Street Journal this week.
11.21.2014	Following the Environmental Protection Agency’s announcement that the 2014 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) will not be finalized this year, Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Steve Womack (R-AR) released the following statement: “These delays by the EPA are completely unacceptable. After nearly a year with no action on the proposed RFS for 2014, the EPA has decided to throw in the towel and punt the final decision until next year. It’s extremely disappointing that this decision on renewable fuel obligations for 2014 has taken so long and will not be resolved by the end of the year. How can the industry comply with a mandate that is released after they are already supposed to be in compliance? The longer stakeholders are forced to wait, the more uncertainty it creates in the marketplace. The EPA’s proposal for 2014, which included a reduction in the amount of ethanol blended into the fuel supply, was a positive step forward and acknowledged that the mandate is unworkable, detrimental to the environment, and price distorting to feedstock industries throughout the country. Action is needed now to reduce the ethanol mandate and provide much-needed relief. This issue needs to be addressed immediately, not several months into 2015. Today’s action once again proves that the RFS is unworkable and that Congress must reform the RFS.”
11.20.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the announcement that President Obama will act unilaterally to change our immigration laws and shield five million unlawful immigrants from immigration enforcement. Chairman Goodlatte: “It’s both perplexing and alarming that President Obama has decided to move forward with executive actions that he once said he didn’t have the constitutional power to take. The President’s decision to recklessly forge ahead with a plan to unilaterally change our immigration laws ignores the will of the American people and flouts the Constitution. The American people are deeply concerned about the direction of our country and went to the polls earlier this month to overwhelmingly reject the Obama Administration’s policies. Rather than listen to the American people and change course, President Obama is going rogue, doubling-down, and driving full speed towards a constitutional crisis. By assuming legislative power and ignoring the limitations placed on his authority, President Obama threatens to unravel our government’s system of checks and balances and imperils individual liberty. “Additionally, the President’s shortsighted actions further set back any chance of enacting immigration reform. The debate in Congress over the past two years has shown that there is a willingness and need to reform our nation’s immigration system. While there are varying opinions on how to amend our immigration laws, one thing is clear: the President does not have the authority to change our immigration laws by executive decree. It’s disappointing that President Obama has refused to work with the new men and women Americans elected to represent them in Congress. Since the President has acted outside the confines of his authority, I will work with my colleagues in both the House and the Senate to stop the President’s unconstitutional actions from being implemented.” Chairman Goodlatte joined House Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul (R-Texas) yesterday in sending a letter to President Obama demanding that he abandon his unconstitutional plan to act unilaterally on immigration. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte’s op-ed on this subject was published in yesterday’s Wall Street Journal.
11.19.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement after the House Republican Conference voted to confirm the GOP Steering Committee’s recommendation that he continue to serve as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee in the 114th Congress. Chairman Goodlatte: “I am honored to have been chosen to continue my service as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. The Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over some of the most important issues facing our nation, including Constitutional freedoms and civil liberties, legal and regulatory reform, competition and antitrust laws, terrorism and crime, immigration reform, and intellectual property protections. “Over the last two years the House Judiciary Committee has examined many of these issues while advancing an agenda focused on restoring economic prosperity to America. I am proud of the numerous legislative accomplishments we had in the 113th Congress, including the House passage of the bipartisan USA Freedom Act, ending bulk collection of data by the government and reforming our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs, the bipartisan Innovation Act, which combats the problem of abusive patent litigation, numerous bills aimed at reducing burdensome regulations that are stifling economic growth and legislation to require mandatory sanctions for attorneys who file frivolous lawsuits. “In the 114th Congress, we intend to build on these successes and will continue to pursue a pro-growth agenda that is focused on creating jobs and making America more competitive and free.”
11.19.2014	Today, Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Virginia, chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary, and Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, demand President Barack Obama abandon his plan to bypass Congressional authority and move on immigration via executive order. “Instead of proceeding with ill-advised executive action, we implore you to work with Congress to enact legislation to address our broken immigration system,” the Chairmen said in a letter to President Obama. “We strongly urge you to respect the Constitution and abandon any unconstitutional, unilateral executive actions on immigration. Let’s secure the border, enforce our immigration laws in the interior of the United States, and build a broad consensus for immigration reform. Otherwise, as the chairmen of the committees with oversight over border security and our nation’s immigration laws, we will be forced to use the tools afforded to Congress by the Constitution to stop your administration from successfully carrying out your plan.” The signed letter to President Barack Obama is available HERE. The text of the letter to President Barack Obama follows: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave., NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President, We join our fellow members of Congress in expressing our disappointment in your continued efforts to bypass Congressional authority. The latest indications that you will take executive action on immigration later this week are a slap in the face to the American people and the Constitution. Earlier this month, the American people rejected your policies you said were on the ballot and voted to change the way Washington operates. According to several recent polls, the American people want you to refrain from acting on your own to change our immigration laws. They want you to abide by the Constitution and work with the newly elected Congress to address our nation’s greatest challenges, both domestically and internationally. The Constitution is clear that it is Congress’ duty to write our laws and, once they are enacted, it is the president’s responsibility to enforce them. Something as important as changing our immigration laws cannot be forced by unilateral action by the president. That’s not the way our system of government works. In the past, we have seen the surge in illegal immigration that comes when amnesty is promised and the enforcement of our immigration laws is ignored. With more than 11 million unlawful immigrants already in the United States, the answer to our immigration crisis is not to invite more illegal immigration. The answer is to secure the border and enforce our immigration laws. Executive action will simply perpetuate and exacerbate a cycle of unlawful entry into the United States. This was true under the 1986 amnesty, it has been true under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, and it has been true under your administration’s policy to not follow the immigration laws already on the books. Instead of proceeding with ill-advised executive action, we implore you to work with Congress to enact legislation to address our broken immigration system. We strongly urge you to respect the Constitution and abandon any unconstitutional, unilateral executive actions on immigration. Let’s secure the border, enforce our immigration laws in the interior of the United States, and build a broad consensus for immigration reform. Otherwise, as the chairmen of the committees with oversight over border security and our nation’s immigration laws, we will be forced to use the tools afforded to Congress by the Constitution to stop your administration from successfully carrying out your plan. Sincerely, Michael McCaul Chairman House Homeland Security Committee Bob Goodlatte Chairman House Judiciary Committee
11.14.2014	The State Department and U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) today announced that certain aliens – lawful permanent residents and those with temporary protected status, parole, withholding of removal, deferred action, and deferred enforced departure – will be able to petition for their unmarried children under the age of 21 and their current spouse (if they live with the child) to be considered for in-country refugee processing. If they do not meet the refugee requirements under the law, they can then be considered for parole into the United States, a tool that is, even according to the Administration itself, meant to be used sparingly on a case-by-case basis. To qualify, the alien’s family must be in Honduras, Guatemala, or El Salvador. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below criticizing the Obama Administration’s new policy. Chairman Goodlatte: “The policy announced by the Obama Administration today is simply a government-sanctioned border surge. Under this abusive new policy, unlawful immigrants in the United States, once they are granted executive amnesty by the President, can now rely on the Obama Administration to bring their child, and possibly their spouse, who are in Central America to our country. Rather than take the steps necessary to end the crisis at the border, the Obama Administration perpetuates it by abusing a legal tool meant to be used sparingly to bring people to the United States and instead applying it to the masses in Central America. “President Obama continues to take actions that reward people for breaking our laws, which only encourage more to do the same. If President Obama moves forward with granting even more unlawful immigrants legal status, as he is expected to do as soon as next week, the policy announced today could open Pandora’s box, allowing potentially even more people to come to the United States. This is bad policy and undermines the integrity of our immigration system.” According to the USCIS website, “humanitarian parole is used sparingly to bring someone who is otherwise inadmissible into the United States for a temporary period of time due to a compelling emergency.” Additionally, “USCIS may grant parole temporarily to anyone applying for admission into the United States based on urgent humanitarian reasons or if there is a significant public benefit” and “for a period of time that corresponds with the length of the emergency or humanitarian situation.”
11.13.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the release of an internal Department of Homeland Security review on the events of September 19, 2014, when Omar Gonzalez scaled the north fence and ran through the unlocked doors of the White House. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Department of Homeland Security’s review of the mid-September security breach at the White House reads as a comedy of errors by the U.S. Secret Service and confirms that fundamental reform is needed to improve both the security of the White House grounds and staff training. This report makes clear that everything that could have gone wrong that evening did. Inadequate training, poor communication, and lax physical security at the White House led to this breach. We must ensure that the Secret Service has all of the tools, training, and resources necessary to protect the President, White House personnel, and the historic grounds. “The Department’s review underscores the need for a thorough review of the agency’s protective mission and makes next week’s House Judiciary Committee oversight hearing on the Secret Service even more critical. I and the other members of the House Judiciary Committee are anxious to get to the bottom of these problems at the agency so that we prevent such security lapses from happening again in the future.” On Wednesday, November 19th at 10:00 a.m., the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the United States Secret Service, will hold a public oversight hearing on the agency and will then close a portion of it to the public to discuss classified matters. Acting Director Joseph Clancy will testify before the Committee.
11.10.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) sent a letter today to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on the issue of net neutrality. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte challenges the notion that regulating the Internet is the most effective way to achieve net neutrality and protect consumers from discriminatory conduct. The letter explains why vigorous enforcement of our nation’s antitrust laws is a superior approach to promoting an open and free Internet, including the fact than an antitrust approach allows maximum flexibility and innovation in the marketplace rather than a one-size-fits-all government mandate. In addition, Chairman Goodlatte issued the following comment in response to statements released today by President Obama and FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler on net neutrality: Chairman Goodlatte: “Today, President Obama called on the FCC to impose a decades-old regulatory structure on one of the most dynamic and competitive marketplaces in history, the Internet. This approach is of questionable legality and would significantly diminish innovation on the Internet, investment in its infrastructure and the judgment of the free market would be replaced with the decisions of a government regulator. In short, President Obama’s regulatory approach would leave consumers with fewer choices and higher prices, the antithesis of net neutrality. “Regulations designed for old, monopolistic long-distance telephone lines would have disastrous results on the Internet. A better way to address issues of net neutrality is to turn to our nation’s time-tested antitrust laws. These laws have consistently demonstrated their ability to prevent discriminatory and anti-competitive conduct. “I urge Chairman Wheeler to examine the history of the Internet and how the free market has enhanced its rapid growth, the record from the Judiciary Committee’s recent hearing on whether antitrust law or regulation is more effective at protecting consumers and innovation on the Internet, and reports from the Justice Department and Federal Trade Commission—the two antitrust enforcement agencies—that vigorous enforcement of antitrust laws are the most efficient way to achieve an open and competitive Internet.”
11.07.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the following statement on President Obama’s intent to nominate Loretta Lynch as the next United States Attorney General. Chairman Goodlatte: “Tomorrow President Obama intends to announce the nomination of Loretta Lynch, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, as the next United States Attorney General. If the Senate approves her appointment, Ms. Lynch would assume the role of the nation’s top law enforcement officer, a responsibility that requires the highest levels of integrity, a commitment to enforcing our nation’s laws, and a dedication to protecting the American people from emerging national security threats. The current Attorney General, Eric Holder, has repeatedly demonstrated a lack of commitment to enforcing the laws, but more fundamentally, a lack of respect for the constitutional separation of powers. Should my colleagues in the Senate decide to confirm Ms. Lynch as the next Attorney General, I look forward to working collaboratively with her to fully enforce our laws and safeguard our national security.”
10.29.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the release of an internal State Department document outlining a proposal to transport non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola to the United States for treatment. Chairman Goodlatte: “It’s alarming that senior Obama Administration officials so vehemently denied the existence of any plans to transport non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola to the United States for treatment when a leaked State Department document shows that such a proposal indeed exists and was approved by Obama Administration officials. The internal memo shows that this proposal was approved by several people at the State Department, and possibly even by the official leading the Ebola Coordination Unit at the agency. Unfortunately, this lack of transparency is just another example of the Obama Administration trying to hide its actions from the American people. “Secretaries Kerry and Johnson still have not responded to my letter inquiring about this proposal. The Obama Administration must be forthcoming with both Congress and the American people about its proposed plans to bring non-U.S. citizens infected with this deadly disease to the United States for medical care.” Last week, Chairman Goodlatte wrote a letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Department of State Secretary John Kerry regarding recent press reports indicating that the Obama Administration plans to allow foreign nationals infected with Ebola to come to the United States for treatment. The House Judiciary Committee has not yet received a response.
10.21.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) today sent the following letter to Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Department of State Secretary John Kerry regarding recent press reports indicating that the Obama Administration plans to allow foreign nationals infected with Ebola to come to the United States for treatment. “Dear Secretaries Johnson and Kerry, “Press reports have indicated that the Administration is putting together a plan to allow non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola, to enter the United States for treatment. Please provide answers to the following questions by October 25, 2014: 1. Are either of your Departments formulating a plan to allow non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola to enter the U.S. to receive medical treatment? If so, what are the details of the plan? 2. Have employees of either of your Departments engaged in conversations regarding a plan to allow non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola to enter the U.S. to receive medical treatment? 3. Please provide me any and all written memos or other documentation written by employees of your Departments regarding the formulation of a plan to allow non-U.S. citizens infected with Ebola to enter the U.S. to receive medical treatment. “Thank you in advance for your prompt response.” Chairman Goodlatte and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) recently wrote to President Obama calling on him to use the authority granted to him by Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act to temporarily ban foreign nationals who were recently in an Ebola-ravaged country from traveling to the United States.
10.21.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the statement below following the Department of Homeland Security’s announcement that all foreign nationals traveling from Guinea, Liberia, or Sierra Leone to the United States will have to travel through one of five major U.S. airports where additional Ebola screening measures have been deployed. Chairman Goodlatte: “I’m glad that the Obama Administration is showing more concern about the possibility of people infected with Ebola entering the United States and spreading this deadly disease, but the Administration must do more to protect Americans. Obama Administration officials openly admit that these enhanced screening measures would have never detected the disease in Thomas Eric Duncan, a non-U.S. citizen, who later infected two American nurses in Dallas. “President Obama has a real solution at his disposal under current law and can use it at any time to temporarily ban foreign nationals from entering the United States from Ebola-ravaged countries. The vast majority of Americans strongly support such a travel moratorium and I urge the President to take every step possible to protect the American people from danger.” Recently, Chairman Goodlatte and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) wrote to President Barack Obama calling on him to use the authority granted to him by Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act to temporarily ban foreign nationals who were recently in an Ebola-ravaged country from traveling to the United States. The House Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over the Immigration and Nationality Act, which grants the President this authority. In addition, Chairman Goodlatte plans to introduce a resolution calling on the President to implement a temporary travel moratorium. An October 14, 2014, ABC News/Washington Post poll shows that 67% of Americans surveyed said they would support “restricting entry to the United States by people who’ve been in affected countries.”
10.17.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte today sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder expressing concern regarding the drop in the number of prosecutions under Operation Streamline for first-time illegal border crossers. The goal of Operation Streamline is to criminally prosecute individuals who illegally cross the border in order to deter them and others from trying again in the future. Operation Streamline has been one of the most successful programs to decrease illegal entries at our southwest border yet under the Obama Administration prosecutions for first-time border crossers have plummeted. Below is the text of the letter. “Dear Attorney General Holder: “Operation Streamline (OS) has been one of the most successful programs to decrease illegal entries ever initiated along our southwest border. Established in 2005, and subsequently expanded to a number of southwest Border Patrol sectors, OS’s original goal was to establish a “zero tolerance” policy in which virtually all adult border crossers not accompanied by their children were criminally prosecuted, most for the misdemeanor crime of a first illegal entry and the felony crimes of subsequent illegal entry and illegal reentry after having been ordered removed. As former Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano stated, OS “aims to increase the consequences for illegally crossing the border by criminally prosecuting illegal border crossers.” “While many of those convicted only serve short prison sentences (including in some instances for time served at the time of conviction), the deterrent effect has been significant. Former Secretary of Homeland Security Michael Chertoff stated that OS “has an unbelievable return . . . . What we see, both statistically and anecdotally, is that when people who cross the border illegally are brought to face the reality that they are committing a crime, even if it is just a misdemeanor, that has a huge impact on their willingness to try again and on the willingness of others to break the law coming across the border.” And former Attorney General Michael Mukasey stated that OS and similar programs “appear to have had a significant deterrent effect on illegal immigration in places like Del Rio, Texas and Yuma, Arizona, reducing the number of individuals returning illegally to the United States and discouraging others from coming here illegally in the first place.” “The Congressional Research Service has reported that the recidivism rate of repatriated illegal entrants (those re-apprehended in the same fiscal year) is dramatically lower under OS – 10.3% in fiscal year 2012 -- than when aliens are simply returned through expedited removal (16.4%) or voluntary return (27.1%).Partially as a result of OS, apprehensions of unlawful aliens fell dramatically from 2005 to 2013 – particularly in the Yuma, Arizona Border Patrol sector where OS had a zero tolerance policy and apprehensions fell from over 138,000 to slightly more than 6,000. “While resource constraints have prevented all first-time border crossers from being prosecuted, many have been – sending a clear message of deterrence. Unfortunately, fewer and fewer first time crossers are being prosecuted program-wide. It is of great concern, therefore, that the Sheriff of Yuma County, Arizona, has recently reported that the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona will no longer be prosecuting any first-time border crossers without criminal records. If true, this will send exactly the wrong message to potential illegal entrants around the world and exacerbate our current border crisis. Now is the worst possible time to be undermining OS. “In light of these concerns, please provide me with the following information: • In each fiscal year beginning in 2005, the Border Patrol sectors in which OS was operating; • In each fiscal year beginning in 2005 in each federal judicial district containing a Border Patrol sector in which OS was in operation, the number of prosecutions for violation of 8 U.S.C. 1325(a), the number of convictions, and the average sentence length (with each factor broken down by whether the prosecution was for the first commission of a 1325(a) offense or a subsequent commission of an offense); • In each fiscal year beginning in 2005 in each federal judicial district containing a Border Patrol sector in which OS was in operation, the number of Department of Homeland Security referrals for violation of 8 U.S.C. 1325(a) in which the Department of Justice decided not to initiate a prosecution; • In each fiscal year beginning in 2005 in each federal judicial district containing a Border Patrol sector in which OS was in operation, the number of prosecutions for violation of 8 U.S.C. 1326(a), the number of convictions, and the average sentence length; • In each fiscal year beginning in 2005 in each federal judicial district containing a Border Patrol sector in which OS was in operation, the number of Department of Homeland Security referrals for violation of 8 U.S.C. 1326(a) in which the Department of Justice decided not to initiate a prosecution; • On an ongoing basis, update the information requested above each quarter; and • In each fiscal year beginning in 2009, the changes that have been made, if any, to the prosecution guidelines for OS in each federal judicial district containing a Border Patrol sector in which OS was in operation. “I would appreciate your prompt response to these questions.”
10.16.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte sent a letter today to Dr. Tom Frieden, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Jeh Johnson, Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and Anthony Foxx, Secretary of the Department of Transportation, seeking answers on the Obama Administration’s “whole of government” response to the Ebola outbreak. Below is the text of the letter. “Dear Director Frieden, Secretary Johnson, and Secretary Foxx: “I write to share my concern regarding the United States’ ‘whole of government’ response to the Ebola outbreak. While it is important to keep perspective on the outbreak overseas, cases of Ebola now perpetuating in the continental United States is of extreme concern. “To date, no travel restrictions have been placed on individuals traveling to the United States from affected West African countries. In light of this current position, I would appreciate answers to the following questions: “• Why are there so few advanced screening sites in the continental United States to screen international travelers? “• Given that the only domestic acquired cases of Ebola have been in Dallas, Texas, why have we not been screening individuals flying in and out of Dallas, Texas? “• Specifically, what additional steps are being taken to reach out to U.S. hospitals given media reports that the lack of training and/or supplies in Dallas, Texas contributed to the spread of Ebola to additional individuals? “• Why are individuals who have come into contact with an afflicted individual being allowed to fly domestically? Reports that Amber Vinson contacted the CDC prior to flying, but was given the 'okay' to fly are deeply concerning. “• It is my understanding that travel restrictions are only placed on healthcare workers who have cared for Ebola patients if it is determined that safety protocols during that care were not followed. However, with additional cases of Ebola presenting themselves in Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital nurses, are these safety protocols, as a measure for travel safety, being reviewed? “Today, I sent a letter to President Obama urging him to use the authority granted to him in the Immigration and Nationality Act to ‘prohibit foreign nationals who were recently present in an Ebola-ravaged country from entering the United States.’ I reiterate that message to you as well. While reforms to our domestic handling of Ebola in the United States are necessary, and we need to address many concerns, including those I have outlined above, our ‘whole of government’ approach to this situation should include travel restrictions for certain individuals attempting to come to the United States after being in Guinea, Liberia, and/or Sierra Leone. “I look forward to hearing from you on this important matter.” NOTE: Earlier today, Congressman Goodlatte also sent a letter to President Obama calling on him to use the authority granted to him by Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act to temporarily ban foreign nationals who were recently in an Ebola-ravaged country from traveling to the United States.
10.16.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.) today wrote to President Barack Obama calling on him to use the authority granted to him by Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act to temporarily ban foreign nationals who were recently in an Ebola-ravaged country from traveling to the United States. The House Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over the Immigration and Nationality Act, which grants the President this authority. In addition, Chairman Goodlatte plans to introduce a resolution calling on the President to implement a temporary travel moratorium. Below is the text of the letter. “Mr. President, “We write regarding your solemn duty as the President of the United States to take every step possible to protect the American people from danger. Specifically, we urge you to use authority granted to you by Congress in the Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit foreign nationals who were recently present in an Ebola-ravaged country, from entering the United States. “8 U.S.C. 1182(f) states ‘[W]henever the President finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he deems to be appropriate.’ “You utilized this provision in August 2011, ‘to restrict the international travel and to suspend the entry into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of certain persons’ who participated in serious human rights and humanitarian law violations. Preventing Americans from contracting Ebola, which the World Health Organization (WHO) notes ‘has a death rate of up to 90%’ and has already killed at least 4,484 people in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, is every bit as important as preventing human rights abusers from entering the United States. “While Ebola is not transmittable until a victim develops symptoms, the WHO notes that the incubation period can be 42 days or longer and that certain methods of Ebola transmission can continue for as long as seven weeks after a patient’s recovery. Therefore we urge that your use of 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) cover any foreign national who was present in a country with widespread and intense transmission of Ebola within the two months prior to desired travel to the U.S. Such a travel restriction can and should be temporary, with the moratorium lifted when the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, and any other countries with a subsequent outbreak, is controlled. “We have listened with interest to the arguments articulated by officials within the Administration in opposition to a ban on travel from affected countries. Unfortunately, such arguments seem to have little, if any, merit. And a growing number of Americans agree. In fact an October 14, 2014, ABC News/Washington Post poll showed that 67% of Americans surveyed said they would support ‘restricting entry to the United States by people who’ve been in affected countries.’ “Use of 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) is not only reasonable at this point, but is prudent and necessary to help prevent additional Ebola cases in the U.S. It will also help begin to turn around Americans’ large-scale lack of confidence that the Federal government is doing everything it can to protect them from Ebola. “Thank you for your immediate attention to this critical matter.”
10.10.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the statement below regarding the number of unaccompanied alien minors (UAM) and family units apprehended at the Southwest border for Fiscal Year 2014, which was recently released by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Before the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program was implemented in the summer of 2012, the number of UAM apprehended at the border was 6,560 in Fiscal Year 2011. This year, the number of UAM caught at the border surged to 68,541, which is a 945% increase since Fiscal Year 2011. Additionally, the number of family units apprehended at the border jumped from 14,855 last year to 68,445 in Fiscal Year 2014, representing a 361% increase. Chairman Goodlatte: “After six years of refusing to enforce our immigration laws and acting unilaterally to provide administrative amnesty to unlawful immigrants, President Obama has created disorder at our borders. Word has spread to Central America and beyond that our immigration laws are not enforced, which has encouraged hundreds of thousands of people to make the dangerous trek north to illegally cross our Southwest border. It’s not surprising that since the implementation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program the number of minors crossing the border has surged by nearly 1,000%. “The solution to this problem is simple: the President and his Administration must enforce our immigration laws. However, President Obama refuses to take the steps necessary to enforce our laws and end the chaos at the border. Instead he has made the situation worse by promising to take action later this year to change our immigration laws. These proclamations from the White House will only encourage more people to come to the U.S. illegally.” Background: In July, Chairman Goodlatte led a bipartisan delegation to the Rio Grande Valley in Texas to examine this crisis and seek solutions on how best to stop it. During the trip, members of the House Judiciary Committee toured federal facilities and met with those dealing with this problem firsthand at the border, including law enforcement officers and federal officials from the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, and Health and Human Services. Key findings from the trip can be found here. Chairman Goodlatte’s op-ed outlining actions President Obama could take now to end the border crisis can be found here. Additionally, this summer the House of Representatives approved legislation (H.R. 5230) to provide targeted, narrow funding for border security, enforcement of immigration laws, and illegal immigration deterrence through the end of Fiscal Year 2014 in order to meet law enforcement’s immediate needs at the U.S.-Mexico border. The Senate failed to act.
10.10.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the statement below after The Wall Street Journal reported that President Obama is considering plans to override the law and transfer detained terrorists from Guantanamo Bay to the United States. Chairman Goodlatte: “Over the years, President Obama has repeatedly sought to close federal facilities in Guantanamo Bay and bring detained terrorists to the United States but both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have consistently rejected the President’s plan over and over again. Although the law is explicit that the President cannot transport these detained terrorists into the United States, President Obama once again seems willing to ignore the law to achieve his objectives. The President’s pattern of ignoring the law poses a danger not only to our Constitution and individual liberty, but also to national security. At a time when the Islamic State is killing innocent civilians, including Americans, how can the President even justify contemplating such a plan? President Obama has shown that he is willing to sacrifice both the Constitution and the security of the United States for his own agenda.”
10.09.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), and Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.) today sent a letter to Acting Secret Service Director Joseph Clancy seeking answers to over a dozen questions regarding a series of security breaches that occurred at the White House complex and during official travel. The House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the Secret Service’s functions, including its critical role in protecting the President and the White House complex, will hold both public and classified hearings in November to examine ongoing issues at the agency. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, and Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Scott write: “In light of recent events and evident security failures, the House Judiciary Committee has grave concerns about the policies, procedures, and judgment of the United States Secret Service. “As you know, on September 19, 2014, Omar Gonzalez scaled the White House fence, evaded numerous Secret Service officers outside of the White House, and forced his way through the front door armed with a knife. It now appears that Mr. Gonzalez made it into the East Room of the White House, despite initial claims by the Secret Service that he was apprehended just inside the North Portico doors. Additionally, three days earlier, an armed security contractor with a criminal record was allowed on an elevator with the President during a visit to the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta. This apparent security lapse was similarly not disclosed until media reports began to surface. “As members of the Committee of primary jurisdiction over many of the Secret Service’s functions, including its critical role in protecting the President and the White House complex, we are deeply concerned with the Service’s ability to effectively identify, intercept, and disrupt threats to the President of the United States. In order to facilitate our ability to conduct effective oversight over the Service and recent security lapses, please respond to the following questions as soon as possible: 1. Please provide a detailed timeline of the events involving Omar Gonzalez on September 19, 2014, including which Secret Service teams or units were involved. 2. Why did the Service initially report publicly and to Congress that Mr. Gonzalez was stopped and arrested just inside the front door of the White House, given that this is not true? 3. Did the Service follow the protocol(s) it has in place to interdict individuals such as Mr. Gonzalez? If not, why not? 4. What specific steps are the Service and the Department of Homeland Security taking to review and revise its policies and procedures for securing the White House complex in response to the events on September 19, 2014? When will this review be completed? 5. Will any review of the September 19, 2014, events include a review of how information regarding the suspect prior to that date was handled, including information gathered by Secret Service investigators following Mr. Gonzalez’s arrest on July 19, 2014? 6. Do you intend to review the White House’s infrastructure for security risks? Which other agencies or offices must approve any recommended improvements? 7. It has been reported that there have been 16 incidents of unauthorized persons jumping over or attempting to jump over the White House fence in the past five years. Six such incidents have occurred this year alone. What had the Service done prior to September 19, 2014, in response to the recent increase in intruders on White House grounds? 8. Why was the North Portico door to the White House unlocked on a Friday evening? Was the door equipped with an auto-locking mechanism to protect against such incidents? If not, why not? 9. With respect to the incident of September 16, 2014, were the policies and procedures in place at the time followed? If not, why not? 10. What steps is the Service taking to review and revise its policies and procedures for handling third-party security contractors? Specifically, what is your policy for determining when third-parties may be armed while in the proximity of the President or another protected individual? 11. Did the contractor involved in the September 16, 2014, event have a criminal record? Was the Service aware of this prior to the President’s visit? If not, why not? 12. Please describe the process of excluding someone with a criminal record from access to the President. Is this solely a decision for the Service? 13. According to a recent report on the Best Places to Work, the Secret Service ranks 226 out of 300 federal agencies. As one example, it has been reported that the concerns of officers involved in the 2011 shooting incident were not properly heeded. As low morale can often lead to poor performance, what do you intend to do going forward to address this problem generally, and to promote a culture of openness and accountability at all levels of the agency more specifically? “Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We appreciate your prompt response.”
10.09.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the statement below following the remarks made yesterday by Google Chairman Eric Schmidt and Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) that bulk collection of data by the government is undercutting the American economy. Chairman Goodlatte: “I agree with Senator Wyden and the tech community that last year’s national security leaks have had a commercial and financial impact on American technology companies. As I stated when the House overwhelmingly passed the USA Freedom Act in May, American tech companies have experienced a backlash from both American and foreign consumers and they’ve lost a piece of their competitive edge in the global marketplace. The House acted earlier this year to end the bulk collection of data by the government and provide American tech companies new ways to report data concerning government requests for customer information. When the Senate returns in November, it must pass the USA Freedom Act in order to protect Americans’ civil liberties and to ensure that American tech companies can begin to rebuild trust with their customers and flourish in the global economy.” In May 2014, the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), approved the USA Freedom Act. This bipartisan bill, authored by senior members of the Committee, ends bulk collection of data by the government and reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA. Among the bill’s provisions, it allows tech companies to inform their American and foreign customers by publicly reporting national security requests from the government. Following Committee approval, the House of Representatives passed the USA Freedom Act by a vote of 302-121.
10.09.2014	House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the joint statement below following the remarks made yesterday by White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest that President Obama delayed his decision to act unilaterally on immigration until after the November elections because he didn’t want Republicans to win on the issue. “It’s shocking that the White House now openly admits that President Obama is delaying his unilateral actions on immigration until after the November elections simply because of raw politics. Whether before or after the election in November, it is never acceptable for the President to re-write our laws by executive decree – the Constitution does not give him the authority to do so. By taking unilateral action on immigration, President Obama will inject serious constitutional questions into an already heated debate. Such shortsighted actions will undermine the American people’s trust in the President’s commitment to enforcing our immigration laws and will further setback any chance of enacting immigration reform.” Last month, House Judiciary Committee Republicans wrote to President Obama demanding that he disclose to the American people the recommendations he has received for the anticipated executive actions he will take to further dismantle our nation’s immigration laws. To date, the President has failed to respond.
10.06.2014	The United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) today launched “My E-Verify,” which helps prevent identity theft by providing a mechanism for individuals to lock their Social Security numbers so that it cannot be used by another person to get a job. “My E-Verify” is now available in Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, Mississippi, Virginia, and Washington, D.C. and will soon be rolled out to the rest of the country. In June 2013, the House Judiciary Committee approved the Legal Workforce Act (H.R. 1772), authored by Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas). This bipartisan bill discourages illegal immigration by requiring all U.S. employers to check the work eligibility of newly hired employees though the E-Verify system. Additionally, the bill contains a provision requiring USCIS to create a mechanism to allow people to lock their own Social Security numbers for employment purposes. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte applauded the rollout of “My E-Verify” in the statement below: “With today’s launch of ‘My E-Verify,’ Americans now have an easy way to prevent people from using their Social Security numbers to work unlawfully in the United States. This is an important improvement that I have long supported to an already popular and successful program. This update is within USCIS’ authority to make, and I am pleased that USCIS has implemented one of the many good ideas put forth in legislation approved by the House Judiciary Committee. We should continue to build upon the successes of E-Verify and require all U.S. employers to use it to check the work eligibility of their newly hired employees. This would go a long way toward protecting jobs for Americans and legal immigrants and deterring people from coming to the United States illegally.” Created in 1996, E-Verify is a web-based program that checks the Social Security numbers or alien identification numbers of new hires against Social Security Administration and Department of Homeland Security records in order to eliminate fraudulent numbers and help ensure that new hires are genuinely eligible to work in the U.S. The program quickly confirms 99.7 percent of work-eligible employees and takes less than two minutes to use. Today, over 550,000 American employers voluntarily use E-Verify. Outside evaluations have found that the vast majority of employers using E-Verify believe it to be an effective and reliable tool for checking the legal status of their employees.
10.01.2014	Following the resignation of Secret Service Director Julia Pierson, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the statement below: “After several security failures that have undermined Americans’ confidence in the Secret Service’s ability to protect the President, it’s clear that the agency needs a change in leadership. However, many of these failures happened prior to Ms. Pierson’s tenure as director. It’s clear that we need a thorough review of the agency to identify systemic problems and implement solutions to prevent such security lapses from happening again in the future. With that in mind, the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the numerous functions of the Secret Service, including the protection of the President, will hold both public and classified hearings on the agency in November. It is critical that the Secret Service effectively identify, intercept, and disrupt threats to the President of the United States.”
09.30.2014	Yesterday, the President signed a bipartisan bill into law that protects sexual assault victims and helps remove criminals from our streets. The Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2014 (H.R. 4323), introduced by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Congresswoman Karen Bass (D-Calif.), reauthorizes a federal grant program for state and local governments to reduce the backlog of rape kits through 2019. The program was set to expire today. The House of Representatives approved this bill by voice vote on April 7, 2014 and the Senate approved it by unanimous consent earlier this month. Chairman Goodlatte praised the enactment of the Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act in the statement below: “On the eve of a critical program’s expiration, I am pleased that the House bill reauthorizing the Debbie Smith Act has been signed into law so that we can continue to expedite the processing of DNA test kits across the country. Each of these DNA test kits represents a life that has been shattered by the horrors of rape. Sadly, we can’t take away the pain and fear these women have experienced, but we can provide necessary resources used to solve these crimes so that they don’t have to live in fear waiting for their perpetrators to be found and brought to justice. “This federal grant program is aptly named after a brave woman who had the courage to tell her story and advocate tirelessly for other victims of sexual assault. Debbie Smith is a true hero and I am proud that Congress has stood by her and other survivors to ensure that DNA analysis is completed quickly.” The original Debbie Smith Act was introduced by Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.) after rape survivor Debbie Smith testified before Congress in June 2001 about using DNA evidence to solve rape cases. In 1989, Debbie was kidnapped from her home in Williamsburg, Virginia, and dragged into the woods where she was raped. As Debbie notes in her letter to Chairman Goodlatte, the traumatic effect of the assault remained with her and her family for over six years, until her attacker’s DNA sample was finally removed from the state’s backlog and included in the national DNA database. The suspect was immediately linked to her rape, convicted of multiple felonies, and then sentenced to two life terms plus 25 years in prison. The Debbie Smith Act was enacted in 2004 and since then, millions of dollars in federal funding have been appropriated under the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program to process the hundreds of thousands of DNA evidence kits. As of July 2014, the FBI national database included nearly 572,000 forensic profiles from crime scene samples. This information has aided more than 242,000 investigations nationwide, including nearly 9,000 in Virginia alone. Earlier this year, Debbie joined Chairman Goodlatte and others calling on Congress to reauthorize the Debbie Smith Act; click here for photos.
09.25.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement following the announcement that Attorney General Eric Holder will resign. Chairman Goodlatte: “I welcome the news that Eric Holder will step down as Attorney General. From Operation Fast and Furious to his misleading testimony before the House Judiciary Committee regarding the Department’s dealings with members of the media and his refusal to appoint a special counsel to investigate the IRS’ targeting of conservative groups, Mr. Holder has consistently played partisan politics with many of the important issues facing the Justice Department. “I hope that the next Attorney General will take seriously his role as the nation’s top law enforcement officer, working with Congress to ensure that the laws of our land are followed instead of being a roadblock on the path to justice.”
09.22.2014	House Judiciary Committee Republicans today sent a letter to President Barack Obama demanding that he disclose to the American people the recommendations he has received for the anticipated executive actions he will take to further dismantle our nation’s immigration laws. President Obama originally intended to take more actions to curb the enforcement of our immigration laws by the end of this summer but decided to postpone taking these actions until after the November midterm elections. The letter, led by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, is signed by Representatives Howard Coble (R-N.C.), Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Ted Poe (R-Texas), Tom Marino (R-Pa.), George Holding (R-N.C.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Ron DeSantis (R-Fla.), Jason Smith (R-Mo.), Trent Franks (R-Az.), Blake Farenthold (R-Texas), Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Raul Labrador (R-Idaho), Lamar Smith (R-Texas), Steve King (R-Iowa), Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Randy Forbes (R-Va.), Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and Jim Jordan (R-Ohio). Below is the text of the letter. “Dear President Obama, “We write requesting that you disclose information to the American people about the anticipated actions you plan to take by the end of the year to further dismantle our nation’s immigration laws. “In the spring, you asked Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson to perform an “inventory” of the Department of Homeland Security’s current immigration enforcement practices “to see how it can conduct enforcement more humanely within the confines of the law.” Within the last week you indicated that you have begun to receive some of these recommendations. You also indicated that you would wait to issue any executive orders or otherwise take action on the recommendations until after the November elections. “Since you have postponed these executive actions until after the midterm elections, you will have ample time to consider the ideas put forth by Secretary Johnson and others before you make any decisions to fundamentally alter how our immigration laws are enforced, grant immigration benefits to millions of unlawful immigrants, or otherwise modify how our immigration laws are interpreted. You have made clear that you will take such actions without the passage of any legislation by Congress, and therefore without the input of the American public’s representatives. Additionally, it has been widely reported that you and your Administration have been meeting with select interest groups regarding their demands for administrative action on immigration. As a result, the American people have been cut out of a process that could dramatically affect their lives. “Whether it’s now or November, it is never acceptable for the Executive Branch to ignore the Constitution and unilaterally give amnesty to unlawful immigrants. Regarding actions you are planning that you believe would comply with the Constitution, the least the Administration can do is give Americans the opportunity to see the recommendations that you are considering before you take any actions. Rather than attempt to hide these actions from the American people until after the midterm elections, Americans should be given the chance to come to their own conclusions as to the merits of these recommendations. They can then exercise their constitutional right to petition the federal government and let you know their opinions. “We therefore ask that you immediately release to the public all the recommendations that you have received for administrative action – from Secretary Johnson, from Attorney General Holder, and from the interest groups with whom you and your Administration have met. And we ask that you continue to release additional recommendations as you receive them. This could go some way toward repairing the damage to the American political process caused by the secrecy with which your Administration has considered changes to our immigration system.”
09.19.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released a statement today congratulating Warren County on the Avtex deal. He will participate in the Avtex Community Day and Commemoration Ceremony at the former Avtex Fibers Superfund site in Front Royal on Saturday: “Saturday’s Commemoration Ceremony is, without question, a long time coming. Many have worked diligently over the past 25 years to make this a reality, including Front Royal and Warren County government and community leaders that I had the opportunity to work with on this project. I thank them for their dedication. It certainly was not easy, and I know that there were many obstacles to overcome before reaching this day. It is good to know that this property, which was once unusable, is now prepared to serve not only as a prime site for new business, but also as a place for the community to enjoy. I look forward to the redevelopment process and the new economic development and job opportunities that this is anticipated to bring to Warren County.” Background: Following Congressman Frank Wolf’s work for many years to help restore the Avtex site, Congressman Goodlatte worked on behalf of Warren County and Front Royal to navigate federal red tape and see that the stakeholders reached an agreement to redevelop the former Superfund site.
09.18.2014	VIDEO: Goodlatte Speaks on The Jobs for America Act Congressman Goodlatte’s remarks on the House floor in support of H.R. 4, the Jobs for America Act (as prepared): Mr. Speaker, In every state across this country, and most certainly in the Commonwealth of Virginia, there are folks still looking for good, full-time jobs, and businesses who want to hire them but can’t for fear of government imposed regulations that increase expenses. The Administration’s tax, regulate, and spend response to this problem hasn’t worked and it is incumbent upon us to enact necessary reforms to restore the American economy. The legislation we consider today includes many provisions to combat excessive regulations that have already been passed by the House of Representatives and await action in the Senate, including provisions to restore the 40 hour work week; to permanently ban taxation of Internet access; to prevent secret settlement deals between federal bureaucrats and pro-regulatory plaintiffs in lawsuits; to require bureaucrats to consider the costs of regulations to small businesses; to require agencies to adopt the least costly method of implementing the law; and to require federal agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval. We know these provisions will help spur our economy and create jobs. America’s labor force participation rate has essentially remained stagnant for the past several months and job creation and economic growth continue to fall short of what is needed to produce a real and durable recovery in our country. It is imperative that we again take action to pass these common-sense reforms, return discouraged workers to full-time jobs, and restore America to prosperity. I urge the Senate to stop stalling and to join us in this effort. ### HOUSE PASSES THE JOBS FOR AMERICA ACT Today the House of Representatives passed the Jobs for America Act, the House’s bipartisan jobs package comprised of 15 bills that previously passed the House this Congress. Six Judiciary Committee bills were included in the package. Together, these Judiciary Committee bills would place a ban on Internet access taxes, encourage accountability in government by requiring Congressional approval for new major regulations, and reform government by reducing unnecessary red tape. Chairman Goodlatte praised today’s vote by the House of Representatives: “I am pleased that the House passed six Judiciary Committee bills in the jobs package today. America needs these solutions. The effects of excessive, unnecessary regulation and taxes are real for American families who are impacted by high prices, fewer job opportunities and a less competitive American and who feel the government digging deeper and deeper into their pocketbooks. I urge the Senate and President Obama to take action on the jobs package and make these important bills the Law of the Land.” More information about these bills may be found below. H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act: Introduced by Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), this legislation permanently bans state taxes on Internet access and multiple or discriminatory state taxes on e-commerce. Over the past 16 years, Congress has temporarily extended this ban on states taxing Internet access on multiple occasions. The measures have been met with enormous bipartisan support – only five “no” votes were cast in the history of these renewals in the House and Senate. This bill makes this ban permanent. Without this legislation, the ban would end this year. H.R. 2122, the Regulatory Accountability Act: Introduced by Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), this legislation requires federal bureaucrats to think through new regulations better and with more public input and to adopt the least costly method of effectively implementing the law. H.R. 2542, the Regulatory Flexibility Improvements Act: Introduced by Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Subcommittee Chairman Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), this legislation requires federal bureaucrats to better consider and lower adverse impacts on small businesses before they issue new regulations. H.R. 367, the REINS Act: Introduced by Congressman Todd Young (R-Ind.), this legislation requires federal agencies to submit major regulations to Congress for approval and guarantees that no major regulations become effective until Congress approves them. This bill holds federal bureaucrats accountable for imposing burdens on America’s economy and strengthens our system of checks and balances. H.R. 2804, the All Economic Regulations are Transparent Act: Introduced by Congressman George Holding (R-N.C.), this legislation requires bureaucrats to provide more timely, detailed information and greater transparency regarding planned or proposed regulations and prevents new rules from taking effect if they fail to do so. H.R. 1493, the Sunshine for Regulatory Decrees and Settlements Act: Introduced by Congressman Doug Collins (R-Ga.), this legislation prevents secret settlement deals between federal agencies and pro-regulatory plaintiffs that result in new federal regulations for everyone.
09.18.2014	VIDEO: Goodlatte Speaks on American Energy Solutions Congressman Goodlatte’s remarks on the House floor in support of H.R. 2, the American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs and More American Jobs Act (as prepared): Mr. Speaker, Energy is vital to every aspect of American life. Working families, retirees, and businesses large and small are all dependent upon reliable and affordable energy. An unwelcome increase in the electric bill leaves many families no other option but to cut elsewhere. For businesses, higher energy costs mean less money to invest in jobs or expansion. As business costs increase, so does the price of goods down the line, triggering a chain reaction felt throughout the economy. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration’s policies are contributing to the rise in energy costs by discouraging exploration of domestic resources, imposing additional regulatory hurdles on energy creation, and attempting to bypass Congress to implement economically devastating policies like cap and trade. Today, Congress reminds the Obama Administration about what they seem to have forgotten - that America’s economy is intrinsically linked to affordable energy. This bill encourages us to expand energy production. I am particularly pleased that it includes provisions I have worked on for a long time to move forward -- a lease sale off the Virginia coast. This sale will provide necessary energy resources for our nation, while providing a significant boost to the economy of the Commonwealth of Virginia. It also includes other important provisions, like the Judiciary- approved, RAPID Act, which cuts through the government red tape impeding development of our resources. Today’s bill helps to ensure that America is an energy leader, utilizing our resources to strengthen the reliability and affordability of energy for American consumers. During this economic slow-down we must encourage more legislation like the American Energy Solutions for Lower Costs and More American Jobs Act, adopting policies that seek to rebuild our economy and create more jobs. I urge all members to vote for this legislation that ensures our energy security while boosting our economy. ### House Passes Judiciary Committee Bill in Comprehensive Energy Package Today the House of Representatives passed the American Energy Solutions for Lowest Costs and More American Jobs Act, the House’s comprehensive energy package comprised of 14 bills with bipartisan support that previously passed the House this Congress. A Judiciary Committee bill was included in the package, H.R. 2641, the RAPID Act. The RAPID Act recognizes that delay and uncertainty in the review process for new construction permits undermine job creation, wages for hardworking Americans, and economic growth. This bill streamlines the approval process for federally-funded and federally-permitted infrastructure, energy and other construction projects and delivers faster approvals. Chairman Goodlatte: “Unnecessary red tape means fewer jobs for hardworking Americans, higher energy prices and a less competitive America. The RAPID Act, passed today in the House’s comprehensive energy package, sets hard deadlines for federal construction permits, cracks down on prolonged lawsuits, and streamlines the permit approval process. By making these necessary reforms, the RAPID Act acts as a job creator for Americans across the country and opens opportunities for Americans to find work while building our nation’s infrastructure for the future.”
09.17.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte issued the following statement in honor of Constitution Day: “Two hundred twenty-seven years ago on this day, September 17, 1787, the founders of our country signed the United States Constitution that laid the foundation for our freedoms today. “Thanks to the 39 delegates who stood up for freedom and democracy, this document has stood the test of time, and continues to safeguard America by providing the necessary checks and balances for our country hundreds of years later. “This year on Constitution Day, we are concerned whether the President is adhering to his constitutional duty of ‘faithfully executing the laws’ in light of laws he has circumvented or refused to enforce. The Constitution is very clear: it is Congress’ job to write our laws and it is the President’s duty to enforce them. “As an elected representative in Congress, I have taken a solemn oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. Also, as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee that has jurisdiction over issues pertaining to the U.S. Constitution, I have held hearings on this issue and cosponsored a bill that the House passed to stop the President’s power grab and to restore the balance to the separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution. “As we reflect with reverence on the oldest written constitution still in use today, let’s also not forget the dangers of an unchecked executive branch.” Congressman Goodlatte’s Address on Constitution Day
09.17.2014	Following pressure from House Judiciary Committee Republicans, Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson announced today at a congressional hearing that he will not lift a 30-year old regulation banning Libyans from coming to the United States to attend flight school, work in aircraft maintenance or flight operations, or to study or seek training in nuclear science. The prohibition on Libyans from studying nuclear science or training as pilots in the United States was originally put in place in the 1980s after the wave of terrorist incidents involving Libyans. A year ago, the Obama Administration began the process of lifting this longstanding regulation, claiming that the United States’ relationship with Libya has since “normalized.” Last week, the House Judiciary Committee approved in a bipartisan vote the Protecting the Homeland Act (H.R. 5401) – a bill authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Oversight and Government Reform National Security Subcommittee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) – to stop the Obama Administration from lifting this longstanding prohibition. Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy, and Congressman Chaffetz praised Secretary Johnson’s decision in the joint statement below: “We are pleased that Secretary Johnson has chosen common sense over the Obama Administration’s foolish plan, but this should never have been a hard decision to make. Given the ongoing terrorist activity in Libya, there is no reason that the Obama Administration should have ever contemplated lifting a decades-old ban on Libyans coming to our country to train as pilots or nuclear scientists. The fact is that Libya’s government remains unstable today and the country is becoming more dangerous as rival rebel groups battle each other for control of Libya’s cities. It’s necessary that we keep this ban on Libyans in place so that we protect Americans and our national security from threats in Libya. Despite assurances from Secretary Johnson that he won’t lift this ban any time soon, the House plans to move forward with legislation to prevent future Administrations from changing this policy.” Last week, the Air Line Pilots Association International (ALPA), which represents 51,000 pilots who fly for 31 airlines in the U.S. and Canada, expressed concern about the Obama Administration lifting this regulation from the books. In their letter to Chairman Goodlatte, Captain Lee Moak notes the dangerous conditions in Libya and states that “given the political instability in Libya and the transitory nature of the government, ALPA is concerned that information relevant to a background check on Libyan nationals would be unreliable if not entirely unavailable.”
09.16.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte, a member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption, named Patrick and Judy Wheeler of Roanoke the Sixth District of Virginia’s 2014 “Angels in Adoption.” The Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute’s Angels in Adoption Program is designed to celebrate individuals, couples, or organizations from across the nation that have made an extraordinary contribution on behalf of children in need of homes. Members of Congress have the opportunity to honor one nominee from each congressional district per year who is making a difference in the lives of children. “Patrick and Judy Wheeler have a passion for adoption and a true heart for children in need,” said Congressman Goodlatte. “It is my honor to recognize them as this year’s ‘Angels in Adoption.’ Mrs. Wheeler recently said that ‘most people were thinking of retirement, but our hearts are with these children.’ Despite many challenges and long adoption processes, the Wheelers have blessed 11 young children with the loving home and opportunities they deserve. I am thankful for their willingness to bring these children into their family. This selfless act is truly to be commended.” Patrick and Judy Wheeler, who reside in Roanoke, have adopted seven children from China and three from Vietnam as well as one child from the Roanoke area. Eight of their adopted children are cleft affected and the Wheelers have ensured that these children receive the surgeries, treatment, and loving care that they need. The Wheelers also have two biological children and four grandchildren.
09.11.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today in remembrance of the lives lost in the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, and the 2012 attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya: “September 11th is a day that we reflect with profound sadness and reverence upon the lives lost in terrorist attacks against the United States. These are lives that were taken from us all too soon and they will not be forgotten. My prayers are with their families. And yet, in this sadness, there is also a reminder of an intrinsic quality found in Americans – wherever there is tragedy, we see the law enforcement community, first responders, and even strangers on the street coming together to help those in harm’s way, just as we did in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks. “As we mark this somber anniversary, it is a reminder that we must also remain vigilant in the face of renewed threats to our nation. It’s true that this is a different world from the one we knew just 13 years ago. The attacks against our country both at home and abroad have changed our way of life in many ways and many American lives have been lost in the fight against terrorist threats and in the defense of our freedoms. But what has remained steadfast is the resilience of the American people and the truth that this nation will remain a beacon of freedom throughout the globe.”
09.10.2014	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 21-11 the Protecting the Homeland Act (H.R. 5401), a bill authored by Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Oversight and Government Reform National Security Subcommittee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), to stop the Obama Administration from lifting a 30-year prohibition on Libyans coming to the U.S. to attend flight school, to work in aviation maintenance or flight operations, or to study or seek training in nuclear science. In July, the Office of Management and Budget approved a final regulation to lift this decades-old policy. Once Department of Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson signs this regulation, it will become effective unless further action is taken. The Air Line Pilots Association International (ALPA), which represents 51,000 pilots who fly for 31 airlines in the U.S. and Canada, today expressed strong support for H.R. 5401. In their letter to Chairman Goodlatte, Captain Lee Moak notes the dangerous conditions in Libya and states that “given the political instability in Libya and the transitory nature of the government, ALPA is concerned that information relevant to a background check on Libyan nationals would be unreliable if not entirely unavailable.” Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy, and Congressman Chaffetz released the statements below praising today’s approval of this legislation by the House Judiciary Committee. Chairman Goodlatte: “Given the ongoing terrorist activity in Libya, it is unconscionable that the Obama Administration is carelessly forging ahead with its plan to allow Libyans to attend flight school or study nuclear science in the United States. The Obama Administration justifies its plan by claiming that the United States’ relationship with Libya has ‘normalized,’ but it is anything but normal. This summer, Americans working at the U.S. embassy in Tripoli were evacuated due to rival rebel groups battling each other for control of the area. And less than two years ago, the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked by terrorists, leaving four Americans dead. “Lifting this longstanding ban is not in the best interest of the American people and needlessly places our country at risk. I am pleased that the House Judiciary Committee today approved the Protecting the Homeland Act to stop President Obama from implementing this foolish and dangerous plan so that we protect Americans and our national security from threats in Libya.” Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy: “The chief responsibility of government is the security of its people, and as those entrusted to govern, we must be vigilant in fulfilling this duty. Yet, the Administration has not been clear as to why repealing this longstanding rule now, while the situation in Libya is more uncertain and dangerous, will benefit our national security. I am pleased the committee passed our bill, the Protecting the Homeland Act, to stop this policy reversal.” Congressman Chaffetz: “The Obama Administration continues to turn a blind eye to the current situation in Libya. The country is far from normal and remains vulnerable to unchecked terrorist activity. Lifting a decades-old security ban on a country challenged by instability threatens the safety of both countries. The Protecting the Homeland Act will stop the Administration from carelessly lifting this ban. I encourage my colleagues in the House and Senate to swiftly pass this legislation.” Background: The prohibition on Libyans from studying nuclear science or training as pilots in the United States was originally put in place in the 1980s after the wave of terrorist incidents involving Libyans. Not even two years after the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked, which resulted in the deaths of four Americans, the Obama Administration justifies lifting this ban by claiming the United States’ relationship with Libya has “normalized.” However, the terror threat continues and numerous news reports document recent terror-related activities coming from Libya. Recently, the employees at the U.S. embassy in Tripoli were evacuated due to violence between rival militias near the facility. Since then, many foreign governments have closed their embassies in Libya and evacuated staff as the violence has spread throughout the country.
09.08.2014	Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Oversight and Government Reform National Security Subcommittee Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) today introduced the Protecting the Homeland Act (H.R. 5401) to stop the Obama Administration from lifting a longstanding prohibition on Libyans coming to the U.S. to attend flight school, to work in aviation maintenance or flight operations, or to study or seek training in nuclear science. In July, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approved a final regulation to lift this decades-old policy. Once Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson signs this regulation, it will become effective unless further action is taken. The prohibition was originally put in place in the 1980s after the wave of terrorist incidents involving Libyans. Not even two years after the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked, which resulted in the deaths of four Americans, the Obama Administration justifies lifting this ban by claiming the United States’ relationship with Libya has “normalized.” However, the terror threat continues and numerous news reports document recent terror-related activities coming from Libya. Recently, the employees at the U.S. embassy in Tripoli were evacuated due to violence between rival militias near the facility. Since then, many foreign governments have closed their embassies in Libya and evacuated staff as the violence has spread throughout the country. Additionally, it has been reported that Islamist militias stole 11 commercial jetliners last month at the airport in Tripoli, and intelligence agencies have warned that they could be used in terrorist attacks. Chairman Goodlatte, Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy, and Congressman Chaffetz released the statements below following the introduction of their bill to stop the Obama Administration’s policy reversal from taking effect. Chairman Goodlatte: “Given the ongoing terrorist activity in Libya, it is unconscionable that the Obama Administration is carelessly forging ahead with its plan to allow Libyan pilots and nuclear scientists to train in the United States. The Obama Administration justifies its plan by claiming that the United States’ relationship with Libya has ‘normalized,’ but it is anything but normal. This summer, Americans working at the U.S. embassy in Tripoli were evacuated due to rival rebel groups battling each other for control of the area. And less than two years ago, the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked by terrorists, leaving four Americans dead. “Lifting this longstanding ban is not in the best interest of the American people and needlessly places our country at risk. The Protecting the Homeland Act will stop President Obama from implementing this foolish and dangerous plan so that we protect Americans and our national security from threats in Libya.” Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy: “Considering the deteriorating situation in Libya, it is hard to understand why DHS is moving ahead with repealing this 30-year old rule. We still have not heard from the Administration why this policy is going to improve national security. Is post-revolutionary Libya secure enough to change the rules? Why now? This is a risk to our national security and compels us to act. Our legislation would codify the current regulation and prevent the Administration from unilaterally carrying out this change.” Congressman Chaffetz: “Libya is in chaos. Violent threats in the region continue to grow. Even our embassy in Tripoli was evacuated due to militia violence close to the compound. Lifting the ban to allow Libyans to come to the U.S. to train in aviation and nuclear sciences is not only bad policy, but it threatens the safety of this country. I appreciate Chairmen Goodlatte and Gowdy for their leadership on this important issue.” Text of the Protecting the Homeland Act can be found here. The House Judiciary Committee will markup this legislation on Wednesday.
08.29.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson demanding answers about changes made to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that encourage fraud and abuse, and information about the scope of the program. Earlier this summer, Obama Administration officials quietly made several changes to DACA, including weakening the educational requirements and stating that for any documentary evidence provided by an applicant to meet DACA requirements, officials “may verify information,” as opposed to actually verifying the veracity of the documents. Since USCIS is not regularly verifying the validity of the documentary evidence provided to it, Chairman Goodlatte and Senator Grassley write that “applicants will undoubtedly take advantage of this fraud loophole.” They further state that “the American people deserve to understand why their own government would be encouraging fraud and potentially even helping some who want to do us harm game the system in order to do so.” In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte and Senator Grassley ask 25 detailed questions about the DACA program, including the number of applications that have been approved, rejected, and denied as well as information about what immigration benefits DACA applicants have received. Of particular importance is obtaining information on the individuals who received DACA but later had the benefit terminated. Additionally, Chairman Goodlatte and Senator Grassley ask if gang members have benefited from DACA and if taxpayer dollars are being used to cover the cost of the program. To read the letter, click here. Changes to the DACA program can be found on USCIS’ website in the FAQ section.
08.29.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released a statement today announcing an agreement that will bring WHSV back to Comcast customers in Page County. Last month, Congressman Goodlatte announced a similar agreement that will allow DirectTV customers in Page County to receive WHSV content. “This week I learned that Comcast will once again carry the signal of WHSV in Page County. Starting on October 29, customers should be able to view local content from the Harrisonburg station. This is a positive development for Page County customers. I have heard from many constituents regarding this issue, and I am pleased that this agreement has moved forward. I thank both companies for their willingness to resolve this issue. I hope to continue working with other carriers to ensure that local television content is available for viewers in the Sixth District.”
08.13.2014	The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) recently approved a final regulation to lift a longstanding prohibition on Libyans coming to the U.S. to attend flight school, to work in aviation maintenance or flight operations, or to study or seek training in nuclear science. The final regulation has been approved by OMB and can be signed by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson. The prohibition was originally put in place in the 1980s after the wave of terrorist incidents involving Libyans. Not even two years after the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked, which resulted in the deaths of four Americans, the Obama Administration justifies lifting this ban by claiming the United States’ relationship with Libya has since improved. However, the terror threat continues and numerous news reports document recent terror-related activities coming from Libya. Recently, the employees at the U.S. embassy in Tripoli were evacuated due to violence between rival militias near the facility. Since then, many foreign governments have closed their embassies in Libya and evacuated staff as the violence has spread throughout the country. Earlier this year, the House Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Immigration and Border Security and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s Subcommittee on National Security held a joint hearing on this issue. Mr. Alan Bersin, who testified on behalf of DHS, promised to provide documents that are required under the regulation’s review process to the House Judiciary Committee. However, these documents were never provided to the Committee. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Immigration and Border Security Subcommittee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) issued the statements below criticizing the Administration’s policy reversal. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Obama Administration is turning a blind eye to real terrorist threats that exist in Libya today by carelessly forging ahead with its plan to allow Libyan pilots and nuclear scientists to study in the United States. Just weeks ago, Americans working at the U.S. embassy in Tripoli were evacuated due to rival rebel groups battling each other for control of the area. And less than two years ago, the U.S. consulate in Benghazi was attacked by terrorists, leaving four Americans killed. “The House Judiciary Committee has repeatedly sought information about the Administration’s policy reversal but political appointees at the Department of Homeland Security have stonewalled the Committee’s requests and have not articulated why it is in Americans’ best interests to change policy. Given the ongoing volatility in Libya, it is unconscionable and completely irresponsible that the Administration plans to lift a longstanding policy that protects Americans and our national security from threats in the region. I urge Secretary Johnson to stop this dangerous plan from taking effect.” Subcommittee Chairman Gowdy: “The burden of proof for advocating a change in the status quo lies with the Administration. Is post-revolutionary Libya secure enough to change the rules? Why now? What evidence does the Administration have to assert the relationship between Libya and the US has indeed normalized? It is extremely concerning that DHS is moving forward with these plans, but has not provided information on the policy change despite repeated requests from Members.” Congressman Chaffetz: “It is unbelievable that this Administration is willing to put Americans in harm’s way by lifting a decades-old security ban on a country challenged by instability. This makes no sense. None. Recent events – such as the 2012 attack on our U.S. Consulate in Benghazi – do not indicate a nation where things have been ‘normalized.’ Rather they seem to be ingredients of a failed state in the making. Training Libyans in nuclear sciences and aviation maintenance overseas can be an effective alternative. I encourage DHS to consider options that ensure the safety and prosperity of both countries involved.”
08.01.2014	The House of Representatives today approved legislation (H.R. 5230) by a vote of 223-189 to provide targeted, narrow funding for border security, enforcement of immigration laws, and illegal immigration deterrence through the end of Fiscal Year 2014 in order to meet law enforcement’s immediate needs at the U.S.-Mexico border. The bill is paid for through reductions of existing funds within federal agencies and will result in no new or additional spending of taxpayer dollars. The bill also includes changes to a 2008 law so that unaccompanied alien minors who do not have a credible fear of persecution or have not been trafficked can be sent home expeditiously. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the statement below following House passage of the bill. Chairman Goodlatte: “The crisis at our southern border is a disaster of President Obama’s own making. The Obama Administration’s lax immigration enforcement policies have given confidence to parents who are in the U.S. illegally that they can stay and now they are finding ways to bring their children, who are still in Central America, to the United States unlawfully. Although President Obama has many tools at his disposal to stop this surge at the border, he refuses to use them and instead proposes to make the situation worse by taking more unilateral actions to stop the enforcement of our immigration laws. “Since President Obama won’t take the actions needed to quell illegal immigration at our border, I am pleased the House acted today to provide law enforcement agents on the ground targeted resources to assist them in doing their job of securing the border and enforcing our immigration laws. While the bill is not perfect, it does provide law enforcement many things they have requested. For example, while I was in the Rio Grande Valley earlier this month, Border Patrol agents cited environmental restrictions that bar access to federal lands as a significant stumbling block to securing the border. The House-passed bill prohibits the Administration from preventing Border Patrol access to federal lands so that they can stop drug traffickers, human smugglers, and unlawful immigrants from exploiting these gaps along the border. It also corrects a law that has exacerbated this crisis to ensure all unaccompanied minors can be sent back to their home countries safely and quickly. “While the House acted today to provide targeted and narrow funding to meet urgent needs at our southern border, it is ultimately up to President Obama to end this crisis by reversing his policies that created it.” Background: Earlier this month, Chairman Goodlatte led a bipartisan delegation to the Rio Grande Valley in Texas to examine this crisis and seek solutions on how best to stop it. During the trip, members of the House Judiciary Committee toured federal facilities and met with those dealing with this problem firsthand at the border, including law enforcement officers and federal officials from the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, and Health and Human Services. Key findings from the trip can be found here. Chairman Goodlatte’s op-ed outlining actions President Obama could take now to end the border crisis can be found here.
08.01.2014	The House of Representatives today approved legislation (H.R. 5272) by a vote of 216-192 to ensure President Obama cannot take sweeping unilateral actions to shield entire categories of deportable aliens from removal. Specifically, the bill effectively prevents the Administration from using any taxpayer dollars to: approve new applications under the “Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals” (DACA) program or any similar memorandum or policy; authorize a new deferred action program for any class of aliens; and authorize work permits for unlawful immigrants. In June 2012, the Obama Administration created the DACA program to grant certain unlawful immigrants a two-year legal status and work authorization. As of March 2014, over 550,000 unlawful immigrants have been approved under DACA and only 20,000 have been denied. President Obama has threatened to take more unilateral actions to stop immigration enforcement this year. Since the implementation of DACA, the number of unaccompanied alien minors seeking to enter the U.S. illegally has risen dramatically. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Office of Immigration Statistics estimates that the illegal migration of minors will grow from 6,500 in FY 2011 to an estimated 142,000 in 2015. DHS estimates it will apprehend 90,000 unaccompanied alien minors in FY 2014, representing a 1,381% increase since 2011. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the statement below following House passage of the bill. Chairman Goodlatte: “Throughout his presidency, President Obama has used his pen and his phone to effectively stop the enforcement of our immigration laws and shield entire categories of unlawful immigrants from removal. As a result of President Obama’s unilateral actions, word has spread around the world that our immigration laws are not enforced, which has enticed tens of thousands of kids, teenagers, and families from Central America to come to the U.S. illegally with the hope of staying here. Rather than take the actions needed to stop the crisis he created, President Obama proposes to take more unilateral actions this year to stop immigration enforcement. Such actions will only encourage more people to make the dangerous trek north. It’s clear that immigration enforcement is key to ending the crisis at the border and preventing similar situations in the future. “While there are varying opinions on how to improve our immigration system, the Constitution grants Congress, not the President, the power to write our immigration laws. The President does not have the authority to amend, suspend, and rewrite our immigration laws on his own terms. Today’s vote in the House sends the strong and clear message to President Obama that Americans’ elected representatives do not approve of his abuse of power. I urge the Senate to put politics aside and stand by our Constitution by supporting this legislation.”
07.31.2014	Today, Congressman Bob Goodlatte, joined by Congressmen H. Morgan Griffith and Robert Hurt, sent a letter to Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe requesting the United States Postal Service to reconsider the proposed closure of the Roanoke Processing and Distribution Center. The letter also expressed concerns about the effect of this proposed closure on service for rural constituents. If the Roanoke facility closes, Southwest, Western, and Central Virginia will be without a mail processing center. A PDF version of the letter is available here. Text of the letter is below: The Hon. Patrick Donahoe Postmaster General United States Postal Service 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20260 Dear Mr. Donahoe, We are writing to express our concern about the proposed closure of the Roanoke, Virginia Processing and Distribution Center. On June 30, 2014, the Postal Service announced its intention to move forward with its network rationalization of mail processing operations plan and placed 82 Postal sites on its list of facilities to be closed or consolidated. The Roanoke Processing and Distribution Center was included on this list and its operations scheduled to be consolidated with those of a similar facility in Greensboro, North Carolina. We understand that the Postal Service must find ways in which to improve its current and future financial condition and that the financial problems now facing the Postal Service warrant concern. However, we do not believe the closure of the Roanoke facility will bring about a favorable result for the Postal Service’s financial situation. The closure of this facility will bring about the end of Overnight First-Class mail delivery by the Postal Service to the area, leaving local businesses with no choice but to choose other vendors to serve their shipping needs. This loss in revenue will hardly prove beneficial to the Postal Service and will likely serve as an impetus to drive even more customers toward private shipping companies. In addition, we are concerned about the effect of this closure upon our most rural constituents. Unlike those in urban areas, these individuals will not have the ability to send and receive First-Class mail under the same time frame and do not have access to competitors who could ensure timely delivery, and therefore will be unfairly impacted by this plan. Furthermore, the whole of Central, Western, and Southwest Virginia will be devoid of reliable mail processing under this closure since the Lynchburg, Virginia, Bristol, Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, and Bluefield, West Virginia facilities are now closed. Lastly, we are concerned about the ability of the Greensboro facility to process and distribute the amount of mail that will be required of it following this closure. Considering the large volume of letter and package mail currently processed by the Roanoke center, we find it doubtful that the Greensboro facility will be able to adequately manage such an addition to its present processing and distribution responsibilities. It is for these reasons that we respectfully ask that you reconsider your present course of action and find other ways in which to address the fiscal problems facing the Postal Service. We await your prompt reply.
07.30.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today after voting in support of the Conference Report on the Veterans Access, Choice and Accountability Act of 2014, which must also be approved by the Senate before heading to the White House: “Our veterans have sacrificed greatly to serve this nation. These men and women who have fought in defense of freedom deserve a VA system that actually works. Under the legislation approved today, if a veteran cannot get an appointment at their local VA facility in a timely manner, or lives more than 40 miles away from the nearest VA medical facility, they can seek private care. It establishes a Congressional Commission on Care to further evaluate the standards of care at VA facilities as well. The bill would also provide more accountability by giving the Department of Veterans Affairs greater authority to fire senior employees who have failed to serve patients. “The substantial delay in service experienced by veterans across the nation is completely unacceptable. We cannot turn back time to make up for this lapse of care; however, we can move forward today with legislation that will help improve conditions now and in the future. I am pleased that the House and Senate have come together in support of this bipartisan agreement to ensure better access to care for our veterans. Thank you to our veterans for their service and sacrifice.”
07.30.2014	By a vote of 225-201, the House of Representatives today approved H.Res. 676, a resolution authorizing the House to enter into litigation against President Obama’s failure to faithfully execute the laws. Specifically, the lawsuit will challenge the two instances in which President Obama unilaterally extended the deadline to implement the employer mandate in his signature healthcare law. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte praised the passage of the resolution in the statement below. Chairman Goodlatte: “The Constitution is very clear: it is Congress’ job to write our laws and it is the President’s duty to enforce them. However, President Obama treats our laws as mere guidelines, picking and choosing among them which to enforce, which to ignore, and which to effectively rewrite. As President Obama’s signature healthcare law has proved to be unworkable and unpopular, he unilaterally delayed the implementation of the employer mandate until at least after the next federal elections. While I oppose Obamacare and support its repeal, President Obama does not have the authority to strike and rewrite the law’s mandates on his own. “President Obama’s pattern of waiving, amending, and suspending our laws violates the Constitution and is devastating to political accountability in our Republic. If the President is allowed to change laws by himself, he and future presidents can be expected to change more and more laws that impact the rights and obligations of all Americans. As Americans’ elected representatives in Congress, we have taken a solemn oath to uphold and defend the Constitution. Today, the House has kept this promise to the American people by authorizing litigation to restore political accountability and enforce the rule of law. The stakes of inaction are high and we must do all we can to preserve the separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution.” Background on Executive Overreach: Earlier this year, the House approved in a bipartisan vote of 233-181 the Enforce the Law Act (H.R. 4138), a carefully crafted bill to rein in the growing problem of executive overreach and restore balance to the separation of powers enshrined in our Constitution. The Enforce the Law Act, introduced by Representatives Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, and Representative Jim Gerlach (R-Pa.), puts a procedure in place to permit the House, or the Senate, to authorize a lawsuit against the Executive Branch for failure to faithfully execute the laws. Since the Senate has failed to consider this legislation, the House passed a resolution today to challenge President Obama’s executive overreach in court. A full summary of the Enforce the Law Act can be found here and more on executive overreach can be found here.
07.29.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released a statement today following the passing of former Sixth District Congressman M. Caldwell Butler of Roanoke at age 89: “Maryellen and I offer our sincere condolences to the Butler family. They are in our thoughts and prayers during this difficult time. It was a great honor to know, and have the privilege of working for, a man like Caldwell Butler. Right out of law school, I served as his District Office Manager from 1977-1979 and learned a great deal from him then and over the years, and his guidance and wisdom will be missed by me and many others. He is remembered for many things, but none more than his service on the House Judiciary Committee at a difficult time in our nation’s history. He was a strong voice and a sharp legal mind on the Committee and acted with integrity during the Watergate investigation and impeachment proceedings, which ended with the resignation of former President Richard Nixon. “Mr. Butler was a public servant in the truest sense of the word. He has given immeasurably to the Roanoke community, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and our nation. Working for Mr. Butler, I also witnessed first-hand his love and affection for his wife, June, and their four young sons. That affection was laced with humor. It was not unusual for Mr. Butler to answer a telephone call with ‘Butler's Home for Boys!’ Humor dotted his speeches, as well. His sharp wit often resonated with listeners a minute or more after the line was delivered. His willingness to see the humor in what might otherwise be a difficult situation endeared him to his constituents and staffers alike. “His lifetime of contributions to the betterment of our nation, the Sixth District, and the Roanoke community will surely not be forgotten.” Caldwell Butler was a Roanoke native. He attended Roanoke public schools, received his undergraduate degree at the University of Richmond and his law degree from the University of Virginia. After being admitted to the Virginia Bar in 1950, he commenced practice in Roanoke. He also served in the United States Navy. Mr. Butler was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates from Roanoke, 1962-1971, and served as minority leader from 1966-1971. He was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1972, in a special election, and served there until 1983. Upon retiring from Congress, he resumed his law practice in Roanoke. His wife of 64 years, June Nolde Butler, passed away one month ago on June 28, 2014. At this morning’s House Judiciary Committee hearing, Congressman Goodlatte paused to honor the memory of Congressman Butler – Click here.
07.25.2014	The House on Friday unanimously passed bipartisan legislation that would restore the ability of consumers to more easily transfer their cell phones to other wireless carriers, just one week after the Senate approved the same measure. Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) and Ranking Member Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) coordinated with House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Ranking Member John Conyers Jr. (D-Mich.) on the issue. The lawmakers praised Congress’s action to pass the pro-consumer bill, which now goes to the White House for signature. The legislation approved by the House today, which the Senate unanimously approved last week, reinstates a 2010 rulemaking by the Librarian of Congress so that consumers can transfer, or “unlock,” their cell phones without running afoul of copyright laws. It also directs the Librarian of Congress to consider whether other wireless devices, like tablets, should be eligible for unlocking. The chairmen and ranking members of the Senate and House Judiciary Committees began working together on the issue last year after more than 100,000 consumers signed a “We the People” petition calling for a change in cell phone unlocking law. “I thank the House for moving so quickly on the bill we passed in the Senate last week and for working in a bipartisan way to support consumers. The bipartisan Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act puts consumers first, promotes competition in the wireless phone marketplace, and encourages continued use of existing devices,” Leahy said. “Once the President signs this bill into law, consumers will be able to more easily use their existing cell phones on the wireless carrier of their choice.” “With today’s House passage of the bipartisan Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act, this important legislation is headed to the President for his signature,” Goodlatte said. “This law will protect consumer choice by allowing flexibility when it comes to choosing a wireless carrier. This is something that Americans have been asking for and I am pleased that we were able to work together to ensure the swift passage of legislation restoring the exemption that allowed consumers to unlock their cell phones.” “The cell phone unlocking bill has a direct impact on Americans as we become more reliant on our wireless devices. This bipartisan bill is pro-consumer and pro-competition and allows for greater ease in the portability of devices. It will provide greater competition and more consumer choice,” Grassley said. “I appreciate the House’s quick action and look forward to the President signing this bipartisan bill.” “House passage of the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act now ensures this important bipartisan legislation will be signed into law without further delay and consumers can engage in the phone marketplace flexibly,” Conyers said. “During these tough economic times, consumers deserve to have options in what carriers they choose and what phones they want to use. I applaud the truly bipartisan efforts of both the Senate and House Judiciary Committees in getting this bill to the President’s desk.” An outline of the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act can be found here, and text of legislation can be found online.
07.25.2014	Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Steve Womack (R-AR) released the following statement today in response to comments made by White House advisor John Podesta regarding the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS): “Recent comments by a White House advisor implying a future increase in the ethanol mandate run counter to the position expressed by a majority of the House of Representatives. The EPA’s proposal for 2014, which included a reduction in the amount of ethanol blended into the fuel supply, was a positive step forward and acknowledged that the mandate is unworkable, detrimental to the environment, and price distorting to feedstock industries throughout the country. If these comments accurately represent the administration’s intentions, this would be a significant step backwards for American consumers and businesses. We urge EPA Administrator McCarthy and the Obama Administration to carefully consider the concerns of a majority of House lawmakers and take action to reduce the burden of the RFS for 2014.” 218+ House Members have either signed onto a letter or a bill calling for reform of the Renewable Fuel Standard.
07.23.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte will host a Sixth District Women’s Conference in Roanoke on August 1, 2014. Attendees will hear from leaders in government, business, health care, law, and education on a variety of topics including leadership, jobs, economic development, and human trafficking. Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-Mo.) will be the keynote speaker. This event is free and open to the public. Goodlatte: “During my travels around the Sixth District, I have had the distinct opportunity to meet many inspiring women. Whether they are a CEO, a teacher, an elected official, a doctor, a stay-at-home mom, a soldier, or a coach, I know that without their contributions our economy and communities in the Sixth District and throughout the nation would falter. I hope that this conference will be a positive opportunity for women in the Sixth District to engage with others, access valuable resources, and hear more from our speakers about some of the major issues facing our nation today. I am honored to have Congresswoman Ann Wagner as the keynote speaker. She is a tireless advocate in the fight against human trafficking, a mother of three, and a public servant. I look forward to hearing her message.” DETAILS: Friday, August 1, 2014 Resource Fair: 8:00am – 9:00am Program: 9:00am – 12:00pm LOCATION: Virginia Western Community College Whitman Theater 3099 Colonial Avenue SW Roanoke, Virginia 24015 REGISTRATION: Those interested in attending can register in advance online or by calling Congressman Goodlatte’s Roanoke office at 540-857-2672. Additionally, attendees can register in person upon arrival at the event. Questions? Call Congressman Goodlatte’s Roanoke Office at 540-857-2672 or visit Goodlatte.House.Gov. FOR MEDIA: Local media is invited to attend. Please RSVP to Beth Breeding at beth.breeding@mail.house.gov or 202-225-5431.
07.18.2014	The House Judiciary Committee has obtained information from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) that shows 65% of unaccompanied alien minors’ asylum applications have been immediately approved by asylum officers in Fiscal Year 2014. And this is just the first bite of the apple. Many more cases can be approved later. Where an asylum officer does not approve the application, it is then referred to an immigration judge where the applicant can try again. If that fails, they can continue to appeal their case. Once individuals are granted asylum, they have access to all major federal welfare programs. Asylum approval rates overall have increased dramatically in recent years. Approval rates by asylum officers have increased from 28% in 2007 to 46% in 2013 and approval rates by immigration judges in affirmative cases have increased from 51% in 2007 to 74% in 2013. Combining both of these approval rates, the vast majority of aliens who affirmatively seek asylum are now successful in their claims. This does not even take into account appeals to the Board of Immigration Appeals or federal courts. At the same time, an internal Department of Homeland Security report shows that at least 70% of asylum cases contain proven or possible fraud. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the statement below on this new information. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s refusal to crack down on rampant asylum fraud is one of the many reasons we are witnessing a surge of Central Americans seeking to enter the U.S. illegally at the border. New data showing that the vast majority of Central Americans’ asylum claims are immediately approved will only worsen the situation along our southern border by encouraging more to come and take advantage of the situation. Our asylum laws are in place to help individuals who are facing truly serious persecution in their countries. However, while I was in the Rio Grande Valley earlier this month, law enforcement officials on the ground said that the vast majority of Central Americans arriving at our border come to meet up with another family member who is already in the United States illegally. “President Obama has many tools at his disposal to stop this border crisis, including cracking down on fraudulent asylum claims and implementing tougher standards for preliminary asylum screenings. Unfortunately, he refuses to use these tools and instead makes the situation worse by refusing to enforce our immigration laws.” Additional Background: Earlier this month, Chairman Goodlatte led a bipartisan delegation to the Rio Grande Valley in Texas to examine this crisis and seek solutions on how best to stop it. During the trip, members of the House Judiciary Committee toured federal facilities and met with those dealing with this problem firsthand at the border, including law enforcement officers and federal officials from the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, and Health and Human Services. Key findings from the trip can be found here. Yesterday, Chairman Goodlatte and Congressman Jason Chaffetz introduced the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act, which stops the border crisis by ending many of President Obama’s policies that have caused the crisis and making targeted changes to current laws that have exacerbated the crisis.
07.17.2014	Since President Obama has refused to take actions to stop illegal crossings at our southern border, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) joined Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) today to introduce a bill to stop the surge of children, teenagers, and families from Central America seeking to enter the United States illegally. The Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act (H.R. 5137) ends many of the Obama Administration’s policies that encourage Central Americans to come to the United States, such as weak standards for asylum claims that enable the Administration’s rubberstamping of fraudulent applications and policies that prevent Border Patrol agents from accessing federal lands along the border. Additionally, the bill makes targeted changes to current law, which has worsened the crisis at the border. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s lax immigration enforcement and administrative legalization programs have encouraged tens of thousands of Central Americans to make the dangerous journey to the United States with the hope of benefiting from the situation. Obama Administration officials claim that violence is the root cause of this surge but an internal Department of Homeland Security memo shows that 95% of those arriving at our border are coming because they think they will get a free pass to stay. And law enforcement agents on the ground say that the majority of these minors are seeking to join up with a family member who is already in the U.S. illegally. This crisis is a disaster of President Obama’s own making and threatens both national security and the rule of law. “Although President Obama has many tools at his disposal to stop this surge at the border, he refuses to use them. Since President Obama won’t take actions to quell this activity, the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act stops many of the Administration’s policies that have caused this crisis, such as exploiting weak asylum standards to approve baseless claims and stringent environmental policies that prevent Border Patrol agents from doing their job of securing the border. Additionally, the bill reforms current law to make sure we get these unaccompanied minors home safely and quickly. We must swiftly take action to end this crisis—children’s lives are at stake, and so is the integrity of our immigration system.” Original cosponsors of the bill include Reps. Lamar Smith (R-Texas) and Steve Chabot (R-Ohio). Key components of the Asylum Reform and Border Protection Act: Fast-tracks the removal of unaccompanied alien minors: Under the bill, all unaccompanied alien minors will be placed in expedited removal proceedings so they can be almost immediately returned home, unless they have a legitimate credible fear of persecution in their home country. Under current law, the Department of Homeland Security is unable to put Central American minors in expedited removal proceedings. As a result, they are released into our communities and are told to appear before an immigration judge years later. Many of them never show up for their hearing. Makes sure minors are returned home safely: The bill provides that the Secretary of State shall negotiate agreements with other countries regarding the safe repatriation of minors, just as the Secretary does now for countries contiguous to the U.S. Implements tougher standards for “credible fear” claims: In order to evade expedited removal proceedings, family units caught along the border or at ports of entry often claim a “credible fear” of persecution in their home countries and seek a hearing before an immigration judge. While awaiting the hearing, they are released into the U.S. and receive work authorization while their case is pending. The Obama Administration granted approximately 92% of all “credible fear” cases decided on the merits in Fiscal Year 2013, many of which were fraudulent and baseless. In fact, “credible fear” claims have increased 586% from 2007 to 2013 as word has spread about the rubberstamping of applications. The bill tightens the “credible fear” standard to weed out baseless claims. It also tightens the standard for release from detention under parole authority so that the Obama Administration doesn’t automatically release them before their claims are proved legitimate. Cracks down on asylum fraud: Under the bill, unaccompanied alien minors will not have preferred access to asylum that is not available to others. To reduce fraud, they are required to apply for asylum within a year of entry into the U.S. and are placed in removal proceedings. Protects our communities from gang members: The bill makes members of violent criminal gangs inadmissible to the United States and ineligible for asylum so that unaccompanied alien minor gang members can be more easily removed. Gives Border Patrol access to federal lands: Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley sector cite restrictions that bar access to federal lands as a significant stumbling block to securing the border. The Departments of Interior and Agriculture currently have rules that prevent Border Patrol agents from accessing federal lands near the border under the guise of environmental preservation. As a result, federal lands along the border provide drug traffickers, human smugglers, and unlawful immigrants effective routes and hiding places where Border Patrol agents cannot reach them. The bill contains language from Rep. Rob Bishop’s legislation to stop this foolish policy and give Border Patrol access to federal lands along the border. Protects American taxpayers: The Obama Administration wants American taxpayers to foot the bill for lawyers for unaccompanied alien minors in removal proceedings. While the law currently prohibits taxpayer dollars being used to pay for lawyers for unlawful immigrants, the bill makes this prohibition even more explicit to stop the Administration’s plan. Provides additional immigration judges and ICE prosecutors: The bill provides a temporary allotment of immigration judges and ICE prosecutors in order to deal with the surge at the border.
07.16.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today announcing an agreement that will allow DirectTV customers in Page County to receive WHSV content. Currently, Page County customers can only receive ABC content from WJLA in Washington, D.C. Congressman Goodlatte has been working tirelessly to ensure the availability of local channels for satellite subscribers in the Sixth District. “I am pleased to announce that DirectTV customers in Page County will soon be able to receive WHSV. Many constituents in Page County have asked me to help ensure they can access the local ABC station in Harrisonburg instead of the Washington, D.C. station they currently receive. Last week, I held a meeting to bring together the involved parties on behalf of my constituents. They all agreed that Page County residents should be able to receive WHSV on DirecTV. It is anticipated that folks in Page County will be able to receive this content in the coming months. This is the perfect example of companies working together on behalf of their customers, and I am happy to have helped facilitate these conversations. I also want to thank WHSV for their willingness to work with me to ensure that my Page County constituents can receive their channel. Now that DirectTV has taken this important step, I will continue working with other cable and satellite carriers to bring WHSV to Page County viewers.”
07.15.2014	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (PITFA), by a voice vote. This broadly bipartisan legislation permanently bans states from taxing Internet access or placing multiple or discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. Original legislation that temporarily banned Internet access taxes, the Internet Tax Freedom Act (ITFA), was first enacted in 1998 and extended three times with enormous bipartisan support. In the history of the bill’s extensions, only five “no” votes were ever cast in the House and Senate. The most recent extension of ITFA expires on November 1, 2014. By striking the 2014 expiration date, PITFA makes the ban on Internet access taxes permanent instead of requiring reauthorization every few years. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Congresswoman Anna Eshoo (D-Calif.), Subcommittee on Regulatory Reform, Commercial and Antitrust Law Chairman Spencer Bachus (R-Ala.), Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) praised the House passage of PITFA in the following joint statement: “We applaud the passage of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act today in the House. PITFA is a necessary measure to keep Internet access free of taxation. This permanent ban is crucial for protecting access and opportunity for Americans in our growing digital economy. We hope that the Senate promptly acts on this vital legislation before the November 1st deadline.”
07.10.2014	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by voice vote the Satellite Television Access Reauthorization Act (H.R. 5036), a bipartisan bill authored by Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Howard Coble (R-N.C.) to extend, for five years, the expiring provisions of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA) of 2010 which governs satellite companies’ ability to retransmit broadcast television. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Ranking Member John Conyers (D- Mich.), Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Howard Coble (R-N.C.), and Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.) praised the Committee’s approval of this legislation in the joint statement below. “Today’s passage of the Satellite Television Access Reauthorization Act by the House Judiciary Committee ensures that our constituents have full access to network programming no matter where they live for another five years. Our constituents depend upon this license for entertainment, news, and sports. We look forward to working with our colleagues on the Energy and Commerce Committee and in the Senate to ensure that legislation to protect satellite consumers is in place before the December 31, 2014, expiration of STELA.”
07.09.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) joined Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet Subcommittee Chairman Howard Coble (R-N.C.) today in introducing the Satellite Television Access Reauthorization Act of 2014 (H.R. 5036) to extend the expiring provisions of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA) of 2010 which governs satellite companies’ ability to retransmit broadcast television. The House Judiciary Committee is scheduled to mark-up H.R. 5036 on Thursday, July 10, 2014. There are three statutory licenses that enable copyrighted video content to be made available without permission, two of which are permanent as a matter of law and one that will expire on December 31, 2014, unless renewed by Congress. First enacted in 1988 and renewed most recently in 2010 with the passage of STELA, the expiring statutory license permits a satellite carrier to retransmit distant over-the-air television broadcast stations to its subscribers for private home viewing. Without this license, satellite companies would need to negotiate with the limited number of distant network stations for carriage rights in order to deliver that distant content to its rural subscribers who live in areas not served by local content. H.R. 5036 simply extends the expiring statutory license permit, contained in STELA, for five years. Below is a statement from Chairman Goodlatte on the bill’s introduction: “The vast majority of Americans have relied upon satellite and cable services for access to a wide variety of video content, ranging from nighttime entertainment for their families; educational shows for their children; local and national news with information that informs them; and public access channels that empower Americans to see their local, state, and federal representatives in action. Without Congressional action to renew the expiring video license, access to these services could be in jeopardy, especially for rural Americans. I look forward to working with members of the Energy and Commerce Committee and House Leadership to ensure swift passage of a reauthorization of STELA.” Text of the bill can be found here.
07.08.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the statement below following President Obama’s $3.7 billion emergency supplemental request to address the surge of children, teenagers, and families from Central America seeking to enter the U.S. illegally. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama created this disaster at our southern border and now he is asking to use billions of taxpayer dollars without accountability or a plan in place to actually stop the border crisis. Most of the money requested in the President’s supplemental seems geared towards processing Central Americans than stopping the surge itself. It’s clear that law enforcement officers at the border need more resources to deal with the border crisis but resources will only be useful if there are consequences for illegal immigration. “Republicans are committed to solving this problem, including seeking changes to current law. However, no amount of resources or changes will be effective in stemming the surge of illegal border crossings if President Obama continues to ignore the law. President Obama can and should take action now to halt the flood of illegal crossings at our southwest border. President Obama has many tools at his disposal now to quell this activity at our southern border, such as enforcing immigration laws and cracking down on rampant asylum fraud. Unfortunately, none of these tools are mentioned in his proposal. “During my trip to the Rio Grande Valley last week, Border Patrol and ICE agents unanimously stated that the best way to end this crisis is deterrence. Some of them expressed frustration that political appointees at the Department of Homeland Security have not sought input from the agents on the ground dealing with this problem first hand. As President Obama is in Texas this week, I urge him to meet with law enforcement officers who are on the front lines so that he can better understand how his policies have created this crisis and how he can end it.” Last week, Chairman Goodlatte led a bipartisan delegation to the Rio Grande Valley in Texas to examine this crisis and seek solutions on how best to stop it. During the trip, members of the House Judiciary Committee toured federal facilities and met with those dealing with this problem firsthand at the border, including law enforcement officers and federal officials from the Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, and Health and Human Services. Key findings from the trip can be found here.
07.03.2014	Harlingen, Texas — This week, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) led a bipartisan trip to the Rio Grande Valley Sector of the U.S.-Mexico border to seek information about the sudden surge of children, teenagers, and families – largely from Central America – attempting to enter the U.S. illegally. On the first day, the congressional delegation toured several federal facilities and met with federal officials at a Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Office of Refugee Resettlement facility, the McAllen Border Patrol Station, and Gateway International Bridge in Brownsville. The group also went on a riverine tour with Customs and Border Protection (CBP) on the Rio Grande River to witness firsthand the challenges the Border Patrol faces. On the second day, members spent the day at the Port Isabel Detention Facility where they met with officials from Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the Department of Justice (DOJ), CBP, and HHS. Below are key findings from the briefings. 1. The vast majority of Central American minors who are unaccompanied meet up with their parents who are already in the United States illegally. Further, these parents often had a role in smuggling the minors into the United States. While touring several federal facilities, minors traveling from Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras stated that they came here to be with a parent who is already in the United States illegally. At a tour of the HHS facility housing boys ages 8-17, Members were told that the phone is ringing off the hook with parents looking for their children who they know made - and often directed to make - the dangerous journey to the U.S. While Chairmen Goodlatte and Issa were on a ride-along with the Border Patrol along the Rio Grande, they witnessed the apprehension of a mother and child from El Salvador and a 15-year-old boy from Honduras. The boy said he came to reunite with his mother, who has been in Los Angeles since he was six. Both said they were coming here in violation of law. 2. Border Patrol agents say the best way to stop this crisis is deterrence. Border Patrol agents stated unequivocally that the best way to stop the surge of Central Americans is deterrence and there must be an end of what is now essentially “catch and release.” However, it’s clear that currently there are little, if any, consequences for illegal immigration. Word has spread to the Americas and beyond that women and children are not priorities for removal, as outlined in the Obama Administration’s immigration enforcement “priorities.” Additionally, many of these minors and families are able to game the asylum process since most applications are rubberstamped for approval. In fact, an internal Department of Homeland Security report states there is proven or possible fraud in up to 70% of asylum applications. 3. Stringent environmental rules prevent Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley Sector from accessing federal lands along the border. Border Patrol agents cited restrictions on federal lands as a burden to doing their job of securing the border. The Departments of Interior and Agriculture currently have rules that prevent Border Patrol agents from accessing federal lands within 100 miles of the border under the guise of environmental preservation. The House Judiciary Committee has passed legislation, the SAFE Act, which would stop this foolish policy. Based on these findings, Chairman Goodlatte released the following statement: “This trip has confirmed that the current crisis at the border is a disaster of President Obama’s own making. While there are some laws that complicate how we deal with minors from Central America coming the U.S. illegally, it is crystal clear that President Obama has many tools he could use now to quell this activity in the Rio Grande Valley and prevent minors from making the dangerous journey to the United States. If President Obama wants to stop this problem, he should enforce our immigration laws and quit using his pen and phone to create administrative legalization programs. Additionally, he needs to direct officials at the Department of Homeland Security to crack down on asylum fraud and implement deterrents to stop people from entering in violation of the law. This would send the unequivocal message that it is no longer worth the risk to subject children to the dangers of the perilous trip north to our southern border. President Obama created this crisis and he has the power to stop it now. Children’s lives are at stake, and so is the integrity of our immigration system.” Background: The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Office of Immigration Statistics estimates that the illegal migration of minors will grow from 6,500 in FY 2011 to an estimated 142,000 in 2015. As of last week, DHS has seen about 50,000 minors attempting to cross into the United States and over 40,000 family members for FY 2014. The estimated number to be apprehended in 2014 represents a 1,381% increase since 2011, while the projected number of 142,000 apprehensions in 2015 represents a 2,232% increase. Members of the House Judiciary Committee joining Chairman Goodlatte in traveling to the border include Representatives Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Blake Fahrenthold (R-Texas), Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas), and Joe Garcia (D-Fla.).
06.30.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released the statement below following President Obama’s speech in which he called for the enactment of the Senate immigration bill, announced that he will take more unilateral actions to dismantle our immigration laws this summer, and announced that he will send interior enforcement officers to the border to deal with the surge of kids, teenagers, and parents from Central America seeking to enter the U.S. illegally. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama refuses to take any responsibility for our broken immigration system: he created the crisis at the border and he has many tools at his disposal to fix it. He created the crisis by stating that minors and families are not a priority for removal and he has distorted the rule of law so much that, as he indicates, ‘folks don’t know what the rules are.’ President Obama could quell the border crisis by halting his abuses of prosecutorial discretion, actually enforcing our immigration laws within the interior of the United States, and starting to crack down on fraudulent asylum claims – all of which he has the authority to do now. But instead, he is sending lawyers, judges, and asylum officers to the border, which will only fast-track the likelihood that these minors and families will pursue asylum cases that the administration rubberstamps, and remain in the U.S. for years to come. The Obama Administration plans to send interior immigration enforcement officers to the border, which means that individuals who simply make it past the border patrol could get more than just a free pass into the U.S. – they could get to stay once they reach the interior of the U.S. “President Obama’s call for the Senate immigration bill to become law would also exacerbate the current crisis at the border. Much like the 1986 immigration overhaul, the Senate immigration bill provides a legal status to unlawful immigrants without guaranteeing the enforcement of our immigration laws and securing the border. If the Senate bill were to become law, it would worsen this crisis because its fails to secure our borders, mitigate threats to national security, deport convicted criminal aliens, and enforce our immigration laws going forward. “Many members of the House want to fix our immigration laws but President Obama’s continued abuse of his ‘pen and phone’ to act unilaterally has undermined our efforts and has also caused a trust deficit with the American people. I’m shocked that President Obama is calling for more unilateral actions but I am even more shocked by what he didn’t say today. He said nothing about cracking down on fraudulent asylum claims nor did he say he would remove those seeking to enter the U.S. illegally. By threatening more unilateral actions this summer while failing to address the issue of border security, President Obama will only worsen the crisis at the border and will further undermine Americans’ faith in the President’s ability to lead.”
06.30.2014	Today, the Supreme Court announced a landmark decision in support of religious freedom in Burwell v. Hobby Lobby. The Court ruled 5-4 in favor of Hobby Lobby. The Court determined that the Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) contraceptive mandate burdens the free exercise of religion and that the mandate applied to closely-held corporations violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. The HHS mandate requires employer coverage of contraception that violates the conscience rights of some employers, such as sterilizations and abortion-inducing drugs. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) issued the following statement on the Burwell v. Hobby Lobby Supreme Court decision announced today. Chairman Goodlatte: “Today’s historic decision by the Supreme Court upholds free exercise protection embodied in the Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) and affirms our nation’s legacy of protecting religious freedom. Our nation’s laws have long protected the rights of people to freely exercise their religious beliefs. Americans deserve the freedom to live and work according to their religious beliefs without fear of punishment by the government. “As an original co-sponsor of RFRA over two decades ago and as a supporter of liberty, I am pleased that the Court upheld the law’s free exercise protection that the ‘government shall not substantially burden a person’s exercise of religion.’ The conscience rights of businesses led by people of faith such as Hobby Lobby are included in this definition and protected under the law as now affirmed by the Supreme Court.” Background: During the planning and implementation of Obamacare, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued a mandate that required all employers—including religious institutions and family-owned businesses—to provide contraception coverage for certain devices that can strictly violate some employers’ conscience rights. Regardless of an employer’s religious or moral beliefs, the mandate required coverage of procedures such as sterilizations and abortion-inducing drugs. The decision today determined that HHS ignored the requirements of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act by not providing a religious exception from the mandate’s requirements. The decision addresses religious liberty, and does not limit a woman’s right to obtain contraceptives from other sources.
06.27.2014	Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Jim Costa (D-CA), Peter Welch (D-VT), and Steve Womack (R-AR) released the following statement today in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s Report The Renewable Fuel Standard: Issues for 2014 and beyond: “The report released by the Congressional Budget Office confirms what a bipartisan majority in Congress already know - we must reform the Renewable Fuel Standard. The report underscores the hardship that full implementation of the RFS would have on everyday Americans, and the unfeasibility of reaching the full mandate by 2022. EPA has stated it faces statutory challenges and inflexibilities in the law when implementing and reducing the Renewable Fuel Standard. This is highlighted by the fact that over six months into the calendar year, EPA has still yet to finalize renewable fuel obligations for 2014. It is vital that Congress provide a legislative fix to the RFS. Congress created this artificial ethanol market that is distorting the food and feed market, and Congress must provide relief from its unintended consequences.”
06.27.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R-Mich.) today sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder demanding that he appoint a Special Counsel to investigate the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. Over a year has passed since the public first learned about the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups and today no one has yet been held accountable for these apparent criminal actions. Recent developments, including the revelation that a number of emails belonging to Lois Lerner, the former IRS Director of Exempt Organizations, had been lost and the discovery of an e-mail suggesting the IRS audit Senator Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), further the importance of appointing a Special Counsel to investigate this matter. Under current law, the Attorney General is required to appoint a Special Counsel when he or she determines that the criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted. Specifically, the Attorney General is required to appoint a Special Counsel when the investigation or prosecution of that person or matter by a United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances, and when under the circumstances it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter. Below are excerpts from the letter. “It is clear that appointing an outside Special Counsel to investigate this matter would be in the public interest. The American people are very concerned that their government has targeted individual American citizens for harassment solely on the basis of their political beliefs. They deserve to know who ordered the targeting, when the targeting was ordered, and why. “The timing of the revelation of the lost emails and the new information regarding the apparent consideration of a sitting Republican Senator – and vocal critic of the IRS targeting of conservative groups – for a baseless investigation and audit, have served to wash away whatever credibility the Administration retained in this matter, and have indisputably created the “extraordinary circumstances” called for in the regulations” Background: On May 7, 2014, the House of Representatives passed a resolution (H.Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. Earlier this year, Attorney General Holder appointed a Justice Department attorney who donated thousands of dollars to President Obama’s presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee to spearhead the investigation. Additionally, over the last several months the Administration, including President Obama himself, has publicly undermined the integrity of the Justice Department’s investigation.
06.26.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte welcomed Briannah Ecklund, winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2014 Congressional Art Competition, to Washington today. Her watercolor piece, Piedmont Mill, depicts a section of an old Lynchburg milling company building near the James River. Briannah is a rising junior at Heritage High School in Lynchburg. Piedmont Mill is now on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of an impressive display of artwork from high school artists from across the nation. Only one artwork from each congressional district is selected for display. Briannah’s achievement was honored today at an awards ceremony in the Capitol. Congressman Goodlatte: “Congratulations, Briannah! After seeing Piedmont Mill in the Capitol today, I think it is by far one of the best pieces on display. Briannah’s painting showcases terrific skill. I am very pleased that this piece will represent the Sixth District of Virginia in the U.S. Capitol for the next year. I wish Briannah the best of luck as she continues to expand her artistic talents and works towards a future career in animation.” For photos, please click here.
06.26.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the statement below following the Supreme Court’s ruling that President Obama violated the U.S. Constitution by going around the Senate to appoint individuals to the National Labor Relations Board. Goodlatte: “I applaud the Supreme Court’s unanimous decision today finding that President Obama overstepped his constitutional authority by going around the Senate to appoint key officials to a labor agency. While it is not new for presidents to make recess appointments, President Obama took this to an unprecedented level. This abuse of the recess appointment process is in blatant violation of the Constitution since the Senate was not in recess. Not to mention that in bypassing the formal Senate confirmation process, the ability of the American people to properly examine the background or public records of the nominees was eliminated. “Unfortunately, this instance of President Obama violating the Constitution is just part of a broader pattern of ignoring or rewriting the laws Congress has passed. Time and again, President Obama has used his pen and phone to legislate by executive decree rather than work with Americans’ elected representatives. The House has passed legislation to stop President Obama’s executive overreach but the Senate has refused to act on it. That is why I strongly support Speaker Boehner’s decision to bring a lawsuit against President Obama for his lawlessness.”
06.25.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) released this statement following the Supreme Court’s 6-3 ruling in the case of American Broadcasting, Inc. v. Aereo. Today’s decision found that Aereo’s streaming of copyrighted television broadcasts is copyright infringement. Chairman Goodlatte: “Technology continues to rapidly advance and the Internet and other technological advances have enabled copyright owners to make available their works to consumers around the world. Today’s Supreme Court decision reinforces the importance of the House Judiciary Committee’s ongoing review of our copyright law. The review is essential in determining whether the laws are still working in the digital age. It is my hope that we can identify improvements to our copyright laws that can benefit both the content community and the technology community, as well as consumers, by maintaining strong protections for copyrighted works and strong incentives for further innovation. Background: On April 24, 2013, Chairman Goodlatte announced his intention to undertake a comprehensive review of U.S. copyright law in a speech before the World Intellectual Property Day celebration at the Library of Congress. As part of the comprehensive copyright review, the House Judiciary Committee has already held hearings on issues like the Copyright Principles Project, the roles of the copyright and technology industries in our economy, voluntary agreements and music licensing.
06.24.2014	Following the Obama Administration’s announcement that it will send lawyers and judges to the border in order to attempt to fast-track the removal of children, teenagers, and families seeking to enter the United States illegally, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte today sent a letter to President Barack Obama asking him whether he believes there are provisions in current law that have set up roadblocks to actually achieving this goal and if he will suggest legislative changes. According to the Safe Passage Immigration Project – a division of the Justice Action Center at New York Law School that works with volunteer attorneys and New York Law School students to provide representation to unaccompanied alien minors in the immigration process – nearly 90% of the unaccompanied minors who are facing deportation nevertheless qualify for immigration relief, allowing them to remain in the United States legally. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte asks if provisions in several statutes, including those that govern expedited removal, voluntary removal, and ‘credible fear’ standards, among many others, impede the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to remove unaccompanied alien minors and families seeking to enter the U.S. illegally and if the President would suggest legislative changes. Below is the text of the letter. To view the signed letter, click here. “Dear President Obama, “As you know, an unprecedented number of unaccompanied alien minors and family units have been surging across our southern border and overwhelming our immigration enforcement agencies and local communities around the nation, causing an immigration and national security nightmare. It was reported in the press on Friday that Deputy Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) told reporters that ‘[w]e are surging resources to increase our capacity to detain individuals and adults with children, and to handle immigration court hearings. … This will allow Immigration and Customs Enforcement – or ICE -- to return unlawful migrants from Central America who are ordered removed to their home countries more quickly.’ “Deputy Secretary Mayorkas’ statement begs the question as to whether the federal government can actually obtain removal orders against these aliens or otherwise remove them. The Safe Passage Immigration Project, a division of the Justice Action Center at New York Law School that works with volunteer attorneys and New York Law School students to provide representation to unaccompanied alien minors in the immigration process, states that ‘[o]ur organization . . . finds that nearly 90 percent of the unaccompanied minors we meet who are facing deportation qualify for immigration relief, allowing them to remain in the United States legally.’ I respectfully request answers to the following questions: • Do you believe that there are provisions contained in current immigration law, including applicable court settlement agreements, that have put up roadblocks in the way of DHS’s ability to secure removal orders or otherwise remove the aliens unlawfully surging across our southern border? • Do you believe that the settlement agreement in Flores v. Reno that encourages DHS to release unaccompanied alien minors to the unlawful aliens who paid to smuggle them into the U.S. impedes DHS’s ability to remove them? • Do you believe that DHS’s inability under current law to put unaccompanied alien minors in expedited removal proceedings impedes DHS’s ability to remove them? • Do you believe that the minimal standard under current law to show a credible fear of persecution encourages fraudulent claims results in the release of apprehended family units and impedes DHS’s ability to remove them? • Do you believe that the lack of a ground of inadmissibility under current law for being a member of a violent criminal gang impedes DHS’s ability to remove minors who are members of such gangs? • Do you believe that DHS’s inability under current law to voluntarily return unaccompanied alien minors from Central America impedes its ability to remove them? • Do you believe that the requirements under current law for DHS to notify the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) within 48 hours upon the apprehension or discovery of an unaccompanied alien minor and to transfer them to HHS custody within 72 hours are practicable? “If you believe that any of these provisions of current immigration law, or any others, are impeding DHS’s ability to remove the unaccompanied alien minors and family units unlawfully surging across our southern border, will your Administration request appropriate legislative changes from Congress and provide proposed legislative language to do so? “Additionally, do you believe that a lack of resources at DHS, HHS, or the Executive Office for Immigration Review is impeding DHS’s ability to remove the unaccompanied alien minors and family units unlawfully surging across our southern border? If so, will your Administration request appropriate additional resources from the Appropriations Committee? “I, as Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, would be delighted to work with you on legislative reform efforts if you believe them necessary to successfully obtain removal orders against or otherwise remove the unaccompanied alien minors and family units overwhelming our southern border. I look forward to hearing from you.”
06.20.2014	The Obama Administration today announced that U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) will expand the number of family detention beds and send trial attorneys and immigration judges to the border to address the sudden surge of children, teenagers, and families seeking to enter the United States illegally. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) criticized the Administration’s solution to this crisis in the statement below. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s plan to deal with the crisis at the border created by his administration’s bad immigration policies is nothing but smoke and mirrors. Many of the children, teenagers, and adults arriving at the border are able to game our asylum and immigration laws because the Obama Administration has severely weakened them and many thousands have already been released into the interior of the United States. What does President Obama plan to do with those who have already been released from custody? “If President Obama really wants to fix this problem, he should implement real solutions, such as enforcing our immigration laws, reversing his policies that created this mess in the first place, and proposing urgently needed legislative fixes. But unfortunately, he is using deceptive tactics to make it appear that he is doing something when he actually isn’t.” Background: Unaccompanied alien minors are not subject to expedited removal under current law, and many – if not a majority – of them are eligible for immigration relief under current law. Asylum Loophole and Fraud: The House Judiciary Committee obtained an internal Department of Homeland Security (DHS) report which shows that at least 70% of asylum cases contain proven or possible fraud, approval rates of asylum applications are skyrocketing, supposedly former members of violent gangs are getting asylum, and non-detained aliens who are denied asylum are rarely successfully deported. Furthermore, family units caught along the border or at ports of entry can claim a ‘credible fear’ of persecution in order to seek a hearing before an immigration judge and can also receive work authorization while their case is pending. Over the past several years, “credible fear” claims have been granted at ever growing rates under the Obama Administration. Currently, data provided by DHS shows that U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) makes positive credible fear findings in 92% of all cases decided on the merits. In fact, credible fear claims have increased 586% from 2007 to 2013 as word has gotten out as to the virtual rubberstamping of applications. The Obama Administration contributes to undermining our asylum system by failing to follow current law as it pertains to the asylum process. Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, family units are subject to mandatory detention whether they are found to have credible fear or not until it is determined whether they have legitimate asylum claims. The detention standard was enacted because large numbers of arriving aliens were absconding after claiming asylum and being released. However, these standards have been watered down by the current Administration via executive fiat. A December 8, 2009, policy directive issued by former ICE Director John Morton provides that any arriving alien who has been found to have a credible fear and can establish identity and argue that they are not a flight risk or a danger to the community should be released by ICE. Minors Eligible for Green Cards: Minors arriving at the border also can seek an unlimited number of Special Immigrant Juvenile green cards. On Wednesday, June 25th at 2:00 p.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on this issue, entitled “An Administration-Made Disaster: The South Texas Border Surge of Unaccompanied Minors.”
06.20.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) filed an amicus brief today in the case of American Farm Bureau Federation, et al. v. United States Environmental Protection Agency, et al., which is currently before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit. The amicus brief, signed by 39 bipartisan Members of Congress, is in support of the American Farm Bureau Federation’s position and urges the Court to acknowledge the congressional intent of the Clean Water Act to reserve the rights of states to implement water quality goals as related to the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) proposed Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL). Click here for a PDF copy of the brief. Chairman Goodlatte: “EPA’s power grab surrounding the Chesapeake Bay TMDL sets a dangerous precedent by usurping authority delegated to the states in the Clean Water Act simply because the agency disagrees with a state’s decision on implementation. The District Court wrongly left this power grab unchecked. As the EPA continues to ignore the intent of Congress and the framework of the law, it is necessary to weigh-in on the Appeals Court’s proceedings and highlight where the EPA has violated the law and infringed upon states’ rights. “I have heard first-hand from municipalities, farmers, home builders, and many others in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed who are concerned about the costs of overregulation worsened by the EPA’s measures. States and communities need more flexibility in meeting water quality goals in order to help restore and protect our natural resources. I urge the Court to follow congressional intent and reserve these decisions for the states. The EPA does not have the legal authority to micromanage states’ water quality goals.” Additional Information: An amicus brief, or “friend of the court” brief, can be filed in order to address concerns and advise the Court on a matter of law that directly affects the case at hand. In addition to Chairman Goodlatte, 38 Members of the United States House of Representatives and Senate signed on in support of this bipartisan brief. The full list of congressional amici curiae includes: Reps. Robert Aderholt (R-Ala.), Lou Barletta (R-Pa.), Joe Barton (R-Texas), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tenn.), Kevin Brady (R-Texas), Chris Collins (R-N.Y.), Doug Collins (R-Ga.), Scott DesJarlais (R-Tenn.), Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.), John Fleming (R-La.), Bob Gibbs (R-Ohio), Louie Gohmert (R-Texas), Sam Graves (R-Mo.), H. Morgan Griffith (R-Va.), Brett Guthrie (R-Ky.), Andy Harris (R-Md.), Vicky Hartzler (R-Mo.), Tim Huelskamp (R-Kan.), Robert Hurt (R-Va.), Billy Long (R-Mo.), Frank Lucas (R-Okla.), Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-Mo.), Tom Massie (R-Ky.), David McKinley (R-W.Va.), Randy Neugebauer (R-Texas), Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Scott Perry (R-Pa.), Robert Pittenger (R-N.C.), Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.), Todd Rokita (R-In.), Dennis Ross (R-Fla.), Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Bill Shuster (R-Pa.), Adrian Smith (R-Ne.), Scott Tipton (R-Colo.), and Glenn Thompson (R-Pa.) as well as Senators Pat Toomey (R-Pa.) and David Vitter (R-La.).
06.19.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte today sent a letter to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson demanding answers about the influx of children, teenagers, and families seeking to enter the United States illegally along the southern border and the Department’s response to this immigration and national security crisis. House Judiciary Committee staff has sought answers from DHS on this issue repeatedly but has not been provided complete answers. In the letter, Chairman Goodlatte asks over 20 detailed questions regarding how many individuals are attempting to enter the U.S. illegally, how they are entering our country, where they are being transported to in the interior U.S., what types of immigration benefits they are applying for, and whether those released from custody ever show up for their removal proceedings, among many other questions. The full letter can be found here. Next Wednesday, June 25th at 2:00 p.m., the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on this troubling issue. Many of the Obama Administration’s policies, such as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the virtual rubberstamping of “credible fear” claims at the border, have led to this sudden surge of minors arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border. Word has gotten out in Central America regarding the Administration’s lax immigration policies so people are being encouraged to take advantage of the lack of immigration enforcement in the U.S. Reports demonstrate that families and children come here believing that they will not be turned away. In addition, Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez recently stated that people from his country are coming to the U.S. illegally because they hope to gain a legal status.
06.19.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released a statement today regarding actions this week by the Judicial Conference, the principal policy-making body concerned with the administration of the U.S. Courts, to identify deficiencies in the General Services Administration’s (GSA) service at federal court facilities. On Monday, as part of a joint service validation initiative, the Judicial Conference issued a request to all Chief Judges around the country for information regarding any space and facilities-related issues. Click here to view three letters/memos from the Judicial Conference. Earlier today, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property and the Internet held a hearing on “GSA’s Failure to Meet the Needs of the Judiciary: A Case Study of Bureaucratic Negligence and Waste.” “It is no coincidence that the Judicial Conference called for a comprehensive and systematic review of GSA-managed facilities nationwide to catalog service issues just days before the Judiciary Committee’s hearing on this very subject. Problems with GSA’s responsiveness and management of facilities that house federal courts are not isolated. Issues at the Poff Federal Building in Roanoke and the Albuquerque Federal Courthouse in New Mexico, which were featured in today’s hearing, are symptomatic of widespread deficiencies in GSA’s service and wasteful spending decisions in judicial districts throughout the nation. “The new initiative announced on Monday is a clear result of the fact that this oversight hearing was scheduled and that lawmakers are actively examining the negative impact of GSA’s mismanagement on the administration of justice. As the Chair of the Judicial Conference's Space and Facilities Committee, the Honorable D. Brooks Smith, wrote, ‘The Committee appreciates the time and consideration the members of the subcommittee have given to this matter.’ The Judiciary pays more than $1 billion in rent to GSA each year. It is critical that we continue to ensure that taxpayer money is spent wisely and that the GSA is held accountable for any lack of service to the Judiciary.”
06.18.2014	The House Judiciary Committee today approved H.R. 3086, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (PITFA), by a vote of 30-4. PITFA is a strongly bipartisan bill with more than 220 cosponsors. The bill makes permanent the provisions of the Internet Tax Freedom Act (ITFA) that temporarily bans states from taxing Internet access or placing multiple or discriminatory taxes on e-commerce. ITFA was first enacted in 1998 and has been extended three times with enormous bipartisan support. Only two “no” votes were ever cast in the history of these extensions. The most recent extension expires on November 1, 2014. By striking the 2014 expiration date from the bill, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act makes this moratorium permanent instead of requiring reauthorization every few years. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, original sponsor of the bill, praised today’s Committee vote: “Today’s Internet connects communities in the Sixth District with people throughout the United States and across the globe. Many folks rely on access to the Internet to continue educational opportunities, apply for employment, run businesses, monitor banking accounts, and communicate with family and friends. This tool has transformed our economy and how we live our lives each day. “The Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act passed by the Committee today permanently bans taxes on Internet access. The last thing people need is the puzzling array of taxes on their phone bills to be repeated on their Internet service bills. Instead of applying a band-aid every few years to further extend the tax ban, PITFA would provide a permanent fix. This broadly bipartisan bill ensures that access to the Internet is not burdened by unnecessary costs and that Americans can continue to access the Internet tax free.”
06.17.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement after being presented with the Spirit of Enterprise Award by the United States Chamber of Commerce at a forum hosted by the Bedford Area Chamber of Commerce on Monday: “Businesses, and the men and women who work tirelessly to grow them, are the driving force behind the American economy. Over the years, this country has been built by the hard work of employees in every industry, from manufacturing to agriculture to small technology startups. I am honored to receive the Spirit of Enterprise Award. It is businesses in the Sixth District facing the red tape of burdensome new regulations, communities concerned about bringing more jobs to the region, employees paying higher health care costs, and families spending more on the electric bill as a result of this Administration’s misguided policies that I keep in mind when casting my vote in Washington. I will continue to support pro-jobs policies, including common sense tax reform and greater access to reliable, domestic energy sources, which will encourage innovation and help put this economy back in gear.” Background: The U.S. Chamber of Commerce awarded the Spirit of Enterprise Award to Members of Congress in recognition of their support of pro-growth, pro-jobs policies during the first session of the 113th Congress.
06.17.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the statement below regarding the capture of one of the suspected leaders, Ahmed Abu Khattala, of the terrorist attacks in Benghazi, Libya that resulted in the deaths of four Americans, including Ambassador Christopher Stevens. Chairman Goodlatte: “Just last week, FBI Director James Comey testified before the House Judiciary Committee and I expressed concern that no one had yet been brought to justice for murdering four Americans at the U.S. consulate in Benghazi. Today, nearly two years after these terrorist attacks, I am relieved that one of the suspected ringleaders of these terrorist attacks has finally been apprehended. I thank our brave military and law enforcement officers for their efforts to capture him. As his prosecution moves forward, I will be closely watching to ensure that President Obama lives up to his pledge to bring the Benghazi terrorists to justice.”
06.10.2014	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.) and Michael Capuano (D-Mass) released the following statements upon introducing H. Res. 614, a resolution opposing the President’s proposal to create a college ratings system: Congressman Goodlatte: “Personality, location, availability of a major, tuition rates – all factors students might use when choosing which college or university to attend. The opportunities and experiences available to students at our nation’s colleges and universities are as diverse as the students who attend these institutions. In making this important decision, students and their families know best what will meet their educational needs. It is not the place of the federal government, through a ratings system, to attempt to measure the value of an individual’s education. I have spoken with a number of college and university presidents who are concerned about the negative impact this proposal may have on higher education, and I share their concerns. The resolution introduced today strongly supports the quality and value of diversity in our higher education system and makes clear that the Administration’s proposed college ratings system is not feasible and if attempted, would decrease choice, diversity, and innovation. I urge my colleagues in the House to join us in voicing opposition to the Administration’s misguided ratings system.” Congressman Capuano: “I share President Obama’s belief that everyone has the right to develop his or her potential to the fullest, and that for many students, post-secondary education will prove enriching in both intellectual and material ways. To achieve this ideal and help our students compete globally, we must make higher education more affordable and accessible, and I appreciate the President’s commitment to that goal. Nonetheless, I have a number of concerns about aspects of the “President’s Plan to Make College More Affordable.” Specifically, some of the criteria proposed for a new college ratings system strike me as short-sighted and even counter-productive. For example, judging the value – or the “value-added” – of a college by the earning of its graduates could cause schools to discourage alumni from public service and a variety of essential, rewarding but unremunerative careers. I hope my colleagues will join us in opposing this proposed ratings system.” Background: In August 2013, the Department of Education announced they would develop a Postsecondary Institution Ratings System (PIRS), or college ratings system, as part of the Obama Administration’s “Plan to Make College More Affordable.” The system is set to be enacted prior to the start of the 2015 school year. This ratings system, as proposed, would potentially tie financial aid to an institution’s rating. The original proposal suggested ratings would be based on measures such as the percentage of students receiving Pell grants, average tuition, loan debt, graduation rates, graduate earnings, and advanced degrees. The Department of Education has yet to release a draft of the specific formula that would be used to determine college ratings. Congressmen Goodlatte and Capuano represent more than 50 colleges and universities.
06.06.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement marking the 70th anniversary of the D-Day invasion: “In a message to the troops just hours before the D-Day invasion, General Dwight Eisenhower said, ‘The eyes of the world are upon you.’ He could not have known how true those words rang for both those in battlefields afar and families waiting anxiously at home. The soldiers who stormed the beaches of Normandy on June 6, 1944, saw some of the most intense fighting of World War II. While the costs were great, D-Day also represented a turning of the tide in the push for the liberation of France and victory over the Nazi regime. “Today, at the National D-Day Memorial in Bedford, I will honor and remember those who played a role in the invasion on this day 70 years ago. Those of us who were not at D-Day will never be able to fathom the scene. But the stories and accounts will forever remind us of the courage, bravery, and sacrifice of many who paid the last full measure of devotion so that we could enjoy the freedoms and liberties envisioned by our Founding Fathers. The veterans of D-Day, members of the ‘Greatest Generation,’ are one of our nation’s most celebrated treasures. I am grateful for their service 70 years ago and for the service of all of our veterans in the defense of this great nation.”
06.05.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte today issued the statement below following the Obama Administration’s announcement of a process for renewing the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. Additionally, Administration officials quietly made several changes to DACA. They have loosened the educational requirements to allow those who are enrolled in an “alternative program” (without defining what this means) to benefit from the program. The Administration also states that for any documentary evidence provided by an applicant to meet DACA requirements, it simply “may contact education institutions, other government agencies, employers, or other entities in order to verify information,” as opposed to actually verifying the veracity of the document. Chairman Goodlatte: “President Obama’s extension of his unilaterally-created immigration program not only violates his constitutional duty to enforce the law, but the changes he made to it proactively invite fraud and abuse. The Obama Administration’s blatant statement that they may not verify information submitted by applicants is pure folly and only encourages unscrupulous people to test the system. And by loosening the education standards, potentially millions more unlawful immigrants who do not meet even basic educational requirements will be able to apply for the program. These actions undermine Congress’ hard work to reform our immigration laws and also raise serious concerns about the Administration’s ability and willingness to maintain the integrity of our immigration laws. “The House Judiciary Committee plans to continue its oversight of the Obama Administration’s lax immigration enforcement and will look into how these changes impact our immigration system.” Background: To date, approximately 600,000 unlawful immigrants have benefited from DACA. As reported by the New York Times earlier this year, DACA has increased wait times for many thousands of Americans seeking green cards for foreign spouses or other immediate relatives. The changes to DACA are in the FAQ section.
06.02.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte today issued the statement below following the Obama Administration’s announcement of the creation of an inter-agency Unified Coordination Group lead by FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate to coordinate the federal response effort to address the influx of “unaccompanied alien children” arriving at the U.S-Mexico border. Chairman Goodlatte: “The recent surge of children and teenagers from Central America showing up at our Southern border is an Administration-made disaster and now President Obama is calling in FEMA to mitigate the damage. Word has gotten out around the world about President Obama’s lax immigration enforcement policies and it has encouraged more individuals to come to the United States illegally, many of whom are children from Central America. Illegal border crossing is extremely dangerous and many of these children encounter drug and human traffickers along the way. Enforcement at the border and in the interior of the U.S. is crucial to end these kinds of situations, not another bureaucratic task force. The House Judiciary Committee intends to hold a hearing on this troubling issue in the coming weeks.” Background: Many of the Obama Administration’s policies, such as Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) and the virtual rubberstamping of “credible fear” claims at the border, have led to a surge of minors arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border. Additionally, in December 2013, federal district court Judge Andrew S. Hanen of Brownsville, Texas issued a searing condemnation of one of the Obama Administration’s immigration policies. In his order in U.S. v. Nava-Martinez, he accuses the federal government of facilitating human smuggling by transporting unaccompanied alien children to their parents in the U.S. who had paid smugglers to bring them here in the first place.
05.30.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released this statement today following the announcement of the resignation of VA Secretary Eric Shinseki: “Secretary Shinseki’s resignation is only part of the solution to the systemic problems within the VA system. The issues uncovered at the VA are the result of severe mismanagement by officials at every level of the Department, as well as a total lack of oversight from the White House, and are completely unacceptable. It is critical that the responsible officials and employees at the VA be held accountable. The next VA Secretary will have a serious task before them to change the course of this troubled Department. I hope that a strong replacement is selected to accomplish this task. I also hope that President Obama will step up to the plate and lead on this issue as he has promised to do since his election, including the signing of House passed legislation giving the VA Secretary increased authority to fire senior executive employees who fail to serve our veterans. The delays in service faced by our veterans must be addressed immediately in order to correct the problem and ensure quality, timely service for those who have sacrificed so much for our nation. Nothing less will be acceptable to the American public, or to me.”
05.29.2014	As the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is set to finalize 2014 Renewable Volume Obligations (RVOs) to meet the Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS), Reps. Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Jim Costa (D-Calif.), Steve Womack (R-Ark.), and Peter Welch (D-Vt.) announced today that 218 Members of the House of Representatives have expressed concerns regarding the current ethanol mandate: “There is one thing a bipartisan majority of Members of the House can agree upon – there is a serious problem with the RFS. It is telling that 218 members from both sides of the aisle, representing communities across the nation, have spoken out against the current RFS and called for reform. The flawed ethanol mandate has a real impact on the American economy, and legislation in the House to reform the RFS has drawn the support of more the 50 organizations representing a diverse range of issues. There is clearly a growing appetite to reform the ethanol mandate, and it is time for the EPA to address lawmakers’ concerns. Any day now, the EPA is expected to announce the final rule governing 2014 RFS levels. As the final rule is written, we urge Administrator McCarthy to carefully consider the concerns of a majority of House lawmakers in any decision and take action to reduce the burden of the RFS for 2014.” In April 2013, Reps. Goodlatte, Costa, Womack, and Welch introduced H.R. 1462, the RFS Reform Act, which eliminates corn-based ethanol requirements, caps the amount of ethanol that can be blended into conventional gasoline at 10 percent, and requires the EPA to set cellulosic biofuels levels at production levels. In October, they sent a letter signed by 169 Members of the House to the EPA requesting a reduction of RFS levels for this year.
05.22.2014	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 302-121 the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 3361), a bipartisan bill that ends bulk collection of data by the government and reforms our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). For nearly a year, the House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA, has studied the scope of these programs in detail. The Committee has held three hearings on this issue and has worked with civil liberties advocates, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, House leaders, and the Obama Administration to reach the bipartisan solution approved by the House today. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte praised today’s strong vote in the House of Representatives in the statement below: “Today’s strong, bipartisan vote by the House of Representatives on the USA Freedom Act will help protect our cherished individual liberties as the federal government carries out its duty to keep our nation safe from foreign enemies. The USA Freedom Act safeguards Americans’ civil liberties by ending domestic bulk collection once and for all and increases the oversight and transparency of these intelligence-gathering programs so that we can begin to rebuild trust with the American people. “With today’s vote, the House approved the first significant rollback of government surveillance since the passage of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act in 1978. While this is not a perfect bill, the USA Freedom Act is an important step in the right direction. We thank our staff, House leaders, and President Obama and his Administration for working tirelessly with us to reach this bipartisan solution that protects both national security and Americans’ privacy. We urge the Senate to move expeditiously on the USA Freedom Act so that our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs are operated in a manner that honors our country’s legacy of both providing for the common defense and securing the blessings of liberty.” Below are key provisions of H.R. 3361: Prohibits Bulk Collection of Data: The bill protects Americans’ privacy by ending the bulk collection of Americans’ business records under Section 215 of the Patriot Act, such as telephone and electronic communications records, among many others. The bill also prohibits bulk collection under other national security authorities. New Process for Obtaining Call Records: The USA Freedom Act makes clear that the government cannot indiscriminately acquire Americans’ records and creates a new process for the collection of call detail records. Specifically, the bill requires that these call detail records can only be collected on an ongoing case-by-case basis after approval by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. The FISC is authorized to allow up to two “hops.” Protects Americans’ Privacy: The bill codifies current minimization procedures, requiring the government to minimize the acquisition and prohibit the retention and dissemination of information about Americans. Additionally, it prohibits the government from using unlawfully obtained information about Americans acquired outside the scope of court-approved procedures. Ensures Robust Oversight of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill increases oversight of our intelligence-gathering programs by providing for judicial review of minimization procedures for the production of business records. Increases Transparency of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill creates a panel of legal experts to help ensure the FISA court adequately considers privacy concerns and Constitutional rights of Americans and also requires the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General to conduct a declassification review of each decision, order, or opinion of the FISA court that includes a significant construction or interpretation of the law. The bill requires the government to disclose the number of requests made for call detail records and requires the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts to publicly report annually the number of FISA orders issued, modified, or denied by the FISC. Allows American Tech Companies to Disclose FISA Orders: Last year’s national security leaks have also had a commercial and financial impact on American technology companies that have provided these records. They’ve experienced backlash from both American and foreign consumers and they’ve lost their competitive edge in the global marketplace. In January of this year, the Justice Department entered into a settlement with several companies to permit new ways to report data concerning requests for customer information under FISA. The USA Freedom Act builds upon this settlement, allowing tech companies to inform their American and foreign customers by publicly reporting national security requests.
05.21.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released this statement following House passage of H.R. 4031, the VA Management Accountability Act: “Recent allegations of gross mismanagement within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) are extremely alarming. We’ve heard claims of veterans waiting months for treatment and being placed on secret waitlists, as well as the deaths of several veterans during this prolonged waiting period. Now, as more alarming information comes to light, 26 Veterans Affairs facilities are under investigation. “The VA Management Accountability Act, which I supported today, would give VA Secretary Eric Shinseki more flexibility to discipline or remove senior executives at the VA who have failed to serve our veterans. Instead of turning a blind eye to abuses within the VA system, those responsible must be held accountable. Our nation’s heroes and their families deserve the truth. “Earlier today, President Obama said that he would not stand for misconduct. He said that his Administration has been working to address the numerous problems within the VA system. With passage of this important legislation, President Obama now has the opportunity to follow through on his words, stand behind this common sense bill and support Senate passage, and give the VA the tools to take swift and decisive take action that will bring about the change required to address the concerns of America’s veterans.”
05.20.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte announced today that Briannah Ecklund, a sophomore at Heritage High School, is the winner of the Sixth Congressional District of Virginia’s 2014 Congressional Art Competition. Her watercolor piece, Piedmont Mill, depicts a section of an old Lynchburg milling company building near the James River. Briannah resides in Lynchburg and is the daughter of Rick and Liz Ecklund. Her art teacher at Heritage High School is Jon Roark. Congressman Goodlatte: “Congratulations, Briannah! Piedmont Mill is a beautiful representation of some of the Sixth District’s historic architecture and showcases Briannah’s terrific skill. It is an honor to have this piece represent our region of Virginia in the U.S. Capitol. The artwork submitted by students this year was exceptional, and I applaud their efforts. I thank all of the students who participated as well as the teachers and parents who are helping to guide them in discovering their artistic skills.” Piedmont Mill by Briannah Ecklund Piedmont Mill will be on display in the Cannon Tunnel of the U.S. Capitol for one year as part of an impressive display of artwork from high school artists from across the nation. Only one artwork from each congressional district is selected for display. Briannah’s achievement will be honored at an awards ceremony in the Capitol in late June. The runners-up are Krista Hartmann, a student at E.C. Glass High School in Lynchburg, and Stephon Reid, a student at William Fleming High School in Roanoke. These pieces will be on display in Congressman Goodlatte’s Lynchburg and Roanoke offices respectively.
05.20.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte released the statement below following the announcement that President Obama will designate 500,000 acres in southern New Mexico near the U.S.-Mexico border as a national monument, half of which will be set aside as “wilderness.” Unfortunately, documents show that the Departments of Interior and Agriculture are using environmental regulations to prevent the Border Patrol from accessing portions of the 21 million acres along the U.S.-Mexico border and over 1,000 miles of the U.S.-Canada border. Goodlatte: “If President Obama is going to designate half a million acres as a national monument, then he needs to make sure that the Border Patrol has access to it in order to keep Americans safe from illegal activity along our borders. Unfortunately, Obama Administration officials have so far prevented Border Patrol agents from securing the border by denying them access to federal lands under the guise of environmental preservation. Without law enforcement having access to federal lands, drug traffickers, human smugglers, and potentially terrorists are able to exploit yet another loophole created by the Obama Administration’s lax immigration enforcement. As President Obama moves forward with his decision, I urge him and his Administration to allow Border Patrol agents to do their job and gain control of our nation’s porous borders.” Goodlatte is an original cosponsor of the SAFE Act (H.R. 2278) and National Security and Federal Lands Protection Act (HR. 2398), both of which prohibit the Departments of Interior and Agriculture from preventing Border Patrol agents access to federal lands within 100 miles of the border. This will better enable Border Patrol agents to secure our borders and prevent illegal activity, such as illegal immigration, smuggling, and drug trafficking. It also prohibits the interference of Border Patrol activities, such as construction and maintenance of roads and barriers, use of patrol vehicles, and deployment of tactical infrastructure. The SAFE Act was approved by the House Judiciary Committee last year.
05.20.2014	The House of Representatives today approved several pieces of bipartisan legislation to combat the growing problem of human trafficking. Three of these bills were recently approved by the House Judiciary Committee on April 30, 2014. The House unanimously approved by a vote of 408-0 the Justice for Victims of Trafficking Act (H.R. 3530), a comprehensive anti-human trafficking bill authored by Congressman Ted Poe (R-Texas). This bill boosts support and protection for domestic human trafficking victims by increasing and streamlining law enforcement resources, enhancing victims’ services, and strengthening our laws to ensure that both buyers and sellers engaged in sex trafficking are held accountable for their crimes. The House also approved by voice vote the Stop Exploitation Through Trafficking Act (H.R. 3610), sponsored by Congressman Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.). This bill provides incentives to states to adopt safe harbor laws that treat trafficked minors as victims, rather than as criminals or delinquents. The bill also provides an avenue for victims to access job skill training so that they can begin to rebuild their lives. Additionally, the House passed by a vote of 392-19 the Stop Advertising Victims of Exploitation (SAVE) Act (H.R. 4225), authored by Congresswoman Ann Wagner (R-Mo.), to criminalize those who knowingly advertise or profit from advertisements that offer the commercial exploitation of minors and trafficking victims. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte praised House passage of these bills in the statement below: “Most people think that human trafficking only happens in other countries, but this crime is not confined to brothels in Bangkok or Eastern Europe. It can happen anywhere, and it’s happening right here in America every single day. Sex traffickers and their buyers dehumanize their victims, treating them not as human beings created in the image of God, but instead as objects to be used for their own profit or pleasure. And sadly, when children are trafficked, not only are they robbed of their innocence and childhood, but they also are often treated as criminals rather than as victims in need of special care. “Today’s approval of several anti-human trafficking bills in the House of Representatives ensures that we have the tools needed to hold perpetrators who sell, buy, or market children to potential buyers accountable for their heinous crimes. These bills also ensure that exploited children are treated as victims rather than as criminals and provide much-needed resources to victims of sex trafficking that will help them reclaim and rebuild their lives. I thank my colleagues Representatives Poe, Paulsen, and Wagner for their efforts to end human trafficking and urge the Senate to take up these crucial bills without delay.” Earlier today, Chairman Goodlatte participated in a press conference with House leaders and several Members of Congress to discuss the anti-human trafficking bills approved by the House. Photos from today’s event can be found here. Background: According to the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), sex trafficking is the fastest-growing business of organized crime and the third-largest criminal enterprise in the world. One organization estimates that child sex trafficking in the U.S. is a $9.8 billion industry. However, since these crimes usually occur outside of the public eye, it is difficult to estimate the number of minor victims of sex trafficking. One study estimates that over 290,000 American youth are at risk of becoming a victim of sex trafficking. Additionally, from 2004 through 2008, the Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force experienced an increase of more than 900 percent in the number of minor sex trafficking complaints. While the investigation and prosecution of human trafficking has often been carried out by state and local law enforcement, the enactment of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act (TVPA) in 2000 made child sex trafficking in interstate commerce a federal crime. The TVPA is the primary legislative vehicle authorizing services to victims of trafficking and was most recently reauthorized in 2013.
05.13.2014	Today marks one year since the conviction of late-term abortionist Kermit Gosnell for the murder of three infants born alive during abortion procedures, 21 felony counts of illegal late-term abortion and 211 counts of violating the 24-hour informed consent law. Gosnell is now serving life in prison. Gosnell ran what was known as the “House of Horrors,” an unregulated late-term abortion clinic in Philadelphia that had not been inspected for 17 years. Congressman Goodlatte provided the following statement on the conviction: “Last year, the American people were revolted by horrendous accounts of medical malpractice, unsanitary conditions and the murder of innocent lives from Kermit Gosnell’s unregulated late-term abortion clinic known as the ‘House of Horrors’ in Philadelphia. The story was initially dismissed by many in mainstream media as a ‘local crime’ story. Thanks to several brave journalists, this issue was brought to the attention of mainstream media and the American people. “A year after his conviction to a life behind bars, the name ‘Kermit Gosnell’ has become synonymous with his unlawful clinic that subjected women who were often poor and disadvantaged to atrocious health-threatening and privacy-violating conditions, and to his actions that led to the death of many infants born alive and women who died following the procedure. “The infants and women harmed by this clinic are in my thoughts and prayers on this day, and my sincerest thanks goes to those who brought the atrocious Kermit Gosnell case into the public light and to justice.” Background: Kermit Gosnell gained a reputation for his willingness to perform unlawful late-term abortions. Atrocious medical malpractices were discovered in his clinic, including disgusting conditions former employees described in the Grand Jury Report as “blood-splattered floors, and blood-stained chairs in which patients waited for and then recovered from abortions. (…) The bathrooms were cleaned just once a week despite the fact that patients were vomiting in the sinks and delivering babies in the toilets.” Gosnell’s practice included stabbing infants to death with scissors and cutting their spinal cords, and letting patients bleed for hours on dirty blankets, chairs or on the toilet without supervision. Instruments were not sterilized, fetal remains were scattered throughout the clinic in jars, in the refrigerator and in the basement, and Gosnell and his staff were not medically-licensed physicians or nurses. Law enforcement investigators found “medical waste piled high” and “in all, the remains of 45 fetuses were recovered at the clinic that evening and turned over to the Philadelphia medical examiner, who confirmed that at least two of them, and probably three, had been viable.” Gosnell’s trial also examined gross violations of health standards and medical practice in his treatment of patients. Gosnell was found guilty in one instance that resulted in the death of a patient, Karnamaya Mongar, who was given a lethal drug overdose during her abortion procedure and died following a cardiac arrest without monitoring from Gosnell or his staff.
05.12.2014	The Center for Immigration Studies recently obtained a document that shows U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) released over 36,000 convicted criminal aliens in deportation proceedings in Fiscal Year 2013. Among them, the 36,000 had nearly 88,000 convictions, including 16,070 drunk or drugged driving convictions, 9,187 dangerous drug convictions, 426 sexual assault convictions, 303 kidnapping convictions, and 193 homicide convictions. Last month, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Congressman Lamar Smith (R-Texas), and several other members of the House Judiciary Committee wrote to Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Secretary Jeh Johnson requesting this information as well as additional information on criminal aliens identified by Secure Communities and released into communities across the United States. This letter was a follow up to an earlier letter sent by Congressman Smith to DHS. To date, the Department has failed to respond to the letter. Chairman Goodlatte and Congressman Smith released the joint statement below on the information recently revealed by the Center for Immigration Studies: “Regardless of one’s position on the larger immigration reform question, it’s incredibly alarming that tens of thousands of convicted criminal aliens – including hundreds of murderers, kidnappers, and rapists – who were processed for deportation are being freed into our communities by the Obama Administration. The truth is that most could be detained by immigration enforcement authorities if the Administration had the will to do so. These criminals should be locked up, not roaming our streets. Unfortunately, history tells us that many will go on to become fugitives from the law and commit additional crimes against American citizens and law-abiding immigrants. We must hold the Department of Homeland Security accountable for its actions and make sure it does everything possible to protect U.S. citizens from dangerous criminal aliens. “Over a month ago, the House Judiciary Committee requested that DHS provide information about criminal aliens identified by federal authorities and released into our communities but our questions have gone unanswered. This information is important to inform Congress about the problem of criminal aliens so that we make the right policy decisions moving forward. The Committee plans to hold an oversight hearing on DHS in the coming weeks and will expect Secretary Johnson to come clean and provide the Committee with answers to our questions.”
05.08.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement today after voting in support of H. Res. 567, which establishes a House Select Committee on Benghazi to investigate the events surrounding the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2012 on American facilities in Benghazi, Libya: “Since the deadly terrorist attack in Benghazi nearly 20 months ago, the American people have asked for the truth. Truth about what really happened, truth about events leading up to the attack, and truth about the Obama Administration’s actions in the aftermath. In the search for more answers, Congress has actively investigated this attack, reviewing hundreds of pages of documents, conducting interviews, and holding congressional hearings. However, the Administration’s continued stonewalling, coupled with new revelations of withheld documents, has made it clear that the next appropriate step in this investigation is a Select Committee to focus solely on this issue. My colleague and Judiciary Committee member, Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), is an excellent choice to lead this panel, examine all the evidence, and follow the facts to find the truth regarding Benghazi. The American people have waited for answers far too long.”
05.08.2014	Earlier today, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Courts, Intellectual Property, and the Internet held a hearing on video licenses, including the expiring provisions of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act (STELA), which governs satellite companies’ ability to retransmit broadcast television. Congressman Bob Goodlatte questioned witnesses specifically about the availability of local channels for satellite subscribers in the Sixth District: “The vast majority of Americans have relied upon satellite and cable services for access to a wide variety of video content, ranging from nighttime entertainment for their families; educational shows for their children; local and national news with information that informs them; and public access channels that empower Americans to see their local, state, and federal representatives in action. We must try to ensure that Americans continue to have access to these services. “Several Members have market specific issues in which their constituents are unable to watch local channels due to what could be best described as line drawing exercises over designated market areas gone astray. In my own Congressional district, my Page County constituents who are satellite subscribers watch Washington, D.C. channels when there are local channels in nearby Harrisonburg readily available and which provide local news and emergency information better tailored to that region. In fact, the over-the-air antenna used to broadcast the Harrisonburg channels is actually located in Page County. Under the current law if satellite companies provide these local channels, royalties would be due to both Washington D.C. and Harrisonburg channels even if my constituents only want to subscribe to Harrisonburg channels.” “I look forward to resolving these market specific issues going forward as we determine whether the current video compulsory license system is working for the digital era.” VIDEO: Goodlatte Questions Witnesses on Local Satellite Service - Click HERE.
05.08.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released the following statement congratulating Roanoke World War II veteran, Howard Patillo, on receiving the French Legion of Honor today: “It is only fitting that Mr. Patillo receive this recognition today. On May 8, 1945, 69 years ago today, victory in Europe was declared. This victory for Europe, and the world, was the result of valiant efforts on the battlefield by American soldiers like Mr. Patillo. His valor on the front lines, protecting the French people from German forces, deserves our greatest appreciation. Far too often we take for granted the sacrifices of the generations before us to protect freedom. I extend my sincere congratulations to Mr. Patillo on receiving the French Legion of Honor. I am grateful for his service, and the service of all of our veterans, in the defense of freedom.” Additional Information Howard Patillo served in the U.S. Army, 66th Infantry Division as a Staff Sergeant. He earned several honors for his service, including the Bronze Star. At a ceremony at the French Embassy in Washington today, Olivier Serot-Almeras, Consul General of France, awarded 18 American veterans the French Legion of Honor for their service in France during World War II. The Legion of Honor is France’s highest distinction.
05.07.2014	The House Judiciary Committee today approved by a vote of 32-0 the USA Freedom Act (H.R. 3361), a bipartisan bill to reform our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA), including ending the bulk collection of data. At the markup, an amendment in the nature of a substitute was adopted by the Committee. This bipartisan substitute amendment protects Americans’ civil liberties while maintaining a workable framework for intelligence officials to protect our national security and helps restore confidence and ensures transparency in the government’s intelligence-gathering programs. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte praised the Committee’s approval of this important legislation: “Today’s strong, bipartisan vote by the House Judiciary Committee takes us one step closer to ending bulk collection once and for all and safeguards Americans’ civil liberties as our intelligence community keeps us safe from foreign enemies who wish us harm. For nearly a year, the House Judiciary Committee has examined our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA and has worked together across party lines and with the Obama Administration to reach this bipartisan solution that includes real protections for Americans’ civil liberties, robust oversight, and additional transparency. As the Committee of primary jurisdiction, we urge the House and Senate to move expeditiously on this legislation so that we can begin to restore confidence in the way intelligence is gathered and protect the privacy rights of all Americans.” Below are key provisions of H.R. 3361, as approved by the House Judiciary Committee today. Prohibits Bulk Collection of Data: The bill protects Americans’ privacy by prohibiting bulk collection under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act (Section 501 of FISA), under the FISA Pen Register/Trap and Trace law (Section 402 of FISA), and under National Security Letter statutes. New Mechanism for Obtaining Call Records: To ensure national security officials have the needed information to keep Americans safe while enhancing Americans’ confidence in the manner in which this information is collected and held, the bill creates a new process for the collection of call detail records. The government would be required to seek approval from the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC) of specific selection terms on a case-by-case basis. The FISC is authorized to allow up to two “hops.” The government may renew these orders every 180 days. Protects Americans’ Privacy: The bill codifies current minimization procedures, requiring the government to adopt procedures that are reasonably designed to minimize the retention and prohibit the dissemination of nonpublic information about Americans. It also clarifies the existing provision in the FISA Amendments Act against reverse targeting and reiterates Congress’ intent in protecting the communications of Americans. Additionally, it prohibits the government from using unlawfully obtained information about Americans acquired outside the scope of court-approved targeting and minimization procedures. Ensures Robust Oversight of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill increases oversight of our intelligence-gathering programs by providing for judicial review of minimization procedures for the production of tangible things, such as emails and phone calls. Increases Transparency of Intelligence-Gathering Programs: The bill creates a panel of legal experts to help ensure the FISA court adequately considers privacy concerns and Constitutional rights of Americans and also requires the Attorney General to conduct a declassification review of each decision, order, or opinion of the FISA court that includes a significant construction or interpretation of the law. The bill also requires the government to disclose the number of requests made for call detail records under the new collection program and requires the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts to publicly report annually the number of FISA orders issued, modified, or denied by the FISC. Allows American Tech Companies to Disclose FISA Orders: The Committee today approved an amendment offered by Congresswoman Suzan DelBene (D-Wa.), Chairman Goodlatte, and Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner to allow companies to semi-annually publicly report requests for information they receive under FISA and National Security Letter authorities. This amendment codifies the Justice Department’s settlement with several companies earlier this year while making additional modifications to allow for even greater transparency to the American people about their privacy and the extent of the intelligence community’s work, while protecting national security.
05.07.2014	The House of Representatives today approved by a vote of 250-168 a resolution (H.Res. 565) authored by Congressman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. Over a year has passed since the public first learned about the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups and today no one has yet been held accountable for these apparent criminal actions. Under current law, the Attorney General is required to appoint a Special Counsel when he or she determines that the criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted. Specifically, the Attorney General is required to appoint a Special Counsel when the investigation or prosecution of that person or matter by a United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances, and when under the circumstances it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter. In light of this, the removal of the IRS investigation from the normal process at the Justice Department is warranted and the appointment of a Special Counsel by the Attorney General is in the public’s best interest for several reasons. First, there is an apparent conflict of interest in the current investigation since Attorney General Holder appointed a Justice Department attorney who donated thousands of dollars to President Obama’s presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee to lead the investigation. Second, over the last several months Obama Administration officials, including the President himself, have undermined the integrity of the Justice Department’s investigation by publicly judging the outcome of the investigation before the investigation was completed. And third, further investigation of the matter is warranted due to the apparent criminal activity by Lois Lerner, as outlined by the Ways and Means referral letter to Attorney General Holder, and the ongoing disclosure of internal communications showing potentially unlawful conduct by Executive Branch personnel. Chairman Goodlatte: “Attorney General Holder’s appointment of a loyal Democratic donor to spearhead the investigation of the IRS’s political targeting scandal, as well as the Administration’s repeated efforts to undermine the investigation, make a mockery of our justice system and show the Administration’s lack of desire to get to the bottom of this scandal. There’s a clear conflict of interest in the current sham of an investigation and a Special Counsel is needed so that Americans can be confident of the process and the conclusions reached by the investigators. I am pleased the House approved this resolution today and I urge the Attorney General to quickly appoint a Special Counsel so that we can hold those accountable for this political plan to silence the voices of groups representing millions of Americans.”
05.06.2014	The House of Representatives passed the strongly bipartisan H.R. 4292, the Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act by a vote of 388-4. By making a change to the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, this legislation strengthens the ability of U.S. museums and schools to borrow foreign government-owned artwork and cultural artifacts. The bill was approved by the House Judiciary Committee on April 2, 2014. H.R. 4292 would revive foreign borrowing and encourage foreign governments to loan portions of their collections to museums and galleries in the United States for public viewing. The ability of U.S. institutions consistently to produce first-class exhibitions depends in large part on assuring foreign governments that their loans will not subject them to litigation in U.S. courts. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, bill sponsor Congressman Steve Chabot (R-Ohio), and co-sponsors House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.) and Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) praised the bill’s passage and issued the following joint statement: “Due to the interpretation of overlapping federal statutes by federal courts, American universities and museums are too often denied the opportunity to borrow foreign government-owned artwork and cultural artifacts for temporary display. Today, much-needed bipartisan legislation passed the House that removes these barriers, increases access to foreign art in the United States and fosters a culture of learning and creativity. This legislation will make foreign artwork and artifacts more accessible to the public to view, study and appreciate in American schools and museums. We are pleased that the House has reaffirmed its longstanding appreciation of the arts and the cultural exchange of ideas.” Background: Currently, court decisions interpreting the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act (FSIA) discourage foreign governments from lending government-owned artwork and objects of cultural significance to U.S. museums and schools for temporary exhibit or display. Foreign governments are discouraged by the possibility of litigation in U.S. courts from which they would otherwise be immune. As a result, the ability of U.S. museums and schools to borrow works of art and objects of cultural significance owned by foreign governments has been seriously curtailed in recent years. The Foreign Cultural Exchange Jurisdictional Immunity Clarification Act fixes this problem by making a narrowly-tailored change to FSIA. This change will make it easier for U.S. museums and educational institutions to borrow works of art and other objects from abroad, increasing Americans’ opportunities for cultural and educational development.
05.05.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released a statement today regarding China’s recent decision to lift the ban on imports of Virginia poultry and poultry products. Congressman Goodlatte and others have worked since the ban was put into place in July 2007 to reverse this policy. “China’s reversal of the ban on Virginia’s poultry products is long overdue. Since the inception of the ban in 2007, I have pressured China to reconsider this policy that has cost the Commonwealth millions of dollars in lost export opportunities and countless jobs across the industry. Agriculture is the largest industry in Virginia, with poultry ranking as the top commodity. The poultry industry employs thousands of workers in the Sixth District alone. “American agriculture is dependent on access to global markets and a vibrant trade policy. Bans on products from individual states do very little to foster a stronger trade relationship. I hope that lifting this ban will help the Commonwealth to build additional trade opportunities for more of Virginia’s finest products.”
05.05.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte today announced that on Wednesday, May 7 at 1:00 p.m., the House Judiciary Committee will markup the USA FREEDOM Act (H.R. 3361), legislation introduced by Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisc.) to reform our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). At the markup, an amendment in the nature of a substitute will be offered by Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner on behalf of House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte, Ranking Member John Conyers (D-Mich.), Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Bobby Scott (D-Va.), Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), and Congressman Randy Forbes (R-Va.). This bipartisan substitute amendment protects Americans’ civil liberties while maintaining a workable framework for intelligence officials to keep us safe from foreign enemies who wish us harm. Among its many provisions, the substitute amendment prohibits bulk collection under Section 215 of the PATRIOT Act (Section 501 of FISA), prohibits bulk collection under the FISA Pen Register/Trap and Trace statute (Section 402 of FISA) and National Security Letter statutes, authorizes the government to acquire telephone records stored by telephone providers but only with prior approval from the FISA Court on a case-by-case basis, increases privacy protections at the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court (FISC), and clarifies privacy protections for Americans under Section 702 of the FISA Amendments Act. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Goodlatte, Ranking Member Conyers, Crime Subcommittee Chairman Sensenbrenner, Crime Subcommittee Ranking Member Scott, Congressman Nadler, and Congressman Forbes issued the statement below in anticipation of Wednesday’s markup. “As the Committee of primary jurisdiction, we have conducted robust oversight of the intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA and have come to the conclusion that these programs are in need of reform to protect our privacy, including prohibiting bulk collection under Section 215. Over the past several months, we have worked together across party lines and with the Administration and have reached a bipartisan solution that includes real protections for Americans’ civil liberties, robust oversight, and additional transparency, while preserving our ability to protect America’s national security. We look forward to taking up this legislation on Wednesday and continuing to work with House leaders to reform these programs.” Background: Over the past year, the House Judiciary Committee has conducted aggressive oversight of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under FISA. In July 2013, the Committee held a public hearing to examine the statutory authorities that govern certain surveillance programs operated under FISA, in which the Committee heard from officials from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), the National Security Agency (NSA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and from civil liberties groups. In September 2013, the Committee also held a classified hearing where members of the House Judiciary Committee were afforded the opportunity to further probe government officials from the DOJ, the ODNI, the NSA, and the FBI about our nation’s surveillance programs. And in February 2014, the Committee held a comprehensive hearing to examine the various recommendations to reform or end these programs made by President Obama, the President’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies, and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board.
05.02.2014	Congressman Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) today introduced a resolution (H.Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric Holder to appoint a Special Counsel to investigate the Internal Revenue Service’s (IRS) targeting of conservative groups. Earlier this year, Attorney General Holder appointed a Justice Department attorney who donated thousands of dollars to President Obama’s presidential campaign and the Democratic National Committee to spearhead the investigation. Additionally, over the last several months the Administration, including President Obama himself, has publicly undermined the integrity of the Justice Department’s investigation. In light of this conflict of interest, the apparent criminal activity by Lois Lerner outlined by the Ways and Means Committee’s referral letter to DOJ, and the ongoing disclosure of internal communications showing potentially unlawful conduct by Executive Branch personnel, the removal of the investigation from the normal process is warranted and the appointment of a Special Counsel is in the public’s best interest. Original cosponsors of the resolution include House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-Va.), Oversight and Government Reform Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.), Ways and Means Chairman Dave Camp (R-Mich.), Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah), and Congressman Charles Boustany (R-La.). Below are statements from Rep. Jim Jordan and the six original cosponsors on today’s introduction of the resolution. Rep. Jim Jordan: “We need this Special Counsel to help us get to the truth because the so-called investigation by the Justice Department has been a joke. The current investigation has no credibility because it is being headed by a maxed-out donor who is financially invested in the President’s success. “The Attorney General says he won’t share any information with Congress about the investigation, but looked the other way when information was leaked to the media signaling that no one would face criminal charges. This resolution calls for a real investigation by an unbiased investigator to get to the truth and hold those responsible for this illegal targeting accountable for their actions.” Chairman Goodlatte: “Over a year has passed since we first learned that the IRS had been singling out certain conservative groups for further review as they applied for tax exempt status and today no one has yet been held accountable for this political plan to silence the voices of groups representing millions of Americans. Conservative groups across the nation, including groups in the Sixth District of Virginia, were impacted by this targeting, resulting in lengthy paperwork requirements, overly burdensome information requests, and lengthy, unwarranted delays in their applications. “I find it disturbing that Attorney General Holder has appointed a political supporter and donor of President Obama’s presidential campaign to lead the effort to investigate this scandal and that the President and Administration officials have publicly undermined the investigation on multiple occasions. These actions have created a conflict of interest which has undermined both the integrity of the investigation and the American people’s confidence in the Justice Department’s ability to get to the bottom of this scandal without spinning or covering up the facts. To restore Americans’ trust in the investigation and hold those accountable for targeting Americans for their political beliefs, Attorney General Holder should immediately appoint an independent Special Counsel to probe this unsettling issue.” Chairman Issa: “Congressional investigations into the IRS targeting scandal have uncovered evidence of serious criminal activity, which must be resolved according to the law. Unfortunately, the Department of Justice’s current investigation has lost credibility and public confidence. Appointing a Special Counsel is a necessary step to restore impartiality to a case that requires it. The person Attorney General Holder appoints must be someone beyond the Administration’s own political circle, whose professional independence and political disinterest is beyond reproach.” Chairman Camp: “After almost a year of investigating the IRS’s targeting of conservative groups, the Ways and Means Committee found that Lois Lerner likely violated multiple criminal statutes. The Department of Justice has a duty to pursue the wrongdoing the Committee laid out in its criminal referral letter. We must hold the IRS accountable so this powerful agency cannot be used as a tool to target and harass Americans for their political beliefs. I have serious concerns that the Department of Justice has brushed aside this investigation and will not pursue Lerner for the wrongdoing she committed. Therefore, DOJ must appoint a Special Counsel, so we can have an independent review of what really happened at the IRS.” Rep. Gowdy: “Current law provides Special Counsel should be appointed in extraordinary cases where it serves the public interest. I cannot think of anything more extraordinary than targeting Americans simply for having a certain ideology, and it is most assuredly in the public interest to protect our freedom of speech. “Americans need to have confidence in not only the result of the investigation, but also the process, and Ms. Bosserman’s conclusions are going to be judged against the backdrop of her political activism – that’s just a fact. Moreover the President himself, for whom the Attorney General works and to whom Ms. Bosserman made generous donations, prejudged the outcome of the investigation by concluding there was not a ‘smidgen of corruption.’ The Attorney General has the opportunity to ensure the integrity of this investigation and appoint someone from outside the DOJ. Truly independent prosecutors do not take their marching orders from Presidents, governors or anyone else except Lady Justice. Americans deserve no less.” Rep. Chaffetz: “The DOJ has shown it’s unwillingness to take this investigation seriously. Given the behavior uncovered at the IRS – such as political targeting and refusal to comply with subpoenas – those responsible must be held accountable. A Special Counsel is the only way to ensure a thorough, nonpartisan investigation occurs and the American people can be presented with the truth.” Rep. Boustany: “It’s time for the federal government to find answers on Lois Lerner and the Internal Revenue Service’s role in targeting conservative nonprofit groups. This resolution calls on the Attorney General to put the law above all else, including his own politics. That’s a simple ask for the most senior law enforcement official in the nation.” Background: Under current law, the Attorney General is able to appoint a Special Counsel when he or she determines that the criminal investigation of a person or matter is warranted and that the investigation or prosecution of that person or matter by a United States Attorney’s Office or litigating Division of the Department of Justice would present a conflict of interest for the Department or other extraordinary circumstances. Additionally, the Attorney General is able to appoint a Special Counsel when under the circumstances it would be in the public interest to appoint an outside Special Counsel to assume responsibility for the matter.
01.17.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte issued the statement below following President Obama’s speech in which he outlined potential reforms to some of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs operated under the Foreign Surveillance Intelligence Act (FISA): “I am glad the President has finally acknowledged what I and many others concluded long ago, namely, that the section 215 bulk telephone data collection program is in need of significant reform in order to restore the trust of the American people and to protect Americans’ civil liberties. While I agree that the government storage of this information is one real concern that needs to be addressed, there are many others. In addition, third party storage itself is a very difficult proposal that raises additional concerns. “The House Judiciary Committee has primary jurisdiction over the legal framework of these programs and has conducted aggressive oversight on this issue. While we await the additional recommendations the President has promised from the national security agencies by March 28th, the Committee plans to move forward and hold a hearing in the coming weeks on the recommendations made by President Obama today as well as those made by the President’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies and the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. We must ensure our nation’s intelligence collection programs include real protections for Americans’ civil liberties, robust oversight, and additional transparency. “I look forward to working with Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, the Administration, our national security agencies, and civil liberties advocates, among others, to reform these programs so that they restore the trust of the American people, protect Americans’ civil liberties, and continue to protect Americans from further acts of terror.” Background: Chairman Goodlatte met with President Obama and a select group of members of Congress and Senators a week ago, as well as last August, to discuss reforms to our nation’s foreign surveillance programs. In addition, the House Judiciary Committee has closely examined this issue over the past several months. In July 2013, the Committee held a public hearing to examine the statutory authorities that govern certain surveillance programs operated under FISA, in which the Committee heard from officials from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), the National Security Agency (NSA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and from civil liberties groups. In September 2013, the Committee also held a classified hearing where members of the House Judiciary Committee were afforded the opportunity to further probe government officials from the DOJ, the ODNI, the NSA, and the FBI about our nation’s surveillance programs. ###
01.15.2014	The House Judiciary Committee approved H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act by a vote of 22-12. The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act was introduced by Congressman Chris Smith (R-N.J.). For over 30 years, a patchwork of policies regulated federal funding for abortion. Amendments have been added to various appropriations bills to prohibit the federal funding of abortions through the programs funded by those appropriations bills. H.R. 7, with the exception of a few narrow categories accepted for many years, provides that the federal government should not make taxpayers pay for abortions or insurance coverage that includes abortions. House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte praised today’s Committee vote: “The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act frees taxpayers from subsidizing the egregious practice of abortion and insurance coverage that includes abortion. The government has overstepped its authority and failed to protect its citizens, chiefly by forcing American taxpayers to fund the killing of other innocent Americans in the womb – with no regard for the majority of taxpayers who do not support federally funding the practice of abortion. I am glad to report that the Committee passed this vital piece of legislation to effectively prohibit the federal funding of elective abortions.” The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act would make permanent the policies previously passed on a case-by-case basis, including: • The Hyde amendment, which prohibits funding for elective abortion coverage through any program funded through the annual Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act; • The Smith FEHBP amendment, which prohibits funding for health plans that include elective abortion coverage for federal employees; • The Dornan amendment, which prohibits use of congressionally appropriated funds for abortions in the District of Columbia; and • Other policies such as the restrictions on elective abortion funding through the Peace Corps and Federal prisons. ###
01.11.2014	Congressman Bob Goodlatte released this statement following the passing of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon: “I am saddened by the loss of former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, a tireless proponent of strengthening the security of Israel and building a lasting peace in the tumultuous region. As we reflect on his passing, it also serves as a reminder that while the quest for peace is daunting, we must remain steadfast in our pursuit of it and a strong relationship with Israel, who remains our greatest ally in the Middle East. My prayers are with his family during this difficult time as well as the nation of Israel.” ###
01.09.2014	House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte and other members of the House of Representatives and Senate today met with President Obama to discuss possible reforms to some of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs. This meeting follows the recent recommendations made by the President’s Review Group on Intelligence and Communications Technologies to significantly limit our foreign surveillance programs. Below is a statement from Chairman Goodlatte following today’s meeting: “Over the course of the past several months, I have urged President Obama to bring more transparency to the National Security Agency’s intelligence-gathering programs in order to regain the trust of the American people. In particular, if the President believes we need a bulk collection program of telephone data, then he needs to break his silence and clearly explain to the American people why it is needed for our national security. The President has unique information about the merits of these programs and the extent of their usefulness. This information is critical to informing Congress on how far to go in reforming the programs. Americans’ civil liberties are at stake in this debate. “With each new revelation of the scope of these programs, it’s increasingly clear that we need to take legislative action to reform some of our nation’s intelligence-gathering programs to ensure that they adequately protect Americans’ civil liberties and operate in a sensible manner. We also need to ensure the laws are clear so that the U.S. tech industry is not disadvantaged vis-à-vis their foreign competitors. The House Judiciary Committee, which has primary jurisdiction over the legal framework of these programs, has conducted aggressive oversight on this issue and will be instrumental to reforming the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. I am committed to working with members of Congress and Senators from both political parties, House leaders, and President Obama to ensure our nation’s intelligence collection programs include real protections for Americans’ civil liberties, robust oversight, and additional transparency.” Background: Chairman Goodlatte previously met with President Obama last August to discuss our foreign surveillance programs and the House Judiciary Committee has closely examined this issue over the past several months. In July 2013, the Committee held a public hearing to examine the statutory authorities that govern certain surveillance programs operated under FISA, in which the Committee heard from officials from the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), the National Security Agency (NSA), the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and from civil liberties groups. In September, the Committee also held a classified hearing where members of the House Judiciary Committee were afforded the opportunity to further probe government officials from the DOJ, the ODNI, the NSA, and the FBI about our nation’s surveillance programs. ###
01.09.2014	Congressmen Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) and David Scott (D-GA) released the following statement after sending a letter to leaders of the Farm Bill Conference Committee reminding them of the House of Representatives’ overwhelming rejection of supply management provisions: “The House of Representatives resounding rejection of supply management provisions in the dairy title of the Farm Bill speaks loud and clear,” said Rep. Bob Goodlatte. “More than 140 diverse groups have joined the 291 House Members, including 95 Democrats, in voicing their opposition to supply management. A supply control program that will directly intervene in markets and increase milk prices will ultimately hurt dairy producers and consumers. As the Conferees continue their work, I urge them to remember the House vote and adopt the House-passed Goodlatte-Scott amendment as part of the final Farm Bill.” “Unfortunately the media is portraying the current dairy policy debate as a struggle solely between Speaker Boehner and Ranking Member Peterson,” said Rep. David Scott. “Nothing could be further from the truth. The overwhelming bipartisan vote count on the Goodlatte-Scott amendment, which passed 291-135 with 95 Democratic votes, was a clear and strong statement of the will of the entire House on this issue. To that end, Farm Bill conferees should honor the House vote and insist on inclusion of the Goodlatte-Scott amendment in the final conference report on the Farm Bill. The Goodlatte-Scott amendment as embodied in the House dairy title of the Farm Bill represents bipartisan compromise that protects dairy farmers as well as restaurants, food processors, grocery stores and most importantly consumers.” Click here for a PDF version of the letter to leaders of the Farm Bill Conference Committee. ###
